03.22.2018	Congressman Alex Mooney Statement on Government Funding Bill Today, The House of Representatives passed H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act. Congressman Alex Mooney voted against the bill and released the following statement: “One reason I voted against the Omnibus spending bill is it adds over $1 trillion to the national debt. Representatives were given less than 24 hours to read an over 2,200-page bill. This bill was written behind closed doors without the type of input Americans expect and deserve from their Representatives. Yesterday, just before midnight, I personally attended the Rules Committee hearing to offer an amendment to the bill that would have eliminated funding for abortion provider Planned Parenthood. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected by the Rules Committee. My amendment, along with many others offered, were prevented from even receiving a vote on the House floor. I also oppose the anti-Second Amendment provision in the bill, known as “Fix NICS.” This provision allows unelected bureaucrats to revoke Second Amendment rights from citizens without due process guaranteed under the U.S. Constitution. Finally, this funding bill fails to deliver on the promises we made to voters. For example, this bill: Fails to fund President Trump’s Border Wall Fully funds grants that go to abortion provider Planned Parenthood Allows funding for sanctuary cities for illegal immigrants Neglects to replace or reduce Obamacare’s burdensome regulations Fails to include concealed reciprocity for law abiding Americans Last year, I voted for all 12 appropriations bills to fully fund government for the entire year. Those bills went through an open and transparent process and reflect the values of West Virginians”, said Congressman Mooney. ###
03.08.2018	Congressman Mooney Praises Sugar Grove Naval Site Announcement Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) announced his support for a 95-bed substance abuse treatment facility to be located at the former U.S. Sugar Grove Naval Base in Pendleton County. “Since the decision to close Sugar Grove Naval Base, I have worked with federal agencies, state and local officials to transition this property to an entity that will be an asset to Pendleton County and will provide jobs to the region. As I travel across West Virginia I am continually reminded of the need for more treatment options for addicts. I am thankful that Meridian Behavioral Health Systems and The Gersh Academy are partnering to bring these treatment services to my District and I look forward to the seeing positive impact this will have on people’s lives and the local economy”, said Congressman Mooney. ###
03.08.2018	Congressman Mooney Praises Sugar Grove Naval Site Announcement Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) announced his support for a 95-bed substance abuse treatment facility to be located at the former U.S. Sugar Grove Naval Base in Pendleton County. “Since the decision to close Sugar Grove Naval Base, I have worked with federal agencies, state and local officials to transition this property to an entity that will be an asset to Pendleton County and will provide jobs to the region. As I travel across West Virginia I am continually reminded of the need for more treatment options for addicts. I am thankful that Meridian Behavioral Health Systems and The Gersh Academy are partnering to bring these treatment services to my District and I look forward to the seeing positive impact this will have on people’s lives and the local economy”, said Congressman Mooney. ###
03.06.2018	Congressman Mooney Announces March Staff Mobile Office Hours Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) announced his mobile office hours for the month of March. Throughout the Second District, members of Congressman Mooney's staff will be making stops in each county to meet with constituents who may be having problems with a federal agency. We ask that constituents bring copies of documentation related to their issues. "Helping my constituents cut through the massive red tape of federal bureaucracies is a top priority of mine and my staff. Although I have district offices in Charleston and Martinsburg, I want to make it as easy as possible for constituents to contact my office for assistance,” said Congressman Mooney. Tuesday, March 6 11 a.m. to 12 Noon Hardy County Court House 204 Washington Street Moorefield, W.Va. 26836 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Glasgow Public Library 129 4th Ave. Glasgow, W.Va. 25086 Wednesday, March 7 11 a.m. to 12 Noon Charles Town Library 200 E. Washington Street Charles Town, W.Va. 25414 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Hurricane Public Library 4219 State Rt. 34 Hurricane, W.Va. 25526 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. Nitro Public Library 1700 Park Ave Nitro, W.Va. 25143 Thursday, March 8 11 a.m. to Noon Buckhannon City Hall 70 East Main Street Buckhannon, W.Va. 26201 3-4 p.m. Roane County Courthouse/ County Commission Chambers 200 Main Street Spencer, W. Va. 25276 Monday, March 12 11 a.m. to Noon Calhoun County Courthouse/ Little Courtroom 363 Main Street Grantsville, W. Va. 26147 Tuesday, March 13 11.00 a.m. to Noon Hampshire County Library 153 West Main Street Romney, W.Va. 26757 1-2 p.m. Capon Bridge Public Library 2987 Northwestern Pike (Rt. 50) Capon Bridge, W.Va. 26711 1:30 – 2:30 p.m. Poca Public Library 2858 Charleston Rd Poca, W.Va. 25159 Wednesday, March 14 11 a.m. to Noon Morgan County Court House 77 Fairfax Street Berkeley Springs, W.Va. 25411 12:30- 1:30 p.m. Clay County Courthouse/County Commission Chambers 246 Main Street Clay, W. Va. 25043 1- 2 p.m. Hedgesville Public Library 207 North Mary Street Hedgesville, W.Va. 25427 Friday, March 16 10-11 a.m. St Albans Library 602 4th Street St Albans, W.Va. 25177 Monday, March 19 11.30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Lewis County Courthouse/ County Commission Chambers 110 Center Avenue Weston, W.Va. 26452 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Town of Jane Lew/ Town Council Chambers 6197 Main Street Jane Lew, W.Va. 26378 Tuesday, March 20 11 a.m. to Noon Pendleton County Court House 100 South Main Street Franklin, W.Va. 26807 Noon to 1 p.m. Dora B. Woodyard Memorial Library 411 Mulberry Street Elizabeth, W. Va. 26143 3-4 p.m. Ravenswood City Hall 212 Walnut Street Ravenswood, W.Va. 26164 Wednesday, March 21 10-11 a.m. Randolph County Senior Center Harman, W.Va. 26270 Noon to 1 p.m. Ripley Library 208 N Church Street Ripley, W.Va. 25271 Noon to 1:00 p.m. 1 5th Street Randolph County Senior Center Elkins, W.Va. 26270 Wednesday, March 28 1-2 p.m. Belle City Hall 1100 E Dupont Ave. Belle, W.Va. 25015 Thursday, March 29 Noon to 1 p.m. Martinsburg Public Library 101 W. King Street Martinsburg, W.Va. 25401 ###
02.20.2018	Congressman Mooney Announces Funding for YMCA Initiative in Montgomery Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Alex X. Mooney announced $275,000.00 in grant funding from the Appalachian Regional Commission to the YMCA of Kanawha Valley. This grant will allow the YMCA of Kanawha Valley to purchase new equipment and pay their start-up staffing cost for the new YMCA facility to be established at the Baisi Athletic Center in Montgomery, WV. “This grant is vitally important in helping the City of Montgomery’s efforts in revitalizing their community. With this significant investment from the ARC, the YMCA of Kanawha Valley and its partners will continue to support a productive workforce and help create a healthier and more prosperous region. I am proud to support this initiative,” said Rep. Mooney. ###
02.08.2018	Congressman Mooney Welcomes More than $4M For Infrastructure Projects Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) welcomed $4,244,361.00 in funding from the Community Development Block Grant Program to critical infrastructure projects in the Second Congressional District. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development provides Community Development Block Grant funds to the state. Rep. Mooney supported this funding in the House of Representatives. “These critical infrastructure projects are vital to economic growth in West Virginia. Assuring that West Virginians have access to basic infrastructure, such as potable water and reliable broadband is a priority of mine and I am happy to help make these projects become a reality”, said Rep. Mooney. “This award is a giant step for us. We are putting out a request for proposals to facilitate the solicitation of consultants who can assist us in moving forward and we thank Congressman Mooney for his support,” said Clay County Commissioner Jerry Linkinogger. “From an EDA perspective, Hampshire County’s strategic approach to sustainable affordable broadband expansion will facilitate opportunity for economic development and job creation in all sectors of industry with focus in technology and manufacturing. Reliable broadband makes Hampshire competitive and equalizes our ability to market and recruit in these sectors,” said Hampshire County Economic Development Authority Director Eileen Johnson. Awards listed below: Upshur County Commission, $1,216,566 The project will make improvements to the Elkins Road PSD’s existing water distribution system and extend water service to 82 households. Includes upgrade of two water tanks, replacement of 14 deteriorated waterlines, addition of two booster stations, and emergency generators at four booster stations. Braxton County Commission, $800,000 This project will extend service and provide potable water to 39 new customers in the Holly and Otter districts. Will install 7.5 miles of waterline, 39 meters, and related components. Will also provide additional fire protection. Putnam County Commission, $1,500,000 This project will provide potable water to approximately 40 residences along Manila Ridge in Putnam County. This is Phase 2 of the project to extend water service to the Jackson County line with the construction of nearly 38,000 linear feet of new water lines. Clay County Commission (Regional Grant), $125,000 This $125,000 project is to develop a broadband feasibility and business plan for Calhoun, Clay and Roane counties. This planning project promotes a regional approach to provide a roadmap to provide broadband throughout the three counties, whether it is middle mile, broadband to the home, fiber optics, wireless or white space. (Congressman Mooney provided a letter of support to help secure this grant.)Hampshire County Commission, $402,795 This project will expand the county-owned backbone fiber to bring broadband into eastern Hampshire County and the Capon Bridge municipal area. A feasibility study showed that the eastern end of the county has significant small to mid-sized business potential because of its proximity to Washington D.C., and other Virginia metro areas. (Congressman Mooney provided a letter of support to help secure this grant.) Jackson County Commission, $125,000 The Jackson County Commission will use this grant to implement infrastructure improvements and equipment installation to serve the Sandyville area with broadband internet connectivity. Morgan County Commission, $75,000This planning project will develop a plan to make affordable high-speed broadband internet service available on a countywide basis utilizing the county’s existing tower structures and radio buildings. (Congressman Mooney provided a letter of support to help secure this grant.) ###
01.31.2018	Congressman Alex X. Mooney Statement on State of the Union Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement in reaction to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Donald Trump outlined a conservative agenda to make America safer and stronger. I remain committed to helping President Trump implement our shared agenda to make America prosper again. As I travel across West Virginia, I hear tremendous support for President Trump. Due to recently enacted tax cuts, hard-working West Virginia taxpayers are seeing more money in their paychecks. The coal industry is finally beginning to recover after eight years of attacks from former President Barack Obama and former Speaker Nancy Pelosi. I was particularly pleased to hear about President Trump’s bold plan to rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. Everywhere I travel, I see the need for better roads, bridges and infrastructure. I will continue fighting ensure that West Virginia projects like finishing Corridor H, expanding the runway at Yeager Airport and broadband access are included in the President’s infrastructure plan. Our country continues to face daunting challenges at home and abroad and I am glad that we have a strong leader like President Donald Trump at the helm to guide our nation back to strength and prosperity”, said Rep. Mooney. ###
01.31.2018	Congressman Alex Mooney Announces more than $9.9 Million for Rural Development Projects Washington, D.C. – Today Representative Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) announced $9,985,693.00 in loan and grant funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). “Assuring that local businesses and governments have access to federal resources is a top priority of mine. I am happy to fight and help secure funds that are vital to economic development in West Virginia. As President Trump reveals his infrastructure plans, I look forward to announcing even more funding in the near future,” said Rep. Mooney. Individual awards listed below: Berkeley County: $30,605.00- Grant to Eastern Panhandle Regional Planning & Developmental Council for a Strategic Business Study for the Eastern West Virginia Regional Airport in rural Berkeley County located in Martinsburg, WV. This business study will develop options for the airport in regards to expansion and market research to provide more jobs for the area. Braxton County: $22,000.00- Grant to the Town of Burnsville to conduct a study of their entire sanitary sewer system to identify the areas of concern and determine alternatives to correct the issues. Jackson County: $740,000.00- Loan to Elizabeth Way Limited Partnership to construct a 32 unit elderly apartment complex in Ripley, WV. $9,193,088.00- Loan to Jamarco LLC will be used for the business acquisition of Valley, Inc., a stone yard and maritime center in Millwood, WV. The project includes the purchase of equipment, machinery, working capital and loan fees. ###
12.19.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney Plans to Vote for Tax Cuts for all Americans Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) intends to vote for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to deliver tax cuts for all West Virginians. He released the following statement: “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act means an average family of four will receive a $2,059 tax cut—that means more money in the pockets of all Americans. The bill doubles the standard deduction for all taxpayers, meaning that a couple’s first $24,000 of income will be tax free. Furthermore, the bill doubles the child tax credit to $2,000. The bill also reduces taxes on small businesses (from 35% to 25%) and will encourage job growth in West Virginia. President Donald Trump has been a true leader on delivering tax relief for all Americans and I am looking forward to continuing to work with him to create more jobs and to keep our economy growing. Finally, this bill will reverse the flow of jobs leaving our country by reducing the corporate tax from 35% to 21%, which will make us again competitive with the rest of world. Therefore, I will be voting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act today”, said Rep. Mooney. ###
12.07.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney Votes to Protect the Second Amendment Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) voted in favor of H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act to ensure that law abiding gun owners can transport their weapons across state lines. Congressman Mooney is also a cosponsor of the bill and released the following statement: “When I was elected to serve the people of the Second District of West Virginia, I made a promise to my constituents that I would protect their Second Amendment rights. Today’s vote is a fulfilment of that promise. For too long, law abiding gun owners have had their constitutional right to keep and bear arms hindered by government bureaucrats. This is a commonsense bill would implement concealed carry reciprocity in XX states. As a gun owner, right-to-carry permit holder, and recipient of a lifetime A+ NRA rating, I am fighting every day to protect our Second Amendment rights from Democratic attempts to pass ideological gun-control policies that make law-abiding citizens less free and less safe. The Constitution is clear that “…the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” ###
11.29.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney Names Chad Story as District Director Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) has announced a new addition to his senior staff. Chad Story has been named District Director and will based out of the Congressman’s Charleston district office. He will replace Fred Joseph who is retiring at the end of November. A lifelong West Virginian, Mr. Story was born and raised in Logan County. Growing up in the southern coalfields, his grandfather and uncles were all coal miners. He graduated from Man High School and attended Southern West Virginia Community & Technical College where he served as president of the student body. He is a graduate of West Virginia State University in Institute, West Virginia in 2012 with a degree in history. He is pursuing a degree in Educational Leadership at American Public University Systems in Charles Town, West Virginia. Devoted to serving others, Chad Story has been a case manager for adults and children with developmental disabilities and a special education teacher. Most recently, he has served as a district staffer for Congressman Evan Jenkins (WV-3) where he focused on economic development, federal grants and constituent services for southern West Virginia. “Chad’s extensive district operation experience and his deep West Virginia roots makes him a great choice to lead my district team. Chad is devoted to our state and is committed to providing quality constituent services to the Second Congressional District,” said Rep. Mooney. “I am excited for this new experience and to be leading a great district team. Our goal is very simple and that is to provide the best constituents services as possible to the people of the Second District,” Story said. “West Virginia is my home and I want to do my part to see it prosper and grow. I am honored that Congressman Mooney has given me this opportunity to serve.” Story serves on the Board of Directors for Facing Hunger Food Bank and the Logan County Child Advocacy Center; he is vice president of the Man Lions Club and a member of the Iaeger Masonic Lodge #148. He lives in Charleston, West Virginia. ###
11.28.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Submits Statement Opposing Clean Power Plan Charleston, WV – Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) submitted the following testimony at the Environmental Protection Agency public hearing in Charleston regarding the Clean Power Plan: “I am pleased to submit my testimony to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding my support for the agency’s proposed repeal of the so-called Clean Power Plan rule. When the EPA finalized these rules in 2015, they did irreparable damage to West Virginia’s economy. Due to the pending plan, power plants that were once the economic driver of communities across our great state have been shuttered. Proposed plants that were to expand the energy infrastructure throughout the Appalachian Region never came to fruition. For nearly three years, West Virginian workers have had a cloud of uncertainty hanging over their heads due to the pending implementation of the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan. Fortunately, our government’s system of checks and balances prevented the plan from reaching fruition. The U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay on the enforcement of this proposed regulation in 2016 after 27 states (including West Virginia), 24 trade associations, 37 rural electric co-ops and three labor unions sued the EPA. Their lawsuit emphasized a range of legal and technical concerns, while also demonstrating the regulation went further than the law allowed. This is yet again another Obama era overreach that put the American economy at a disadvantage and destroyed jobs. I want to take this opportunity to thank EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and the EPA Regional Offices for conducting these public hearings. This is the proper procedure to review this regulation and, ultimately, to repeal it. I also want to thank President Trump for signing the Energy Independence Executive Order back in March, triggering the review of the Clean Power Plan and leading to this much-needed and transparent public hearing process. This is how government should operate and I commend the EPA for coming to my Congressional District to hear what West Virginians have to say about this crippling regulation. Former President Obama's plan is flawed and the regulation has done harm to the American economy and to the American worker. It is time to rid our economy of this uncertainty and pursue an energy policy that is pro-worker, allows the United States to be a leader in energy production and unlocks American ingenuity.” ###
11.16.2017	Congressman Mooney Praises Tax Cuts for West Virginia Families Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) voted for H.R. 1 - the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which will result in a $1,655 tax cut for the average family in West Virginia’s Second Congressional District. He released the following statement: “Today, I proudly voted for lower taxes for all hard-working West Virginia taxpayers. I share President Donald Trump’s commitment to creating more good paying jobs in our state and country. The current tax code is too confusing and in our tax reform plan most Americans will file their taxes on a postcard. This bill will grow our economy, encourage job creation and raise take-home pay. While Democrats have failed to offer any tax relief plans, the Republican majority in Congress ran on a plan to reform the tax code—and today we delivered a big win for the American people. I support President Trump in bringing much needed tax relief for West Virginia families and small businesses,” said Rep. Mooney. ###
11.15.2017	Congressman Alex Mooney Applauds Passage of Bill to Roll Back Obama Coal Regulations Washington, DC - Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed Congressman Mooney’s bill, H.R. 4289 to repeal a duplicative Obama-era regulation on coal mining. “President Donald Trump has renewed his commitment to reversing the damage done by former President Barack Obama’s War on Coal. The passage of this bill represents one part of our ongoing efforts to revitalize the coal industry and brings jobs back to West Virginia. Wall street regulators should not be responsible for monitoring or reporting mine safety conditions. The Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) already regulates coal mining. Due to Obama era Dodd- Frank regulations, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is tasked with regulating Wall Street and Financial Institutions is duplicating the work of the Department of Labor. Adding this duplicative disclosure requirement is unneeded and represents another hurdle Washington puts in the way of opening new mines and rebuilding the coal industry,” said Rep. Mooney. H.R. 4289 repeals Section 1503 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 1503 directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to promulgate rules requiring mining companies to disclose certain safety information in their quarterly and annual reports. This duplicative disclosure requirement is estimated to have increases compliance costs on the industry by well over $1 million annually. ###
11.02.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Statement on Tax Reform Legislation Washington, DC - Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following regarding the introduction of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “West Virginia taxpayers deserve a tax cut so that they can keep more of their hard-earned money. The plan released today will lower rates on taxpayers, including small businesses which are the back bone of West Virginia’s economy. As I have traveled all 17 counties of my district, I have heard from small business owners who are struggling to keep the doors open. They are desperate for tax relief so that they can continue to employ West Virginians. The introduction of the bill is only the beginning of the process. I will continue to work with President Donald Trump to promote lower taxes for all Americans and small businesses so the economy can continue to grow,” said Rep. Mooney. ###
10.11.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Praises Clean Power Plan Reversal Washington, DC- Today, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt announced he would reverse the job-killing so-called Clean Power Plan that threatened thousands of West Virginia jobs. Congressman Mooney released the following statement: “President Donald Trump continues to keep his promises to West Virginia by rolling back this Obama-era extreme environmental regulation. The so-called Clean Power Plan was a nightmare for the West Virginia coal industry and would increase home energy prices for American consumers. For eight years, former President Barack Obama waged an all-out war on coal and West Virginia values. As unemployment skyrocketed and coal mines closed, President Obama and his left-wing supporters focused on executing on his promise to bankrupt the coal industry. Thankfully, President Trump realizes that we can reduce burdensome regulations on energy production and protect our environment,” said Rep. Mooney.
10.05.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Votes for Fiscally Conservative Budget Washington, DC – Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) voted in favor of H. Con. Res. 71- the Building a Better America Budget resolution and released the following statement: “Today, I voted for the Building a Better America Budget (H. Con. Res. 71) because it represents the fiscally conservative principles that I promised my constituents I would represent. In addition to laying the groundwork for President Donald Trump’s tax reform plan, this budget balances the federal budget over 10 years and trims $6.5 billion in government spending. Our country cannot tax itself out of $20 trillion in debt—we have to make tough decisions and reduce the size of the federal government. This budget also provides a much needed $72.4 million increase in funding for our military to rebuild our national defense”, said Rep. Mooney.
10.03.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Praises Passage of Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) praised the passage of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “Today, I was proud to vote to end the horrific act of abortion after 20-weeks when science has proven an unborn fetus can feel pain. When I ran for Congress, I made a commitment to the people of the Second Congressional District of West Virginia that I would do everything in my power to defend the unborn. I continue to be guided by my faith and values and look forward to working with my colleagues to defend the innocent and give a voice to the voiceless,” said Rep. Mooney. Congressman Mooney has been a champion of pro-life issues while in Congress. He is the lead sponsor of the Life at Conception Act (H.R. 681). He has also cosponsored important pro-life legislation including: the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7), Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 37), The Defund Planned Parenthood Act (H.R. 354), End Trafficking of the Terminated Unborn Act (H.R. 524), and Conscience Protection Act (H.R. 644).
10.03.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Co-Sponsors Coal Miner Pension Fix Legislation Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) cosponsored the American Miners’ Pension Act, which will ensure that retired coal miners receive the pension benefits they earned. He released the following statement in reaction to the introduction of the bill: “More than 22,000 coal miners and their families rely on pension benefits to provide for their families. I am proud to support legislation that will provide certainty to these hard-working men and women. West Virginia coal miners risked their lives to power our entire country; we must act now to maintain the benefits they were promised. I am pleased to see this bi-partisan legislation introduced today that will support our coal miners, said Rep. Mooney.
09.14.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Praises Passage of The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act Washington, DC - Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement in response to the House of Representatives passing H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act: “I was proud to vote for the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act (H.R. 3354) because it fully funds the military, services for veterans, defunds Planned Parenthood and guts job-killing Obama-era regulations. For the first time in 11 years, the House of Representatives passed all 12 appropriations bill funding various departments. This is how the process should work. After days of amendments from all members, we crafted appropriations bills which advance conservative principles and properly funds government,” said Rep. Mooney.
09.11.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Announces Service Academy Nomination Process Washington, DC - Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) announced his process for nominating students in West Virginia’s Second Congressional District to our nation's Service Academies. “Nominating young people to serve in our nation’s Service Academies is one of the highest privileges of my office. Like my father who served in Vietnam, these young men and women are dedicating themselves to the cause of defending our freedoms. I hope West Virginia students from across the Second District will learn about the process and apply,” said Rep. Mooney. How to Apply? Application Deadline: October 31, 2017 Applicant must be graduating high school this spring or must have graduated high school and be within the age limits set forth by the institutions. Applicant must turn in a completed packet to be eligible for an interview and must have applied to one or more of the academies by the deadline established by such academies. Visit Mooney.house.gov and under the services tab select to request a nominations packet. The form must be printed off and mailed or emailed to Jon.Miller@mail.house.gov or mailed to 300 Foxcroft Avenue, Suite 102, Martinsburg, WV 25401 Questions? Jon Miller- Martinsburg District Office Jon.Miller@mail.house.gov (304) 264-8810
09.08.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Statement on Congress Raising the Debt Ceiling Washington, DC - Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement in responses to Congress raising the debt ceiling for an additional three months: “I voted against raising the debt limit because our national debt is already too high. West Virginian families have to balance their budgets each month and the federal government should do the same. I support and have voted for funding government at the appropriate levels after input from all elected representatives in the regular appropriations bills. Kicking the fiscal can down the road another three months is not a solution to our budget problems. Voters deserve a Congress that does a better job of finding solutions to our looming national debt crisis,” said Rep. Mooney
09.07.2017	Congressman Mooney Praises Funding for Yeager Airport Washington, DC – Congressman Alex Mooney released the follow statements in response to Yeager Airport receiving over $13 million in U.S. Department of Transportation grant funding for runway safety improvements: “Yeager airport is a critical hub for all of West Virginia and I am pleased that it will received much needed funding for runway safety improvements I have been working to secure these funds since the tragic landslide in 2015. I am proud to have Yeager Airport in my Congressional District and will continue working to ensure it continues to grow and serve all West Virginians , said Rep. Mooney.”
07.27.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Statement on Passage of The Make America Secure Appropriations Act Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing H.R. 3219, The Make America Secure Appropriations Act 2018: “The passage of the Make American Secure Appropriations Act will ensure that our military, law enforcement, Department of Veterans Affairs and other important agencies have the necessary funds to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. Specifically, I am glad the bill funds a wall along the Mexican border to help keep dangerous illegal immigrants out of our country. This bill also keeps our promise to those serving in the military and veterans. It provides the highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs, a nearly five percent increase over the previous year. The bill also funds the largest pay increase for active military personnel in over eight years,” said Rep. Mooney.
07.19.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Praises Passage of Bill to Delay Implementation of Obama Era Ozone Rule Washington, DC- Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing H.R. 806, The Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017: “Under former President Barack Obama, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pushed an out-of-control environmental agenda that included an air quality ozone standard that would have destroyed thousands of West Virginia jobs. I am proud to work with my colleagues in Congress and President Donald Trump to roll back the oppressive regulatory regime left behind by former President Obama. Despite the fact that since the 1980’s ozone and air pollution levels have been decreasing, the Obama EPA forced states to comply with multiple standards that were more stringent and impossible to implement. These unattainable standards would have led to millions of job losses across the country and would have especially devastated the energy industry in West Virginia,” said Rep. Mooney. The Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017 allows states to pursue cost-effective and practical implementation of EPA’s ozone standards. It also phases in implementation of the 2008 and 2015 ozone standards and extends the date for final designations under the 2015 standards. ###
06.29.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Praises Passage of Bills to Enforce Illegal Immigration Laws Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement regarding the House of Representatives passing The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004): “For too long, rogue jurisdictions have prevented the enforcement of federal immigration laws, becoming sanctuary cities for illegal immigrants. Law enforcement agencies should be permitted to partner with the federal government to remove illegal immigrants, who have committed crimes. I was pleased to vote for two bills that will return the rule of law to our country and increase penalties for deported felon illegal immigrants who return to our country and commit further crimes. President Donald Trump has my full support in his efforts to keep our country safe. Congress should put partisan politics aside and instead work to make American streets safe. Immigrants, who came to American legally, have built our nation into what it is today. My great-grandfather came from Ireland and my mother fled Communists Cuba in 1961. I believe that we can enforce our nation’s current immigration laws, while remaining true to our proud history as a nation of immigrants,” said Rep. Mooney. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) strengthens current laws to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004) enhances penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant who had previously been deported five times and had been convicted of multiple felonies.
06.23.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Statement on Flood Insurance Reform Bills Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) released the following statement regarding the House Financial Services Committee passing major flood reform legislation: “I was pleased to vote for H.R. 2874, the 21st Century Flood Reform Act, and six other bills aimed at ensuring the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) remains viable and available for those who need it most. The NFIP currently runs an annual deficit of $1.4 billion and is $24 billion dollars in the red to taxpayers. In its current form, it is not sustainable and taxpayers are on the hook. Furthermore, the current program encourages building in high-risk flood areas that put homeowners in danger. The 21st Century Flood Reform Act embraces free market reforms that will allow the private sector to give consumers real insurance choices and will get the program back on sound financial footing. The devastating floods in West Virginia in 2016 highlighted the importance of flood insurance for our state. I am proud to support this legislation and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure affordable flood insurance remains available to West Virginians,” said Rep. Mooney. The House Financial Services Committee advanced seven bills related to improving and reforming the National Flood Insurance Program. Those bills are; H.R. 1422, H.R. 1558, H.R. 2246, H.R. 2565, H.R. 2868, H.R. 2874, and H.R. 2875. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which provides insurance coverage to those at risk, is up for reauthorization in 2017. The NFIP serves approximately 5.1 million residential and commercial policyholders including approximately 18,000 in West Virginia.
06.08.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) Applauds Passage of Financial CHOICE Act Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) voted in favor of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act. This bill repeals many onerous Obama-era regulation that harm job creators and businesses. These regulations were originally enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Financial CHOICE Act passed the House by a vote of 233 to 186. “As I held roundtables across West Virginia, I heard from small business owners and job creators that Obama-era regulations make it harder for community banks to make loans to small businesses. Also, these Obama-era regulations make it more difficult for West Virginia families to obtain a home mortgage. The Financial CHOICE Act will remove power from out-of-touch Washington bureaucrats and return financial decision making to individual consumers and small community banks. I look forward to continuing to work with President Donald Trump to get our economy moving,” said Rep. Mooney. Congressman Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Mooney serves on the House Financial Services Committee. ###
05.04.2017	Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) Release Statement Regarding Passage of The American Health Care Act WASHINGTON D.C. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement regarding the passage of The American Health Care Act. “Today, I was proud to vote for the American Health Care Act. I pledged to voters in the Second District that I would vote to repeal and replace Obamacare and today I fulfilled that pledge. Obamacare is collapsing as insurance companies abandon the healthcare exchanges and insurance premiums continue to rise, hurting those who can least afford it. The American Health Care Act will repeal Obamacare once-and for-all and replace it with free-market solutions that will increase access to care and lower costs for all West Virginians. The American Health Care Act will get government out of the way and put patients back in charge of their healthcare decisions. I will continue to fight for quality and affordable health care for all West Virginians. I look forward to continuing to work with President Donald Trump on other important issues such as tax reform, protecting the coal industry, protecting Social Security and standing up for our seniors,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s Executive Order on energy. “Today, President Donald Trump signed an Executive Order that rolls back devastating regulations on American energy production. The “so-called” Clean Power Plan was a nightmare for the West Virginia coal industry and would increase home energy prices for American consumers. This Executive Order is just one of the many ways President Trump is standing up for West Virginia energy production and I am proud to stand with him in this fight. For eight years, former President Barack Obama waged an all-out war on coal and West Virginia values. As unemployment skyrocketed and coal mines closed, President Obama and his left-wing supporters focused on executing on his promise to bankrupt the coal industry. Thankfully, President Trump realizes that we can reduce burdensome regulations on energy production and protect our environment. In fact, According to the Environmental Protection Agency, since 1980 there has been a 65% reduction in air pollutants, while energy consumption has increased. President Trump has made it clear we can be pro-jobs, pro-energy and pro-environment.” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement regarding the American Health Care Act. "I was elected by the voters of the Second Congressional District to repeal Obamacare. As Obamacare continues to be the law of the land, more Americans will see it is failing to live up to its promises. I intend to continue working to pass legislation to repeal Obamacare, lower premiums and increases choices for hard working West Virginia taxpayers." said Rep. Alex Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s first address to Congress. “Tonight, President Trump laid out an optimistic agenda that will change America for the better. I am pleased that President Trump is keeping the promises he made to voters in November. I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump to bring back jobs to communities that have been devastated by the past eight years of former President Obama,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Yesterday evening, Congressman Alex X. Mooney hosted a telephone town hall meeting with XXX constituents from the Second Congressional District. “Telephone town hall meetings allow me to hear input and answer questions from constituents in all 17 counties, from Harpers Ferry to Hurricane, spanning 343 miles across West Virginia. I appreciate hearing the passion and views from my constituents during our productive issue based discussions. I am proud of my conservative voting record and will continue to work with President Donald Trump to enact his pro-jobs agenda,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Congressman Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Mooney serves on the House Financial Services Committee. ###
03.01.2017	MARTINSBURG, WV. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney hosted a financial services roundtable with business leaders in the Eastern Panhandle to discuss the challenges facing consumers. “I was pleased to hear directly from the business community in my district about the challenges they face with regulations coming from Washington. We discussed some of the most important economic issues facing West Virginia communities. A wide variety of issues were discussed including; access to mortgages, retirement security, supporting our community banks, and helping small businesses get the loans they need to open their doors, hire more employees, and grow our economy. I look forward to working with the Financial Services Committee and President Donald Trump to pass commonsense reforms to expand financial opportunities in rural areas and for the great state of West Virginia.,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Congressman Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Mooney was appointed to serve on the House Financial Services Committee at the beginning of the 115th Congress. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney attended a bill signing with President Donald Trump as he signed into law H. J. Res 38, Disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of the Interior known as the Stream Protection Rule. “Today’s signing represents a significant victory for West Virginia and a victory for energy consumers all across the country. I made a promise to the people of the Second District of West Virginia that I would fight for American energy production including coal, and natural gas, and work to bring back jobs to our state. Last Congress, I was proud to have passed the STREAM Act, H.R. 1644, in the U.S. House of Representatives, that would have prevented this regulation from being enacted. Now that the rule has been stopped, I look forward to continuing to work with President Trump to roll back the job-killing agenda from former President Obama.” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Congressman Mooney introduced H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, to prevent the implementation of a new stream buffer zone rule from the Office of Surface Mining in the Department of the Interior. That bill passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support in January of 2016. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. –Republican Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) introduced H.R. # the Life at Conception Act of 2017. "I believe that all human life is sacred. This week I reintroduced the Life at Conception Act with 57 bipartisan original cosponsors, a record high number. My bill simply codifies a biological fact which is that life begins at the moment of conception. The Life at Conception Act is a necessary component in the long term protection of the unborn. I hope that my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, will join me in promoting respect and protection for all human life,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. Video of Life at Conception Act Speech "The importance of Congressman Mooney's Life at Conception Act cannot be overstated. Rather than tiptoe around Roe v. Wade, the Life at Conception Act eliminates the High Court's impenetrable wall by giving Congress and state legislatures the power to end, rather than merely regulate, abortion-on-demand," said the President of the National Pro-Life Alliance Martin Fox. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Republican Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) released the following statement about the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump: "I look forward to working with President Donald Trump and his top notch administration to undo burdensome regulations forced upon the American people by former President Barack Obama. Working together as Republicans and Democrats, Congress and President Trump will stimulate job growth, protect family values and revitalize the coal industry. It is now time for the country to unite behind our new president and work together to provide opportunities for hard working Americans,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Republican Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) has been appointed to serve on the House Financial Services Committee.Congressman Mooney’s predecessor Senator Shelley Moore Capito served on this committee for 14 years. "It is an honor to be asked to serve on the House Financial Services Committee. Financial Services oversees some of the most important economic issues facing West Virginia, including our community banking system, insurance, and housing policy. This important committee assignment will give me a greater platform to expand financial opportunities in rural areas and for the great state of West Virginia,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. On Congressman Mooney’s appointment to the House Financial Services Committee, Chairman Hensarling released the following statement: “I am pleased to announce that Congressman Mooney has been selected to serve on the House Financial Services Committee for the 115th Congress. I look forward to having Alex on our team as we work to expand jobs, preserve retirement security, and promote smarter regulations in our free market economy. I appreciate his continued service on behalf of West Virginia and our country,” said Chairman Jeb Hensarling. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
12.19.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) released the following statement on the publication of the Office of Surface Mining’s Stream Protection Rule (SPR). “The Office of Surface Mining released its devastating Stream Protection Rule this week as a final parting shot on the coal industry by President Obama. I can assure the people of West Virginia that I will work with President-Elect Trump and the new head of the Office of Surface Mining next year to make sure that the so-called “Stream Protection Rule” will not go into effect and further harm the coal industry,” said Rep Alex X. Mooney. The National Mining Association released a study on the projected job loss impact of the Stream Protection Rule on the economy across the country. It is estimated that over 5,000 jobs in Western mining states will be lost due to the SPR, over 5,000 jobs will be lost in interior states, and over 30,000 in Appalachia will be lost due to this new “Stream Protection Rule.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) made the following statement after voting to fund our nation’s military for 2017: “Our troops deserve our country’s deepest respect and gratitude. Those who devote their lives to protecting and serving our country must be given the best tools to do so,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “West Virginia is home to the largest per capita veteran population in the country. As such, voting for the National Defense Authorization Act is one of the most important and meaningful pieces of legislation for the people of our great state.” The NDAA conference report provides critical support for our nation’s troops, who risk their lives on a daily basis to protect and defend our nation. The report includes a 2.1% pay increase for our troops, the largest since 2011. It also represents a significant shift in defense policy by ending our troop drawdowns. The report increases our topline military staffing level, and boosts authorized troop numbers for both the Army and Air National Guards, a priority for West Virginia. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney announced $85,000 in grant funding from the United States Department of Agriculture “The United States Department of Agriculture announced $85,000 worth of grant funding for rural development in Hardy and Hampshire Counties. These grants will help promote local farmers and products while developing and implementing new and innovative farming techniques. If my office can ever be of assistance in helping secure more grants like these I encourage local organizations and individuals to reach out to my office at any time,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. Specific Grant Information Listed Below: Eastern WV Community and Technical College Foundation (WV-2) (HARDY COUNTY) Rural Development grant of $32,000 Project Description: Rural Development funds will be used for the development and implementation of agriculture development program including Agriculture Action Council, Ag-Innovation Program, Farm Transition Plan and Bicohar Research and Education Initiative. Farm Work Wonders Corporation (WV-2) (HARDY COUNTY) Rural Development grant of $53,000 Project Description: Rural Development funds will be used for the operation and marketing of the Wardensville Garden Market which will promote local farmers and specialty agriculture products in Hardy and Hampshire Counties. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
08.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mooney announced that a total of $4,085,049 from the Economic Development Administration will be awarded to Randolph and Upshur Counties. “I am pleased to announce that more than $4 million in funds for economic development will be allocated to Randolph and Upshur Counties. This money is projected to bring 565 jobs to the areas and around $13.5 million in private investments. These funds will provide critical investments to two of the most rural counties in the Second Congressional District,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. The first Economic Development Administration (EDA) investment fund totaling $2,285,049 will go to the construction of an Innovation and Knowledge Business Center in downtown Buckhannon. The Center will be managed by the Upshur County Development Authority and will be targeted to information technology and other technology-based business interests. In addition, the Center will provide flex-office and incubator space. Broadband access will also be available as a result of a privately funded initiative to address the current lack of broadband access in Upshur County. The second EDA investment for $1,800,000 for Randolph County will go to the Randolph County Development Authority in Elkins, WV, for the Hardwood Cluster Manufacturing Expansion Project so that a major local cabinet manufacturer, Greenfield Cabinetry LLC, can double its current production rate to facilitate a new national contract. The company will invest in excess of $7 million in equipment and wages in the first three years, and will utilize numerous local suppliers that will also see an increase in sales. EDA funds will be used to support the construction of a 27,000-square-foot expansion of an existing 50,000-square-foot metals manufacturing complex, enabling the manufacturer to expand and create 45 new living wage jobs. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney announced that his bill, H.R. 4499, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act, will be implemented by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “On Wednesday, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that they are implementing the important policy changes contained in my bill, H.R. 4499, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act. Since I first introduced the PROP Act in February, I have been calling for Congress to pass my common sense, bipartisan legislation, which puts doctors, not the federal government, in control of opioid prescribing decisions. This change in policy is an important part of the fight against opioid abuse. I would like to thank the 43 cosponsors of my bill in the House and the 8 cosponsors in the Senate in our successful effort to pass this bill’s policies through regulation and help put an end to opioid abuse,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “This week, we took action to stop the nation’s growing opioid epidemic from hurting more Americans,” said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady. “As House Republicans noted in our plan to improve health care for all Americans, we are concerned that the Administration's practice of tying payment policies to patient satisfaction results can harm patients rather than help them. Thanks to Congressman Mooney’s leadership, HHS has taken an important step to directly address that concern by reforming policies regarding the prescription of medication.” “Removing questions from payment calculations that could lead to inappropriate pressure on doctors is a bipartisan, commonsense solution to tackling the enormous challenges we face in the ongoing opioid epidemic,” Sen. Johnson said. “I’m glad to see that the Department of Health and Human Services plans to implement changes my legislation called for as part of their newly announced actions on opioids—it’s the responsible thing to do.” “This is a big win for Senator Johnson, for the people of Wisconsin, and for the country,” said health committee Chairman Lamar Alexander. “These survey questions had the unintended consequence of actually encouraging the overprescribing of painkilling opioids and I’m glad to see the administration correct this mistake by removing them from Medicare payment calculations." “Prescription drugs play an enormous role in the heroin epidemic; far too many individuals struggling with addiction were first introduced to their drug of choice through legally-prescribed medication. That’s why it’s imperative that we take steps to reform prescribing practices to safeguard our communities,” said Rep. Kuster. “One of the most egregious examples of this is a legislative glitch that links Medicare reimbursement rates to a patient’s reported pain level, which could inadvertently incentivize doctors to prescribe more pain medication than may be necessary to improve their level of reimbursement. I was proud to join with my colleague from West Virginia to help introduce legislation to undo this glitch, and I urged the White House to take immediate steps to do the same. I applaud the White House and HHS for following our lead and taking steps today to undo this completely unnecessary and harmful policy.” The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act would remove a significant source of pressure on doctors to prescribe narcotic pain medication. For more information on the PROP Act, follow this link. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney addressed the U.S. House of Representatives on the floor about the recent flooding in West Virginia. Video of Rep. Alex X. Mooney Addresses House about the Recent Flooding in West Virginia Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) released the following statement this morning after voting for the passage of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act last night. “Keeping America safe and protecting our national interests are two of the most important jobs of the federal government and are a Constitutional imperative. At a time when we face worldwide conflicts that pose a direct threat to American families, it is critical to provide the resources to keep our troops safe as they protect our nation. “Over 160,000 veterans call the Mountain State home. This legislation builds on our proud military tradition by making critical investments in West Virginia’s Army and Air National Guard, which maintain critical operations at McLaughlin Air Base in Charleston, Shepherd Air Base in Martinsburg, and elsewhere across our state. West Virginia’s Army and Air National Guard play a crucial role in ensuring that our nation is prepared to respond to threats to our national security, both foreign and domestic. “I am pleased that a strong, bipartisan majority of Congress passed this bill and I encourage the Senate to do the same. I hope the President will sign it promptly.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney’s bill, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, also known as the PROP Act, was introduced in the United States Senate by Ron Johnson (WI-R), Joe Manchin (WV-D), John Barrasso (WY-R) and Richard Blumenthal (CT-D). This bill makes a technical modification to the Affordable Care Act to eliminate a potential penalty on physicians who refuse to overprescribe opioid drugs. “Prescription drug abuse is wreaking havoc on families and communities in West Virginia and across our country. We have to fight back against this drug epidemic before it tears more lives apart,” said U.S. Rep. Alex X. Mooney (WV-2). “The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act changes current law to help end the unnecessary overuse of prescription painkillers. In doing so, this bill empowers doctors, not the federal government, to choose what is right for patients. I am thankful to Senator Ron Johnson (WI-R), Senator Joe Manchin (WV-D), Senator John Barrasso (WY-R), and Richard Blumenthal (CT-D) for introducing this important piece of legislation in the United States Senate.” “The Senate's recent passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act was an important step, but there is still more we can do.” Sen. Johnson said. “The government may mean well by linking payments to patient satisfaction, but there is real, bipartisan concern that specific questions about pain management place inappropriate pressure on doctors. Physicians must be free to exercise their best judgment when prescribing the proper level of pain medication – that’s what patients and taxpayers expect.” The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, would remove a significant source of pressure on doctors to prescribe narcotic pain medication. For more information on the PROP Act, follow this link. The PROP Act has been endorsed by American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Society of Addiction Medicine, American Academy of Neurology, American Osteopathic Association, Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation, Friends of NIDA, and American Association of Orthopaedic Surgeons. Bipartisan Original House Cosponsors: Annie Kuster (D-NH), Hal Rogers (R-KY), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Frank Guinta (R-NH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Yesterday, the House Budget Committee passed the budget out of committee for Fiscal Year 2017. The Republican Budget includes a proposed item from Congressman Alex X. Mooney that makes combating opioid abuse a high priority in Congress. “I am proud to announce that language I submitted to the Budget Committee to help combat the opioid epidemic will be included in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Republican budget. This language will add much needed congressional support to ongoing efforts in battling the opioid epidemic that is ravaging our country and my state of West Virginia,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “Sixty-one percent of all drug overdose deaths in the United States were related to opioids in 2014. This statistic is even more meaningful to West Virginia because my state holds the highest overdose rate in the country. This is a bipartisan issue that affects all regardless of age, gender, race, or socio-economic background. The language that I had put into the budget urges members of both parties to work together to find ways to fight back against the drug epidemic.” For more information on Congressman Mooney’s language that was included in the Budget click here. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney voted in committee in favor of creating a ‘Centennial Challenge Fund,’ ensuring the continual improvement of our Nation’s parks by financing multiple park projects through matching private donations from organization partners. The fund will increase the spending authorization for the ‘National Park Service Volunteers in Parks’ program and will also make modifications to the ‘Public Land Corps’ program. “Since the National Park Service was first created in 1916, Americans and individuals from across the globe have been able to experience our Nation’s natural beauty. As the proud Representative from the Second Congressional District of West Virginia, I am constantly in awe of the beautiful Appalachian Trail that runs through our state. I have always been a proud supporter of emboldening our parks system to better maintain our Nation’s parks. Thousands of people visit these parks each year and contribute greatly to our local economies,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “I am proud to have voted today to create the ‘Centennial Challenge Fund,’ which will provide the parks system with the necessary upgrades and services that will continue to benefit the American people for years to come.” August 25, 2016, will mark the 100th anniversary of the signing of the National Park Service Organic Act. This Act created the National Park Services (NPS), the federal bureau within the Department of the Interior responsible for promoting and protecting our national parks and monuments. The National Park System has grown significantly since 1916, and it now comprises 410 units covering more than 84 million acres in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Saipan, and the Virgin Islands. In 2015, America’s National Parks had a record-setting 305 million visits; however, when measured on a per capita basis, visitation has declined in recent decades. In addition to deferred maintenance projects, the NPS also faces challenges with fee collection, technological upgrades, and management of concessions contracts for visitor services. This bill will help the NPS to maintain our Nation’s parks, increasing visits and ultimately benefiting the American economy. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney announced nearly $1 million in grant funding from the Department of Health and Human Services for three community health centers in the Second Congressional District. “The Department of Health and Human Services announced today that three community health centers in the Second Congressional District will receive a combined $994,733 in grant funding to help improve and expand drug treatment. As the battle for a drug-free West Virginia continues, it is important that these facilities have the adequate tools and funding necessary to help our communities that have been ravaged by substance abuse,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. Community health centers receiving funding are listed below: $317,650 – Cabin Creek Health Center, Inc., Dawes, Kanawha County $325,000 – WomenCare, Inc., Scott Depot, Putnam County $352,083 – Community Care of West Virginia, Rock Cave, Upshur County Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney’s bill, H.R. 4499, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, was introduced as an amendment by Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin to the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 in the Senate. The Johnson amendment demonstrates support in both chambers of Congress for Rep. Mooney’s bill. “Prescription drug abuse is wreaking havoc on families and communities in West Virginia and across our country. We have to fight back against this drug epidemic before it tears more lives apart,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney (WV-2). “The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act changes current law to help end the unnecessary overuse of prescription painkillers. In doing so, this bill empowers doctors, not the federal government, to choose what is right for patients. I am thankful to Senator Ron Johnson for introducing my bill as an amendment to the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016.” H.R. 4499, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, would remove a significant source of pressure on doctors to prescribe narcotic pain medication. For more information on the PROP Act, follow this link. Bipartisan Original Cosponsors in the House: Annie Kuster (D-NH), Hal Rogers (R-KY), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Frank Guinta (R-NH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). The PROP Act has also been endorsed by the American Medical Association, the American Society of Addiction Medicine, the American Osteopathic Association, The Friends of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney voted for H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act (SHARE Act). The SHARE Act is a bipartisan package of nine individual bills that protects the traditional right of American sportsmen to fish and hunt. “Outdoor activities like hunting and fishing are enjoyed by millions of West Virginians every year regardless of age, race, gender, or socio-economic background. The last thing that people need is for government to get in the way of enjoying the great outdoors. That’s why I voted for H.R. 2406, the SHARE Act. This bill will help keep the EPA out of your hunting ammunition and tackle box,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. The SHARE Act passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 242-161. Among the many things this package includes, two bills are significant to West Virginia: The Hunting, Fishing, and Recreational Shooting Protection Act and the Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act. The first bill, the Hunting, Fishing, and Recreational Shooting Protection Act, gets rid of unnecessary regulation on ammunition and traditional fishing tackle that was put in place through the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976 (TSCA.) The second bill, the Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act, will make more funds available to the states for a longer period of time for the creation and maintenance of shooting ranges. For more information about H.R. 2406 follow this link. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney introduced H.R. 4499, the bipartisan Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, also known as the PROP Act. This bill makes a technical modification to the Affordable Care Act to eliminate a potential penalty on physicians who refuse to overprescribe opioid drugs. “Prescription drug abuse is wreaking havoc on families and communities in West Virginia and across our country. We have to fight back against this drug epidemic before it tears more lives apart,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney (WV-2). “The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act changes current law to help end the unnecessary overuse of prescription painkillers. In doing so, this bill empowers doctors, not the federal government, to choose what is right for patients.” “In order to beat back on the scourge of prescription drug abuse, we have to employ a multi-pronged, holistic approach – and the medical community has certainly got to be a part of the solution,” said Rep. Hal Rogers (KY-5), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “I believe that the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing (PROP) Act will help change both attitudes and prescribing practices among physicians. By sending a signal that opiates are not necessarily our first line of defense against pain, the bill will help doctors make informed medical decisions while ensuring that patients receive the best quality of care. I applaud Congressman Mooney for his leadership on this issue, and look forward to working with him to move the legislation forward.” “Around the country, families are losing loved ones to the devastating opioid epidemic that is sweeping across the nation. Far too many of those individuals struggling with opioid and heroin addiction first started after developing a dependence on prescription drugs. That’s why I’m a proud cosponsor of the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, which will help encourage doctors to use best-practices when prescribing medication, in order to prevent patients from starting on the dangerous path towards addiction. We must put an end to this epidemic once and for all; I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together and pass this important legislation without delay,” said Rep. Annie Kuster (NH-2). Kuster is the co-founder of the Bipartisan Task Force to End the Heroin Epidemic, and she is working with stakeholders across the state of New Hampshire to tackle the epidemic in her home state. “Opioid abuse is a growing problem that is destroying lives in our region. This bipartisan legislation will help curb unnecessary prescriptions of opioids and other drugs that are subject to abuse. We have seen that when a patient gets routine surgery and is prescribed painkillers they become hooked and their downward path often ends in turning to heroin. This legislation will help break that cycle and lead to better pain management by the medical community,” said Rep. Barbara Comstock (VA-10). "Opioid abuse is devastating young people and their families on a daily basis across our country. Over prescribing is one factor driving this epidemic and it is critical that prevailing pain management protocols acknowledge and address the carnage that is a byproduct of the current approach, ” said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse. “Congressman Mooney’s bill will do that. The Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act is a common sense bill that will allow doctors to continue their important work serving their patients without leading to unnecessary over prescription of opioids.” “We know that prescription pain killers can be a gateway for heroin, yet we have a healthcare system that incentivizes the over prescription of these very same opioids. In what world does this make sense? Each and every day I hear yet another devastating story about a life taken too soon because of heroin or prescription drug abuse. As a country, we must do more to ensure these men and women get the access to the care that is desperately needed, and this legislation is a positive step forward,” said Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan House Manufacturing Caucus. "This bill makes an important contribution to the multipronged effort needed to end the epidemic of opioid misuse and deaths from overdose, a high priority for the American Medical Association. We support steps to support clinical judgment and safe prescribing by addressing hospital payment incentives that may encourage inappropriate prescribing of opioids," said Dr. Patrice Harris, AMA Board Chair-Elect and head of the AMA Task Force to Reduce Opioid Abuse. “ASAM is pleased to support the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act. While well-intended, current policies that link reimbursement to patient satisfaction survey questions about pain management can provide an incentive for health care providers to overprescribe opioids, a decision that can have devastating consequences for patients at risk of addiction. By breaking this link, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act will free prescribers to use their best clinical judgment in prescribing opioids, rather than being influenced by the impact their decision will have on their hospital’s bottom line," said R. Jeffrey Goldsmith, MD, President, American Society of Addiction Medicine. H.R. 4499, the Promoting Responsible Opioid Prescribing Act, would remove a significant source of pressure on doctors to prescribe narcotic pain medication. For more information on the PROP Act, follow this link. Bipartisan Original Cosponsors: Annie Kuster (D-NH), Hal Rogers (R-KY), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Frank Guinta (R-NH), Tim Ryan (D-OH), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). The PROP Act has been endorsed by the Endorsements: American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Society of Addiction Medicine, American Academy of Neurology, American Osteopathic Association, Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation, Friends of NIDA, American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Association of American Medical Colleges, America’s Essential Hospitals. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. --- Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney voted to override President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762, Restoring American’s Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. “Today the House fulfilled its promise to the American people to fight for a more patient-centered healthcare system. H.R. 3762 would have repealed key parts of Obamacare that have been killing our healthcare system, such as the penalties associated with the individual and employer mandates. This bill would have begun to put Americans back in charge of their healthcare, not the federal government,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “In addition, the bill would have eliminated tax-payer funding for Planned Parenthood, which is the nation’s largest provider of abortions.” This bill would have also repealed some of the most harmful taxes in Obamacare, such as the tax on medical devices, like insulin pumps and oxygen tanks, and the tax on so-called “Cadillac” healthcare plans. These taxes put an unnecessary burden on job creators, small businesses, and individuals in our communities. Furthermore, the bill would have repealed the unnecessary Obamacare “slush-fund,” known as the Prevention and Public Health Fund. This fund was supposed to invest in disease prevention and public health, while in reality it is simply a multi-billion dollar pot of money to be spent at the Administration’s sole discretion. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney announced that Jefferson County, West Virginia, has been designated as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). "I am pleased to announce that Jefferson County has been designated a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). This HIDTA designation will bring critical resources to Jefferson County to combat the drug epidemic that is ravaging our communities and way of life. I have visited with my constituents and heard far too many heart-wrenching stories about the damages caused by drug abuse. These HIDTA resources will help federal, state, and local officials better coordinate efforts as they fight to keep West Virginia safe," said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. --- Today Congressman Alex X. Mooney’s bill, the Supporting Transparent Regulatory and Environmental Actions in Mining (STREAM) Act, H.R.1644, passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 235-188. “I am proud that my bill, the STREAM Act, passed the House today with bipartisan support. The STREAM Act is critical to the mining industry and our economy. This bill will block an Obama Administration anti-coal regulation, saving an estimated 77,000 jobs in West Virginia and across America. President Obama needs to wake up and realize that his radical environmental agenda has a real impact on hardworking families,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “The passage of the STREAM Act is crucial for preserving our economic health and way of life in West Virginia.” “Thousands of Americans in coal communities throughout the country will be grateful to Rep. Mooney and his colleagues for blocking the Stream Protection Rule (SPR), the latest Obama Administration attempt to destroy their livelihoods. This massive rule will surely add to the 40,000 jobs already lost in the nation’s coal industry during this administration,” said National Mining Association President and CEO Hal Quinn. “If Congress is serious about eliminating foolish, duplicative and costly regulation, there is no better place to start than by supporting Rep. Mooney’s bill.” When the rewrite of the Stream Buffer Zone Rule was first proposed by the Office of Surface Mining (OSM), the Obama Administration regulators described it as a mild regulation that would only impact one coal region. However, the proposed rule contains sweeping changes that modify 475 existing rules. Taken together, these changes will destroy an estimated 77,000 coal mining jobs nationwide, including up to 52,000 in the Appalachian region. This would be devastating to states like West Virginia that have already been ravaged by President Obama’s continuous War on Coal. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to talk about his bill, H.R. 4263, the Technical Education and Career Help Act, also known as the TEACH Act. This bill invests in career and technical education (CTE) around the country. Video of Floor Speech: TEACH Act Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s proposed executive actions on guns: “Every American has the right to be safe and secure in their homes, neighborhoods, schools, and places of work. Our Second Amendment helps ensure that security. President Obama’s most recent executive order is his latest of many proposals aimed at stripping away the rights of law abiding American citizens. I will fight with my colleagues in Congress to stop Obama’s continual executive overreach,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman Alex X. Mooney and Congressman Sam Graves have placed a friendly wager on the outcome of the Division II Championship football game. Congressman Mooney’s Shepherd University Rams are taking on Congressman Graves’ Northwest Missouri State Bearcats. “I look forward to seeing Congressman Graves proudly wear a Shepherd University football jersey on January 5th. In the highly unlikely event that Shepherd loses, I have agreed to wear Northwest Missouri State University gear the first day that Congress is back in session,” said Rep. Alex Mooney. “Despite retirements, adversity, and constant turnover, Northwest has been the mark of consistency in college football over the past few decades,” Rep. Sam Graves said. “I’m looking forward to watching them continue their Division 2 dominance in Kansas City tomorrow, and especially to seeing Congressman Mooney wearing Northwest football gear in the Capitol next year.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney and Congresswoman Katherine M. Clark introduced H.R. 4263, the Technical Education and Career Help Act, also known as the TEACH Act. This bill invests in career and technical education (CTE) around the country. “I am proud to introduce H.R. 4263, the Technical Education and Career Help Act. As I travel across my district in West Virginia and visit schools and community colleges, I hear time and again that quality career and technical education opens up options for high-paying jobs. Having high quality educators in our schools training the workforce of tomorrow is imperative,” said Rep. Alex X. Mooney. “My bipartisan bill will ensure that students interested in careers such as welding or emergency service receive the training necessary to prepare them for a competitive professional environment.” “The TEACH Act will ensure that our 21st century workforce has the skill set for success in today’s economy,” said Rep. Katherine M. Clark. "This bill will allow students to develop highly marketable skills and support Career and Technology Education teachers. The TEACH Act will broaden participation in technical careers and strengthen our economy.” “ACTE is proud to endorse the TEACH Act, which will bridge the gap between future CTE educators and the classroom,” said Association for Career and Technical Education Executive Director LeAnn Wilson. “It is critical that we encourage new professionals to enter the CTE teaching field and provide them with the support they need to succeed in their role, especially in the face of challenges currently posed by teacher shortages nationwide.” The TEACH Act invests in CTE teachers by expanding, without authorizing new spending, the Higher Education Act's teacher residency grant program to help schools recruit and train high-quality CTE teachers. This will increase the quality of training that students receive and ensure that they are truly prepared with the skills they need to succeed in today’s workplace. Other cosponsors include Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA), Rep. Bruce Poliquin (R-ME), Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-NJ), Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA), and Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA). The Alliance for Excellent Education, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), the Association for Career and Technical Education (ACTE), the National Association of State Directors of Career and Technical Consortium (NASDCTEc), Public Advocacy for Kids, and Future Farmers of America also support the bill. The bipartisan legislation has also been introduced in the Senate (S.2174) by Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Tammy Baldwin (R-WI), and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV). For more information on the bill click here. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Congressman Alex X. Mooney introduced H.R. 3776, the End Government Shutdowns Act. The End Government Shutdowns Act will bring certainty and security to the federal spending process by eliminating the threat of government shutdowns. “For the last 18 budget cycles, since 1997, Congress has failed to pass spending bills on time through the regular appropriations process. This has resulted in several federal government shutdowns, hasty budget agreements, economic uncertainty, and disruptions in services for many hardworking taxpayers; our country cannot continue to operate like this,” said Rep. Mooney. The End Government Shutdowns Act will put an end to this government funding chaos by providing an automatic Continuing Resolution, also known as a CR, for any of the twelve regular appropriations bills not completed by October 1. Once 120 days have elapsed, the federal budget will be trimmed by 1 percentage point. Each 90 day period thereafter, congressional spending will receive an additional 1 percent cut. These cuts will place pressure on the federal funding process without shutting down the government. This proposal does not play favorites among liberal or conservative spending priorities. This will serve as a critical incentive for both sides to come together and solve America’s spending challenges in an equitable manner. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the House floor about the ongoing drug problem in West Virginia and the importance of designating Jefferson County as a High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA). Video of Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) Floor Speech on HIDTA Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney voted for H.R. 22, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. This bill authorizes the federal highway program for six years. “This bill is important to economic development in West Virginia. A safe and modern highway system will help facilitate jobs and economic growth. Authorizing the highway program for six years will enable West Virginia to properly plan for needed upgrades to our roads and bridges,” said Rep. Mooney. The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 is a multi-year highway bill that improves our Nation’s roads and bridges, empowers the states to make more decisions, streamlines the permitting process, and maintains a commitment to safety. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney introduced his resolution H.Res. 514, Protecting Religious Freedom in America. “The ability to live by our religious convictions is inherent to the founding principles of our country. Unfortunately, this right is under attack today. Despite this freedom being explicitly laid out in our Constitution, we have seen federal, state, and local governments continue to violate this founding principle,” said Rep. Mooney. “The right to free expression of religious ideas without fear of persecution is expressed in the Declaration of Independence, made into law in the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and reiterated in many Supreme Court cases. We must fight for this right. This resolution is one way to do that. Congress must make a strong statement that attacks on religious liberty must stop.” H.Res. 514 has been endorsed by the Family Research Council and already has 15 co-sponsors. Yesterday Congressman Mooney spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to talk about the resolution. Click here for the link to the video. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement of support for Congressman Daniel Webster for Speaker of the House in Republican Conference. “Today, I voted for Congressman Daniel Webster of Florida at the Republican Conference nomination meeting. As I stated in my October 8th press release, we need a Speaker who will forcefully assert our authority in the U.S. House of Representatives and fight President Obama’s many abuses of his executive power,” said Rep. Mooney. Congressman Paul Ryan won the Republican nomination with 200 votes, Congressman Daniel Webster received 43 votes, Congresswoman Marsha Blackburn received 1 vote, and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy received 1 vote. The vote on the full House floor for the next Speaker of the House of Representatives will be held tomorrow, October 29, 2015. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
10.14.2015	Eligible disabled veterans will be considered for a position in Mooney’s Charleston office WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex Mooney announced that the House of Representatives Wounded Warrior Program is accepting applications for positions in congressional offices around the country, including in his Charleston office. “My father served in Vietnam as a Captain in the Army where he received the Bronze Star. He was lucky enough to have returned home healthy and safe, but that is not the case for every veteran who sacrifices for our nation,” said Congressman Mooney. “The Wounded Warrior Program plays an integral role in opening doors for our veterans who wish to continue their public service. I look forward to the potential of adding another veteran to my dedicated staff.” The new position available in Mooney’s Charleston office is for a caseworker who would be responsible for facilitating and coordinating responses to a wide range of requests received from constituents. District caseworkers also help constituents interact with administrative and government agencies by acting as facilitators, ombudsmen and, in some cases, advocates. A full list of vacancy announcements for the program can be found here. The Wounded Warrior Program was established to create fellowships that provide employment opportunities within the House of Representatives. The fellowships allow veterans to gain experience and exposure to ultimately develop their scope of transition prospects. Positions are available in congressional district offices nationwide. According to the Wounded Warrior Program, applicants must have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have a 30 percent or greater service-connected disability rating and less than 20 years of service. In addition to a current resume, applicants must submit a copy of their DD214 and a VA letter confirming that they have at least a 30 percent service-connected disability rating. If you are interested please visit the Wounded Warrior Program’s website to view its “Frequently Asked Questions” section to learn how to be considered for one of these fellowships. # # #
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay of the Environmental Protection Agency's “Waters of the United States” regulations: “This is a major win for farmers, businesses, and families in West Virginia. The Environmental Protection Agency’s harmful WOTUS rule is detrimental to our communities in West Virginia and across the country,” said Rep. Mooney. “West Virginia’s own Attorney General Patrick Morrissey led the charge in stopping this rule, and I applaud his efforts to prevent this devastating regulation from going into effect.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement of support of Congressman Daniel Webster for Speaker of the House. “After talking to all of the candidates that are running for Speaker of the House of Representatives, I have chosen to support Congressman Daniel Webster of Florida at the Republican Conference today. We need a Speaker that will fight to defend our coal industry, defend our Second Amendment rights and protect the lives of unborn children. The next Speaker of the House must forcefully assert our constitutional authority and stop President Obama’s many abuses of his executive power,” said Rep. Mooney. “As a native of Charleston, West Virginia, Congressman Daniel Webster understands the values of hard work and freedom that our state cherishes. His parents met while they were working at Union Carbide. His mother, Mildred Schoolcraft, is one of eleven children from Roane County and his father, Dennis Webster, is one of eight children from Cross Lanes, both of which are in my congressional district. Over the past several days Congressman Webster has clearly articulated his plan to restore the power of the purse to the U.S. House of Representatives, where it belongs.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney released the following statement congratulating Evans Elementary School for being recognized as National Blue Ribbon Schools for 2015. “I would like to express my sincerest congratulations to Evans Elementary School for being recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School for 2015. This is a tremendous honor given to only two schools in West Virginia this year. I am proud of the hardworking teachers, faculty, and students that achieved this honor. Their pursuit of academic excellence is inspiring, and I hope that their success can be replicated across our state,” said Rep. Mooney. Video of Congressman Alex X. Mooney Speech on Evans Elementary Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to call for the sanctity of all human life and to encourage his colleagues in the House to co-sponsor H.R. 816, the Life at Conception Act. “Every life is sacred. That’s why I am honored to be the lead sponsor of H.R. 816, the Life at Conception Act. The Life at Conception Act is a necessary component in the long term protection of the unborn. This bill sets a standard for promoting and encouraging a culture of life. If enacted, this bill would just affirm that unborn children are deserving of protection.” said Rep. Mooney. Video of Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) Floor Speech on the Life at Conception Act Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to recognize Spruce Knob-Seneca Rock’s 50th anniversary as a National Recreation Area. “For the past 50 years Spruce Knob-Seneca Rocks National Recreation Area has been enjoyed by families from all over the country. I am fortunate enough to have this national treasure located in the Eastern Panhandle of my district, in Pendleton County. When I visited earlier this month I was amazed by the spectacular scenery, and I encourage everyone to plan their trip to Spruce Knob-Seneca Rocks to experience it for themselves,” said Rep. Mooney. Video of 50th Anniversary of Spruce Knob-Seneca Rocks Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to voice his support of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act. This act would prohibit the funding of Planned Parenthood for a year to allow a full Congressional investigation to take place. “Voters in West Virginia, and all across America, oppose taxpayer funding of abortion. Taxpayers should not be funding the number one provider of abortion in the country that kills a child every 90 seconds. We should direct the $540 million that goes to Planned Parenthood to the more than 13,000 health centers and hospitals around the country that provide better comprehensive women’s care,” said Rep. Mooney. Video of Floor Speech: Defund Planned Parenthood The Defund Planned Parenthood Act passed the United States House of Representatives today by a vote of 241-187-1. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
09.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1462, the Protecting Our Infants Act; Congressman Alex X. Mooney co-sponsored this vital piece of legislation that he helped pass unanimously today. This bill would help newborns suffering from Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS), a medical condition that is the result of prenatal exposure to opioids in the womb, by streamlining treatment plans across the country. In recent years, incidences of the syndrome have increased throughout the US. “I am proud to have co-sponsored and to have voted for H.R. 1462, the Protecting Our Infants Act. We must address the impact that this drug epidemic has on the most vulnerable in our society. With approximately 20% of all babies born in West Virginia being exposed to some type of substance abuse, this bill is more imperative than ever,” said Rep. Mooney. H.R. 1462, the Protecting Our Infants Act requires that the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality develop recommendations for preventing and treating prenatal opioid abuse, that Health and Human Services review research relative to NAS and develop a strategy to coordinate efforts to combat NAS throughout the country, and that the Centers for Disease Control assist the states in collecting public health data relative to prenatal opioid abuse and NAS. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
08.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday August 20, 2015 CONTACT: Meredith Jones PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: Meredith.Jones@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) Praised Increased Funding for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney applauded the announcement that the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) will increase funding for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) by $13.4 million as part of a new Heroin Response Strategy. “The heroin epidemic has continued to escalate in West Virginia, tearing apart our families and communities. I am pleased that the Office of National Drug Control Policy has recognized the magnitude of heroin addiction in West Virginia’s Second District and around the country. I am hopeful that this additional funding will further empower West Virginia’s law enforcement community and public health officials in their efforts to combat this serious problem,” said Rep. Mooney. Three counties in West Virginia’s Second Congressional District, Braxton, Lewis, and Berkeley, will receive funding though this initiative to coordinate heroin related law enforcement operations, fund prosecutors, and create new drug abuse education programs. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives to denounce the Obama Administration’s Stream Protection Rule. According to a recent study, the new Stream Protection Rule puts up to 80,000 direct mining jobs at risk. “These new regulations would be catastrophic to the coal industry and all hardworking American families that depend on coal to keep their energy costs low,” said Rep. Mooney. “The economy of the Appalachian Region, and West Virginia in particular, is uniquely threatened by these regulations because of our mountainous topography and abundance of small streams.” “These new rules and regulations are over 2,500 pages in length. It is ridiculous that the Department of the Interior is giving states only 60 days to go through them. My office has already found extraneous and superfluous rules that have nothing to do with protecting streams.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees.
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Alex X. Mooney spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives Wednesday morning to stress the importance of stronger oversight of the Federal Reserve. “The Federal Reserve’s monetary policy impacts almost every facet of daily life in America; from grocery prices, to how valuable the money you have in savings is, to the price you pay for home loans," said Rep. Mooney. “Despite the Federal Reserve’s enormous power, it conducts its monetary policy in secret. An entity that controls so many aspects of Americans' lives cannot be permitted to operate in the dark; the Federal Reserve must be held accountable to the people.” Congressman Mooney is a cosponsor of the Federal Reserve Transparency Act, H.R. 24. The bill calls for an audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) and of the Federal Reserve Banks. For the full text of Congressman Mooney’s statements on the floor please contact Meredith Jones at 202-225-2711 or at Meredith.Jones@mail.house.gov. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Representatives Alex X. Mooney, David McKinley, and Evan Jenkins condemned the new Office of Surface Mining stream buffer zone rule. According to a 2012 study, a new Stream Buffer Zone rule could kill between 55,150 and 79,870 coal related mining jobs across the U.S. “These new regulations would be catastrophic to the coal industry and all of the hardworking American families that depend on coal to keep their energy costs low. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee to make sure that my bill, H.R. 1644, also known as the STREAM Act, moves swiftly through the committee process before any real damage can be done by this harmful rule,” said Rep. Mooney. “Will this rule help create jobs? Will it make us energy independent? Will it improve our economy? Enough is enough. This rule is one more example of an out-of-control EPA writing rules just because they can, not because the science backs them up,” said Rep. McKinley. "I am outraged that the administration is moving forward with the job-killing stream buffer zone rule. I've spent months talking with our West Virginia coal miners and know how worried they are that this rule will cost them their jobs. They're worried this rule will make it harder not only to mine but for them to put food on the table and provide for their families,” said Rep. Jenkins. "The administration continues to ignore the consequences of their regulations on West Virginia's families and West Virginia's economy. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I have fought to use the power of the purse to keep these regulations from being forced on us. I fought to defund the stream buffer zone rule in committee and will continue to use every tool available to push back against this administration’s regulatory overreach and its war on coal. West Virginians deserve to be heard." Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-02) introduced H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, to prevent implementation of a new stream buffer zone rule from the Office of Surface Mining in the Department of the Interior. Rep. Jenkins and Rep. McKinley are co-sponsors of the STREAM Act. ###
07.15.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday July 15, 2015 CONTACT: Meredith Jones PHONE: 202-225-7856 Email: Meredith.Jones@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) Issues Statement on Shocking Plan Parenthood Exposures WASHINGTON, D.C. –Representative Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) issued a statement after the Center for Medical Progress released an abhorrent video of a top Planned Parenthood official’s admission to the illegal practice of harvesting and trafficking fetal organs after abortions. Dr. Deborah Nucatola of Planned Parenthood is heard saying a number of disturbing things in the video such as: “We’ve been very good at getting heart, lung, liver, because we know that, so I’m not gonna crush that part, I’m gonna basically crush below, I’m gonna crush above, and I’m gonna see if I can get it all intact.” “I am deeply disturbed by the actions of Dr. Deborah Nucatola of Planned Parenthood. I stand with my colleagues in the House and Senate in opposition to these horrific practices. It is time that we investigate the atrocious and gruesome undertakings that are happening at Planned Parenthood. “That is why I signed a letter today along with dozens of other Representatives urging Chairmen Upton and Goodlatte to launch an investigation into the trafficking of fetal tissue as well as the unconscionable activities of abortion providers like Planned Parenthood” said Rep. Mooney. “All human life is precious. Planned Parenthood’s callus actions should be a wakeup call to the rest of the country that abortion is wrong.” The full video can be found on the Center for Medical Progress website. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) issued the following statement today after the release of the Iran nuclear deal. “I am deeply concerned about the deal that the Obama administration has struck with Iran. Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism. I am concerned about this deal for the following reasons: “By lifting the sanctions this deal will infuse billions of dollars into the Iranian economy; this new wealth could then be used for further military buildup. The deal does not allow for anytime anywhere inspections of Iran’s nuclear infrastructure and will also begin to lift the current embargo on conventional weapons and intercontinental ballistic missiles. These are weapons that could hurt not only Israel and our allies in the Middle East, but also endanger the United States.” said Rep. Mooney. “I will fight with my colleagues in Congress to stop this bad deal and to force the Obama administration to go back to the drawing board.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Alex Mooney spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives to condemn the recent trip of top Obama administration officials, Interior Secretary, Sally Jewell and Office of Surface Mining Director, Joseph Pizarchik, to West Virginia. “Secretary Sally Jewell and Director Joseph Pizarchik should be embarrassed that they are just now coming to West Virginia after their offices have relentlessly continued to advance the Obama Administration’s War on Coal.” said Rep. Mooney. “The apparent purpose of their visit was to seek input for a new Obama regulation that is estimated to kill 80,000 coal jobs. “It is clear that nothing will stop the President from trying to implement his radical environmental agenda, and I will continue to fight back on behalf of all West Virginians.” Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) introduced H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, to prevent implementation of a new stream buffer zone rule from the Office of Surface Mining in the Department of the Interior. A 2012 study conducted on behalf of the National Mining Association found that the job loss nationwide from a new Stream Buffer Zone rule would be between 133,441 and 273,227 jobs or 29% to 59% of coal mining and linked sector jobs. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) secured passage of two amendments to the FY16 Interior Appropriations bill. The first amendment will help strengthen transparency and oversight at the Environmental Protection Agency by providing $1 million in additional funding for the Office of the Inspector General at the EPA. “Under the current administration, the Environmental Protection Agency has waged an all-out war on jobs in the beautiful Second District of West Virginia and on communities across America, said Rep. Mooney. “The Office of the Inspector General plays a critical oversight role within the EPA. It is the independent office that works diligently to root out waste, fraud, and abuse. “We take the money from the Office of Public Affairs, which is the office responsible for promoting the Obama administration’s radical environmental agenda, and use it instead for oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency.” The second amendment that Rep. Mooney passed strikes $2 million in funding from the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Policy and transfer those funds to the deficit reduction account. “The Office of Policy is located within the EPA Office of the Administrator and is the primary policy arm for the agency. The funding for this office directly supports this administration’s radical regulatory agenda that is putting an alarming number of my constituents out of work. “It is clear that the EPA under this administration will continue to promote their anti-coal agenda through an enormous number of rules and regulations. We have to slow this process, and that is why I’ve proposed this amendment to cut the Office of Policy funding by $2 million,” said Rep. Mooney. For full text of Rep. Mooney’s statements on the floor please contact Meredith Jones at 202-225-2711 or at Meredith.Jones@mail.house.gov. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled in the case of King v. Burwell: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is yet another reminder of the uncertainty that Obamacare has inflicted on our nation’s healthcare system. This could have been a real opportunity to rework our healthcare system to focus on patient centered policies and reforms. I will continue to support legislation that helps lower healthcare costs and removes the federal government from being in-between doctors and their patients.” said Rep. Mooney. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s Second Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex X. Mooney (WV-2) spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives against the imminent Iran nuclear deal. The United States is currently in talks with Iran to reach a nuclear agreement. The deadline for reaching a deal with Iran is June 30, 2015. “The single greatest threat to the national security of the United States is Iran’s drive for nuclear weapons. Iran is the world’s leading sponsor of terror—a stronghold for terrorists whose very mission is to destroy democracy. said Rep. Mooney. “As things stand, these ongoing nuclear negotiations are placing far too much faith in a country that has proven itself both deceptive and unpredictable.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
06.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) spoke on the floor of the United States House of Representatives in support of H.R. 160, the “Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015,” also known as the Medical Device Tax repeal. The Medical Device tax rate is currently at 2.3% on top of the sale of medical devices such as pacemakers, ultrasound machines, prostheses, hearing aids, and insulin pumps. “This Obamacare tax will continue to weaken the industry’s ability to grow. It will also continue to hinder the development of life saving treatments. Repealing the medical device tax will help sick people by lifting these burdens off our economy; I hope that my colleagues will join me tomorrow in voting for H.R. 160” said Rep. Mooney. According to a 2013 Advanced Medical Technology Association study, two-thirds of companies surveyed reported that they have had to “slow or halt U.S. job creation as a result of the Medical Device tax.” Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
06.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) released the following statement this afternoon about the passage of H.R. 2685, the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Appropriations bill. "I was proud to vote for the 2016 Defense Appropriations bill. This bill lets our military know that we fully support them. It ensures that our military remains the strongest and most skilled military in the world. It increases funding for all key Defense accounts and gives our troops the pay raise and recognition that they so deserve. “As we continue to fight terrorist regimes and rouge nations around the world, it has become more apparent that we need to make proactive changes to our defense budget. This bill meets the United States’ growing needs in a rapidly changing and dangerous world. By increasing funding for readiness programs, we can ensure our troops are ready to combat any threat against our freedom.” H.R. 2685 provides a total of $578.6 billion in discretionary funding for critical national security needs, military operations abroad, and health and quality-of-life programs for the members of our Armed Force and their families. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex X. Mooney applauded the passage of H.R.880, the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 274-145. Mooney is a cosponsor of the legislation, and previously wrote a letter asking House Leadership to bring the bill to the floor for a vote. “Last month, I called for the House Leadership to bring this commonsense legislation to the floor for a vote immediately,” said Rep. Mooney. “I thank them for answering the call. "By making the Research and Development tax credit permanent, this legislation will reduce the amount of taxes that America’s innovators pay. "When I ran for office, I promised West Virginians that I would fight for policies that create jobs and bring economic freedom back to America. This bill takes us a small step in that direction, and I am pleased that it passed.” The legislation permanently extends and simplifies the calculations for the Research and Development Tax Credit. Under the legislation, a West Virginia small business that spends $5 million a year on research could be eligible for a $500,000 tax credit – or enough to hire 10 new employees at $50,000 a year. Businesses in West Virginia conduct over $770 million in Research and Development activity on a yearly basis. According to a recent study, H.R.880 will increase overall investment in research by $33 billion and result in 300,000 research-related jobs. Alex X. Mooney represents West Virginia’s second congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Budget and Natural Resources Committees. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) spoke on the House floor in support of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The bill outlaws most abortions after 20 weeks when scientific consensus says unborn babies feel excruciating pain. “This legislation shouldn’t be controversial,” said Mooney. “It simply protects unborn babies that a preponderance of scientific evidence has proven can feel pain. A clear majority of Americans and West Virginians support this ban.” “As a father of three young children, I am constantly reminded what a blessing children are. Protecting the unborn is one of the issues that compelled me to run for political office in the first place and I am committed to continuing the fight in Congress.” A growing number of states have recently enacted similar legislation banning post-20 week abortions. “I am thankful to come from a state where the pro-life movement is thriving and the rights of the unborn are being restored,” said Congressman Mooney. “In fact, just this past February, the West Virginia Legislature passed our own Pain Capable Unborn Protection Act by wide, bipartisan margins.” Congressman Mooney is also the lead sponsor of the Life at Conception Act. The bill defines life as beginning at conception entitling the unborn to protection under the Constitution. Today’s vote in the House of Representatives on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act coincides with the anniversary of the conviction of Kermit Gosnell, the abortionist who was convicted of gruesomely killing three babies post-birth as well as hundreds of lesser charges. To view the video of Congressman Mooney's speech, click here.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) and Rep. Alex Mooney (R-WV.) recently introduced The Firearms Interstate Commerce Reform Act, a bill to remove statutory burdens on law-abiding gun owners and improve the legal firearm purchase process for active-duty military and law-abiding U.S. citizens. “As a staunch supporter and defender of the Second Amendment, I’m committed to eliminating the archaic red tape burdening gun owners who legally purchase firearms across the nation,” Scalise said. “For decades now, our gun laws have made it harder and more costly to legally purchase guns in other states and then safely bring them home. I’m proud to introduce this legislation with my friend and colleague Rep. Alex Mooney in order to remove these burdensome and unnecessary restrictions so we can bring firearm laws into the 21st Century.” “I promised the people of West Virginia’s Second Congressional District that I would defend their right to keep and bear arms. This bill delivers on that promise,” said Congressman Alex Mooney. “This legislation will eliminate outdated, burdensome restrictions that make it unacceptably difficult for law-abiding citizens to buy and sell firearms. The bill also protects the Second Amendment rights of our military service members, who sacrifice so much to protect our freedoms.” “The Firearms Interstate Commerce Reform Act eases an unreasonable burden mistakenly placed upon the men and women of our armed forces, while streamlining a patchwork of incredibly confusing and antiquated regulations for law-abiding gun owners across the nation,” said Chris W. Cox, executive director of the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. “This is an important issue to our members and we thank Congressmen Scalise and Mooney for their leadership on Second Amendment issues.” The Firearms Interstate Commerce Reform Act would allow: Licensed dealers to transfer firearms (rifles, shotguns and handguns) to out-of-state buyers so long as the transaction complies with the laws of the state of both the transferor and the transferee. Licensed dealers to sell firearms at out-of-state gun shows provided that the laws of the state of both the transferor and the transferee are complied with. For face-to-face transfer of firearms between licensed dealers. Currently dealers must ship a firearm, significantly increasing the risk of theft in the process. Members of the Armed forces and their spouses to purchase firearms as residents of their state of legal residence, the state in which their permanent duty station is located, and the state in which they maintain a residence while serving at their permanent duty station. Currently, members of the Armed Forces may only purchase firearms as residents of the state in which their permanent duty station is located. The Firearms Interstate Commerce Reform Act is supported by the NRA. Scalise introduced a similar bill last congress which gained the support of more than 70 cosponsors. ###
03.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday March 30, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Introduces Bill to Preempt a New Front in the War on Coal WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-02) has introduced H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, to prevent implementation of a new stream buffer zone rule from the Office of Surface Mining in the Department of the Interior. “West Virginia is blessed to be abundant in natural resources. Unfortunately, the President is intent on destroying coal as a domestic energy source,” said Congressman Mooney. “In order to preempt the President from opening a new front in the War on Coal, I submitted the ‘STREAM Act’ this week. The bill would prevent the administration from implementing a new stream buffer zone rule intentionally designed to shut down all surface mining and a significant section of underground mining in the Appalachian region.” “According to industry estimates, the expected rule from OSM would shutter tens of thousands of jobs in West Virginia and hundreds of thousands nationwide. The impact of such a serious hit to the coal industry would also have the effect of increasing home-energy prices for hardworking taxpayers. This bill protects the ability of Americans to seek prosperity from our nation’s natural bounty and is good policy for our families.” Facts on the STREAM Act and the estimated economic impacts of a new stream buffer zone rule can be found here. Chairman of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources Doug Lamborn (CO-05) joined Congressman Mooney as a co-sponsor of the STREAM Act saying: “The STREAM Act is a critical piece of legislation designed to save taxpayer dollars and protect American jobs by fighting back against the Obama Administration’s assault on coal – an abundant, reliable, and affordable energy resource. Passage of this legislation is necessary to stop the Obama administration from continuing with its reckless rulemaking process on a needless regulation that will directly cost thousands of jobs for hardworking Americans and cause significant economic harm.” The STREAM Act was introduced on Thursday of last week and is expected to move successfully through the Natural Resources Committee, which Congressman Mooney is a member. ###
03.26.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday March 26, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Calls for Rejection of President’s Plan to Relocate Jefferson County Based Training Program WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Alex Mooney submitted an appropriations letter to protect roughly two hundred Eastern Panhandle jobs and prevent $400 million in wasteful federal government spending. Currently, the federal government conducts training at the Summit Point Raceway in Jefferson County for Foreign Service security personal. The program supports approximately 175 jobs. President Obama’s budget calls for that training to be moved to a new location in Virginia to be housed in a new $400 million facility. “The President proposes to build a new $400 million facility to house a training program already being effectively administered at Summit Point in Jefferson County. This is exactly the kind of wasteful attitude towards taxpayer funds which has created a debt crisis in our nation.” “This training program is flourishing in Jefferson County and these jobs should stay right here in the Eastern Panhandle.” The full letter, addressed to Chairwoman Kay Granger of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, is included below:
03.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday March 23, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Statement on Patriot Coal Paint Creek Complex Temporary Closure WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Mooney offered the following statement on the news that Patriot Coal will temporarily idle coal production at its Paint Creek Complex. “I was saddened to learn of the news yesterday that 400 hardworking West Virginians may have to go a month without a paycheck and 35 have permanently lost their job. This is exactly why I am taking my efforts to stop the War on Coal so seriously.” “I am proud to be successfully leading the fight to defund new regulatory overreach from the President’s administration in the House of Representatives Budget. Stopping these regulations will protect tens of thousands of West Virginia jobs and keep home energy affordable for hardworking West Virginia families.” “We simply cannot allow the President and his allies in Washington to hurt more West Virginians.” The temporary stop in coal production at the Paint Creek Patriot site was announced yesterday. The company pointed to a variety of factors including the dismal regulatory climate for coal-fired plants. The Patriot Creek Complex is located in the Second Congressional District. ###
03.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday March 17, 2015 CONTACT: Meredith Jones PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: meredith.jones@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney Secures Three Proposals in House Budget Proposals will protect West Virginia Jobs and Cut Federal Waste WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Committee on the Budget released a Balanced Budget for a Stronger America. The House Budget includes three items Congressman Alex Mooney proposed: defunding new stream buffer regulations, defunding new ozone standard regulations and defunding the Legal Services Corporation. “As a freshman member of the House Budget Committee, I worked to deliver on West Virginia priorities, balance the federal budget, and reduce the size and scope of an overreaching federal government,” said Congressman Mooney. “I successfully led three budget proposals through the committee process that are now included in the final House budget released today. The first two will stop the President’s War on Coal in its tracks and the third cuts unnecessary federal spending.” “The President and his radical allies are intent on killing coal with new overreaching stream buffer and ozone standard regulations. Stopping new regulatory overreach from this administration is good policy for all hard-working taxpayers in West Virginia and my proposals included in the House budget will protect tens of thousands of coal jobs in West Virginia.” “I also proposed defunding the Legal Services Corporation, an agency which operates far outside its original mandate after decades absent of any congressional oversight,” said Congressman Mooney. Greater detail and key statistics on Congressman Mooney’s House Budget proposals can be found here. The House Budget will go through a final committee mark-up tomorrow and is expected to go to a floor vote before the entire House of Representatives next week. It is expected the Senate will pass their own budget and a conference committee will be established to reconcile the two. ###
03.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday March 13, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney Commends Passage of Constitutional Carry Law in State Legislature CHARLES TOWN, WV – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) commended members of the West Virginia Legislature who took a stand for constitutional rights by voting to pass SB 347, the Firearms Act of 2015. “I want to commend state legislators who voted in an overwhelmingly bi-partisan manner, 103-31 between the House and the Senate, for constitutional carry. Their vote protects the rights of responsible, law-abiding West Virginians.” “I urge Governor Tomblin to immediately sign this bill into law to cement West Virginia’s place as a true defender of constitutional rights for gun-owning citizens.” “Anti-gun politicians are determined to infringe on the 2nd Amendment rights of West Virginians and all Americans. News reports today indicate that former New York City Mayor and infamous gun-grabber Michael Bloomberg sent thousands of mail pieces into West Virginia attacking the legislators who supported constitutional carry.” “Those legislators should wear that attack as a badge of honor and I have a message for former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and his liberal anti-freedom allies: stay out of West Virginia.” “Law-abiding gun owners in West Virginia are collectors, hunters, farmers, sportsmen, and citizens who care about defending their families. As I pledged to the voters of the second district last year, I will continue to support constitutional carry legislation and all 2nd Amendment rights in Congress.” The West Virginia House of Delegates voted to pass SB 347 today, the State Senate passed the bill earlier in the week.
03.06.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday March 6, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney Praises State Legislature on Pain-Capable Veto Override WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) praised members of the West Virginia State Legislature for voting with large, bipartisan majorities to override Governor Tomblin’s veto of Pain-Capable legislation to ban abortion after 20 weeks. “Delegates and Senators in Charleston, from both parties, have taken bold action to protect the lives of the most defenseless among us. I want to congratulate the members of the legislature who supported this law for their dedication to protecting unborn babies, despite the veto from the Governor.” “I sincerely hope to see pain-capable legislation brought up this Congress so the protection can be expanded nationally.” The Senate vote to override the veto passed today with a 27-5 margin, clearing the bill to become law. Earlier in the week, the House of Delegates voted 77-16 on the override. House Bill 2568, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act outlaws all abortions after 20-weeks, or five months, of pregnancy when scientific consensus agrees a child is capable of feeling pain. Last week, the Washington Examiner published an Op Ed co-written by Congressman Mooney and Susan B. Anthony List President Marjorie Dannenfelser on the Pain-Capable issue. The Op Ed, entitled Midterm Election Clarified: Pro-Life Issue is a Winner, can be found here.
03.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday March 3, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Votes to Oppose President Obama’s Lawless Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex Mooney voted against a resolution which would allow funding for the President’s illegal executive amnesty. “In early February, I voted for and the House passed a bill which would have fully funded all legal functions of the Department of Homeland Security,” Congressman Mooney said. “Senate Democrats filibustered that bill for 15 days and again this week filibustered to prevent a conference committee between both the House and Senate to work out differences on the bill.” “That kind of obstruction to protect the President’s lawless executive amnesty represents the partisan games the American people are tired of seeing in Washington.” “I ardently oppose funding illegal unilateral action from President Obama and my vote today reflects that.” President Obama’s unilateral executive amnesty was ruled unconstitutional on February 17, 2015 by federal district court Judge Andrew Hanen in Texas. President Obama himself said on 22 occasions he did not have the lawful authority to grant executive amnesty. ###
03.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday March 2, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Thanks Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex Mooney welcomed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel back to Washington ahead of the Prime Minister’s address to a joint meeting of Congress tomorrow. “The nation of Israel and Prime Minister Netanyahu are great friends and key allies of our nation,” Congressman Mooney said. “I want to thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for coming to Washington to discuss the grave national security challenges our two nations face in the Middle East. The United States and Israel must rise to the occasion together to defeat radical Islamic terrorists and prevent the emergence of a nuclear Iran.” Congressman Mooney spoke from the floor of the House today to welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu and recognize the mutual threats to our two nations. View Congressman Mooney’s speech here: This is Prime Minister Netanyahu’s third appearance before a joint meeting of Congress, and first since Congressman Mooney took office. Three other Israeli prime ministers have addressed Congress including Ehud Olmert, Shimon Peres, and Yitzhak Rabin. ###
02.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday February 24, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Blasts President Obama on Keystone Veto – Implications for West Virginia WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Alex Mooney blasted President Obama’s veto of the Keystone XL Approval Act which passed both the House and Senate with wide bipartisan margins. “With the veto of the Keystone XL, President Obama has firmly planted his banner behind radical environmentalists. Republicans and Democrats came together this year and passed this common-sense bill to create thousands of new jobs and reduce energy prices for hardworking American families.” “President Obama’s obstructionism towards creating energy jobs continues to harm West Virginia. With multiple pipeline projects planned in our state, this veto must strengthen our resolve to continue to fight for good paying energy jobs in West Virginia.” Congressman Mooney was one of 30 cosponsors of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act and is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources.
02.17.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday February 17, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Statement on Mount Carbon Train Derailment and Information on Continuing Situation CHARLES TOWN, W.V. – “It is my sincere hope that as the derailment situation progresses we continue to avoid any serious or life-threatening injuries,” said Congressman Alex Mooney. “I believe the top priorities now are to protect downstream citizen’s clean drinking water and contain further spillage. I stand ready to work with first responders and federal regulators on the scene to determine the cause of the incident and to return evacuated residents to their homes as swiftly as safety allows." “My offices are ready to help with any citizens’ concerns or questions, if there is anything we can do please call us.” Charleston Office: (304) 925-5964 Martinsburg Office: (304) 264-8810 See below current information on shelters and resources which have been made available by a variety of organizations: CSX has opened a Community Outreach Center to address community needs, particularly of residents and businesses impacted by the evacuation. The center is located in the Glass-in Riverside Room at the Glen Ferris Inn, US Route 60, Glen Ferris, WV 25090. The center opened today Tuesday, February 17 at 8:00AM and will be open through 8:00PM daily More information can be found here: https://bit.ly/1JmSE2S Those who have been asked to evacuate their homes can find a listing of nearby evacuation locations below and at the following link as of 10:00 p.m. ET Monday: https://bit.ly/1Afplrm Valley High School: The Kanawha and Fayette County Emergency Management have opened the location for residents. The shelter will open at 6:30 p.m. West Virginia University Tech Gymnasium: Shelter will open at 6:30 p.m. Holiday Lodge, Oak Hill: CSX has rented out all available rooms at the Oak Hill hotel for residents to stay overnight. The lodge is located at 340 Oyler Ave. A Red Cross representative said the Armstrong Creek and Falls View Community Centers are also open for evacuees, but are not Red Cross sponsored centers with overnight accommodations. A conserve water advisory has been issued for Montgomery and Cedar Grove Water Systems. Updates from the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources can be found here: https://bit.ly/1CBIPF4
02.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday February 11, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney Says Enough is Enough – Time to Build Keystone XL WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) and the House of Representatives will vote to approve final passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The bill, having passed the House and Senate, will go to the President who has repeatedly threatened a veto. Congressman Mooney spoke today during debate on the bill saying in part*: “It is time for the President to stop pandering to radical environmentalists and do what is right for hardworking American families.” “The business community, organized labor, bipartisan majorities in Congress, and a clear majority of the American people support the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline.” “Mr. President, enough is enough. It is time to create 42,000 jobs and reduce energy prices for hardworking families, sign this bill into law; it is time to build the Keystone XL Pipeline.” Over the six years since the Keystone XL project was first submitted for approval, the State Department has conducted 22,000 pages worth of review. President Obama’s own State Department concluded the project would have no impact on carbon emissions, no negative environmental impact, and is in the best economic interest of the nation. Congressman Mooney is one of 30 co-sponsors of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act and is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. *Full video of Congressman Mooney speaking on the floor of the House can be seen here.
02.10.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday February 10, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Applauds Announcement of P&G Manufacturing Plant in Berkeley County WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Mooney applauded the announcement that Procter & Gamble plans to build a million square-foot manufacturing plant in Berkeley County. “I am excited to announce the Procter & Gamble Company project which promises to create over 1,000 construction jobs and 700 permanent, good-paying manufacturing jobs. This is great news for the people of the Eastern Panhandle who stand to benefit from tremendous economic growth as a result of this project.” “In Congress, I will continue fighting for policies to help manufacturing jobs take-off in West Virginia. Over the course of the last month, I supported legislation to make it easier for companies to hire veterans and to expedite government approval of permits for projects which create new jobs.” “I am happy to welcome the P&G Company to the Eastern Panhandle.”
02.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday February 9, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Announces 2nd District Participation in the Congressional Artistic Discovery Contest WASHINGTON, DC – Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation. Today, Congressman Mooney invited students from West Virginia’s 2nd district to participate. “This is a great opportunity to highlight the incredible talents of our young people in West Virginia. I encourage any student with an artistic interest to participate and make a submission,” said Congressman Mooney. The Artistic Discovery Contest is open to all high school students in the 2nd District. The winning artwork will be prominently displayed for one year in the halls of the U.S. Capitol and featured on House.gov's Congressional Art Competition page. In 2014 the winner from West Virginia’s 2nd district was Kaylee Icenhower of Ravenswood High School in Jackson County. Her submission was titled “Double-Sided”. District runners up were Cheney Hudson and Hailey Miller, also of Ravenswood High and Peyton Doling of Nitro High School in Kanawha County. The deadline to make a submission is Friday, April 10th 2015. A submission form and more details can be found at https://mooney.house.gov/services/art-competition.
02.03.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday February, 3, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney to Vote on Repeal and Replace of Obamacare WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) will vote for H.R. 596 to repeal Obamacare in its entirety. The bill calls on Congress to provide alternative, patient-centered healthcare solutions for the American people. “The President’s behemoth healthcare law has been a proven failure. Obamacare has driven up overall healthcare costs for families and small businesses, caused thousands of Americans to lose their doctors, and is projected to add trillions to the national debt.” “West Virginians deserve healthcare solutions which bring costs down for hardworking families and expand access to quality healthcare. Our state and the nation need more good jobs, not more federal government mandates.” “As I travel across the 2nd District, I repeatedly hear from constituents who are burdened by higher premiums and a confusing bureaucracy. Today, I am making good on my commitment to support a full repeal of Obamacare.”
02.02.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday February 2, 2015 CONTACT: Meredith Jones PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: meredith.jones@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Statement on White House Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement today on President Obama’s proposed 2015 budget. "As usual, the President is playing politics rather than offering serious solutions to the American people. The President’s irresponsible plan calls for nearly $4 trillion in federal spending while running a $474 billion deficit. The plan also calls for $320 billion in new taxes on the American people. The President’s plan for higher taxes and reckless spending will hurt hardworking taxpayers.” President Obama released details of his 2015 budget today and is expected to release the full budget plan later in the day. The nonpartisan Heritage Foundation projects the national debt would reach $25 trillion by 2024 under the President’s proposed plan. The current national debt is estimated at $18 trillion, which is roughly $56,000 for every citizen of the United States. The President’s budget includes $7.4 billion in alternative energy investment and permanent tax credits for solar and wind production. The proposal expands the War on Coal with a $4 billion fund to reward states for drastic carbon emission reductions. “The President’s plan provides tax breaks for his political allies in Washington while hardworking West Virginia taxpayers struggle to balance their household budgets.” “As a member of the House Budget Committee, I will use my position to advocate for a plan which actually balances the federal budget and provides relief for West Virginia families.”
01.29.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday January 29, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Co-Sponsors Legislation to Eliminate Tax on Seniors’ Social Security Benefits WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Alex Mooney co-sponsored the Senior Citizens Tax Elimination Act (H.R. 589). The legislation would eliminate the income tax on Social Security benefits, allowing West Virginia seniors to keep more of the Social Security income they have earned. "West Virginia seniors need relief from higher costs of living. Seniors have worked hard to earn their Social Security benefits and have already been taxed on their contributions to Social Security. The Federal Government’s tax on Social Security is a double-tax and its repeal would provide an immediate increase in benefits for our seniors." Under the proposed legislation, Social Security benefits would be designated untaxable and seniors would not be compelled to report the benefits as income on an individual tax return. “Our seniors have paid into the Social Security program throughout their lives and deserve to receive their full benefit without the federal government trying to take an extra slice of the pie.” Congressman Mooney joins lead sponsor Congressman Massie in supporting this legislation to provide immediate relief to seniors receiving Social Security benefits. The legislation is supported by the Association of Mature American Citizens.
01.28.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday January 28, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Mooney Commends State Lawmakers on Healthcare Exchange Legislation WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) commended the West Virginia Legislature for voting to place control of future healthcare exchange decisions at the state level. “West Virginians have had enough of the President’s onerous healthcare law which has caused monthly premiums to skyrocket and thousands to lose their insurance plans. Hardworking West Virginia taxpayers deserve to keep their doctors and manage their family budgets without mandates from the federal government. Yesterday, legislation was passed in Charleston to allow West Virginia to better determine its own healthcare future. This is a great step towards providing a better future for our citizens.” West Virginia currently operates its healthcare exchange in a partnership with the federal government. The legislation passed yesterday would give the state legislature the ability to set up a state controlled exchange. A state exchange would have greater autonomy in protecting the interests of West Virginia taxpayers. “On the federal level, I came right out of the gate in the new Congress with a one-two punch to provide West Virginia families and small businesses immediate relief from Obamacare. I was proud to co-sponsor legislation to restore the 40-hour work week and repeal the Medical Device Tax – two of the worst elements of Obamacare. I will continue to support bills to dismantle the disaster that is Obamacare as l work towards a full repeal.”
01.23.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday January 23, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Supported Successful Passage of No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) supported the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act to outlaw federal funds from directly or indirectly funding abortion in the United States. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives. "We are a nation whose values are emulated around the world by people seeking freedom, justice and protection for human rights under the rule of law. That is why I am proud to support this legislation to outlaw federal funding of any abortion." "Moreover a clear majority of Americans and West Virginians support a ban on federal dollars for abortions, including for federal insurance coverage of abortions." "I pray this legislation will pass and become law for the protection of the most defenseless among us." The passage of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act in the House coincided with the 42nd Anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision.
01.20.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday January 20, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney Responds to the President’s State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, DC –Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. A tapped rebuttal from Congressman Mooney can be seen at www.mooney.house.gov. “The Republican House, with support from many Democrats, has passed legislation on the priorities of the American people. The House has voted to authorize construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline, restore the definition of a full-time work week to 40 hours rather than 30, and exempt veterans and first responders from the employer mandate of Obamacare. We chose to begin the year empowering hard-working taxpayers.” “Unfortunately, President Obama has shown tonight that he is entrenched behind Washington gridlock for the sake of partisan politics. Rather than support common sense ideas to create more opportunity for all Americans, the President continues to use unilateral executive action to push his allies’ radical agenda. The President has promised to use his veto power to halt the implementation of policies such as the Keystone XL Pipeline, which the American people strongly support.” “This intransigence has real world consequences for the people of West Virginia. The energy industry in our state is under assault by the President’s EPA. Everyone supports clean air and water, but the President’s EPA has declared war on West Virginian jobs to please activists and special interests in Washington. The Republican Congress and I want to empower American families to safely seek prosperity from our natural bounty. We support policies to lower energy prices, create jobs, and encourage investment in a secure energy future for our nation.” “In his speech, the President also attempted to reignite class warfare by proposing damaging new tax hikes. I believe this is an insult to the American people who last November demanded cooperation and common sense policies rather than useless rhetoric.” “The President should stand ready to work with the Republican conference which has a bold vision to empower hard-working taxpayers rather than the federal government. If the President cannot let go of his desire for partisan gridlock, we must fight for the votes to override the President’s vetoes of critical legislation. We need bipartisan cooperation.” “The Republicans in Congress and I will continue to fight and seek consensus in the coming weeks for a fairer, simpler tax code, more educational opportunities for young people, and flexibility for families in the workplace. It is my sincere hope that despite the rhetoric, the President will work with Congress for a better future.”
01.16.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday January 15, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Appointed to Influential Sub-Committees on Natural Resources WASHINGTON, DC – Chairman Rob Bishop (UT-1) of the House Committee on Natural Resources announced the appointment today of Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) to the Energy and Mineral Subcommittee and the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee on Natural Resources. “I am very excited to get to work on these committees whose purpose is so critical to West Virginia. Our state is blessed to be abundant in natural resources. I look forward to using my position on these committees fighting so that West Virginians are able to safely seek prosperity from our natural bounty.” The primary function of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources is to administer policy on mining and energy production on federal lands, both on and offshore. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation is a newly created committee with the purpose of overseeing the regulatory agencies of the Executive Branch. “Given the radical environmentalist record of President Obama’s EPA, this new committee will be critical in protecting West Virginian jobs from arbitrary and over-reaching regulatory bureaucrats. Everyone supports clean air and water, but the President’s EPA has declared war on West Virginian jobs to please activists and special interests in Washington. I look forward to serving as a relentless voice to rein in the EPA and protect jobs in West Virginia.”
01.14.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday January 13, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Blasts President Obama’s Continued Foreign Policy Collapse WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) strongly condemned President Obama’s handling of foreign affairs in the aftermath of his unilateral action on Cuba and the failure to show solidarity with the French people in the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack. “Following the President’s conspicuous absence in Paris and a long track record of bowing to our enemies, I think it is clear the President is more interested in pleasing our enemies than standing strong with our allies.” In a speech during a Special Session of Congress last night, Congressman Mooney joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in expressing opposition to the President’s efforts to normalize relations with the Communist Cuban government: “Mr. Speaker, President Obama has senselessly yielded ground, with no stipulations for reform, to the Cuban regime with the announcement of a secret deal, going around Congress, to “normalize” relations. This misguided grab for a legacy item has cost our country and the Cuban people a valuable bargaining chip for their freedom. “Of course this is yet another foreign policy failure or, more accurately, unilateral surrender from this administration; from the bright red line in Syria, which was crossed with impunity, to sending a secret message to President Putin that “after the election I will be more flexible”, to now rewarding tyrants in Cuba who continue to deny basic human rights to their oppressed citizens; President Obama had chosen bad policy.” “The despotic government the President would normalize relations with has for decades sought to subjugate the Cuban people’s appetite for freedom. The many realized American dreams of Cuban refugees, including my mother, are a great testament to the greatness of the United States and our constitutional rights. As the beacon of freedom in the world, we must continue to use sensible policy to protect those values around the world and in our own backyard.” Congressman Mooney’s mother, Eulalia Mooney, was born and raised in Cuba where, at the age of 21, she was thrown in jail for seven weeks for speaking out against the Communist Regime of Fidel Castro. After her release, she fled to the United States as a political refugee.
01.13.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday January 13, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Email: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Introduces Legislation to Protect Coal Jobs WASHINGTON, DC – On the four-year anniversary of the EPA’s job-killing decision to retroactively veto a permit issued to Spruce No. 1 Mine by the Army Corps of Engineers, Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) has introduced legislation with the entire West Virginia delegation to close the loophole which allowed it. “President Obama’s EPA has proven time and again it is totally out of control and willing to shutter thousands of jobs for the sake of pleasing radical environmentalists. Coal remains a critical piece of the American energy portfolio and the economy of West Virginia. The President’s so called “war on coal” is nothing short of a war on West Virginian jobs and his EPA must be reined in.” In January of 2011 the EPA retroactively revoked an Army Corps of Engineers Clean Water Act 404 permit granted to the Spruce No. 1 Mine in Logan County four years before. This action was unprecedented, and represents the first time in the EPA’s history that the Agency has retroactively withdrawn a water permit for a mining project. This legislation would deny the EPA the authority to override an existing Army Corps of Engineers permit. The EPA’s action in 2011 halted a plan for $250 million in additional investment in the Spruce Mine which was expected to create approximately 200 new, quality jobs. “Everyone supports clean water and air but the EPA has taken its mandate far into the realm of extreme environmentalist activism. The passage of this legislation would signal potential investors in West Virginian energy jobs that the process is more predictable.” Congressman Alex Mooney introduced the legislation alongside Congressmen David McKinley (WV-1) and Evan Jenkins (WV-3). Corresponding legislation is expected to be filed in the Senate by Senators Shelley Moore Capito and Joe Manchin.
01.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday January 9, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 EMAIL: jon.conradi@mail.house.gov Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Co-Sponsors Bill to Authorize Keystone XL Pipeline WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) has co-sponsored the bill expected to be voted on by the U.S. House of Representatives today to authorize construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. This will mark the tenth time the Republican House has voted to pass the project which promises to bring thousands of jobs to the interior of our nation and dramatically improve our energy infrastructure. The Republican Senate is also expected to swiftly consider authorizing construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. “Energy infrastructure is not only a critical component of West Virginia's future but of the future economic security of the United States. I fully support building the Keystone XL pipeline and I am proud to join my colleagues in voting to authorize its construction; despite the political posturing of the President.” Earlier this week the President indicated he would veto legislation authorizing the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline despite the expectation the bill will is supported by business groups, organized labor, bipartisan majorities of Congress, and a majority of the American people. “This is exactly the kind of obstructionism the American people are tired of from their government. This past fall they spoke clearly on the priorities they want to see addressed by their representatives. When Keystone passes the House and Senate I hope the President will reconsider his pledge to extremist environmentalists and will sign this bill into law for the good of the American people.” “Rolling back the President’s, and his EPA’s, wider war on American energy is a top priority for me. West Virginians’ jobs and quality of life are intricately tied to energy infrastructure, exploration, and development. It is time the President and the EPA get out of the way and allow the people of our state access to the prosperity their natural resources can grant them.” Congressman Mooney is a Member of the House Natural Resources Committee, and has co-sponsored the bill alongside Rep. Kevin Kramer of North Dakota.
01.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday January 8, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Appointed to Important House Committee on the Budget WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) has been appointed to serve on the important House Committee on the Budget. "One of my top priorities in office will be fighting for a balanced Federal budget. It is totally unacceptable for West Virginians to have to make changes to their household budgets because of static wages, higher costs of living and a still recovering economy while the Federal government continues to allow it’s spending and debt to run rampant.” “I intend to use my position on this committee to serve as a relentless voice for fiscal conservatism and responsible budgeting. I look forward to helping make Washington finally live within its means.” On Congressman Mooney’s appointment to the House Budget Committee Chairman Price released the following statement: "We face tremendous challenges in our efforts to balance the budget, encourage economic growth and job creation. That will require real leadership, and I'm grateful Congressman Mooney is ready and willing to serve on the House Budget Committee as we move forward with positive solutions. I appreciate his service and look forward to working with him."
01.08.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday January 8, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Statement on the Passing of Governor Arch Moore WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) released the following statement on the passing of Governor Arch Moore. “Grace and I want to offer our deepest condolences to Senator Capito and her family on the passing of her father Governor Arch Moore. I pray the Lord will provide comfort to Senator Capito’s family during this time of loss and strengthen their hearts with happy memories of an adored leader.” “Governor Arch Moore broke through historic barriers to become an effective and widely popular leader. His success paved the way for the future of the Republican Party in West Virginia and left an example for those who followed in his path. As a public servant he was passionate about West Virginia and his charismatic presence, across a nearly forty-year public service career, will be fondly remembered.”
01.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Wednesday January 7, 2015 CONTACT: Meredith Jones PHONE: 202-225-2711 Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) to Co-Sponsor the Federal Reserve Transparency Act WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) will co-sponsor the Federal Reserve Transparency Act known as the Audit the Fed Bill. "The Federal Reserve has a tremendous amount of power over the currency and economy of our nation. It is only proper the monetary policies of the Fed be subject to oversight by the independent and nonpartisan Government Accountability Office and the Congress of the United States. The Federal Reserve was created by the Congress and therefore is subject to regulation by the representatives of the people.” The Federal Reserve Transparency Act will allow the GAO and Congress greater access to important information regarding the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve. “The Federal Reserve has an incredibly large direct influence over the pocketbook issues most important to West Virginians. The value of the dollar impacts everyday West Virginians who are struggling to afford higher costs of living. It is only proper the representatives of the people and GAO, the primary ethics office of the nation, have the ability to fully review Federal Reserve policy. I am committed to making all level of government for accountable and transparent for our citizens so the people we serve may have trust in their government.” Congressman Mooney will co-sponsor the bill alongside sponsor Congressman Massie of Kentucky.
01.07.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday January 6, 2015 CONTACT: Jon Conradi PHONE: 202-225-2711 Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) Sworn in to Represent West Virginia’s 2nd Congressional District WASHINGTON, DC – Republican Congressman Alex Mooney (WV-2) was sworn in to his first term in office today by Speaker John Boehner at the U.S. Capitol. "I want to humbly thank the people of the 2nd congressional district of West Virginia for entrusting me with the honor of representing them in the Congress of the United States. Our nation and the state of West Virginia face many important hurdles. I look forward to bringing West Virginian values to the national conversation on these issues.” “West Virginia is blessed to be abundant in natural resources and patriotic citizens. I will work hard every day for West Virginian priorities and to bring jobs back to our state. I intend to spend much of my time in office back home in Charles Town with my wife and children, rather than in Washington, close to the needs of the citizens I have been elected to serve.” Congressman Mooney was elected to represent West Virginia’s 2nd congressional district on November 4, 2014 and has been appointed to serve on two important and influential committees: the House Committee on Natural Resources and the House Committee on the Budget. The 2nd congressional district of West Virginia includes the counties of: Berkeley, Braxton, Calhoun, Clay, Hampshire, Hardy, Jackson, Jefferson, Kanawha, Lewis, Morgan, Pendleton, Putnam, Randolph, Roane, Upshur and Wirt.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
