02.11.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement responding to Congresswoman Ilhan Omar’s (D-MN) comments on Israel: “The rhetoric used by Congresswoman Ilhan Omar earlier is deeply concerning and implies that any Member who supports the safety and prosperity of our ally Israel is incapable of resisting outside influences. The United States and Israel have a deep history of shared values and mutual interests. I respect everyone’s first amendment right to freely express themselves, it is and will always remain the cornerstone of democracy. I sincerely hope Congresswoman Omar would use her new seat in the House of Representatives to meet with the communities of all backgrounds and faiths before jumping to conclusions about her own colleagues’ motives.”
02.11.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires reintroduced H.R. 1131, the Collaborative Academic Research Efforts (CARE) for Tourette Syndrome Act of 2019 to expand and increase the coordination of Tourette syndrome research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Congressman Sires is joined by Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA) as original cosponsors. “I am proud to reintroduce legislation that aims to help the lives of those affected by this syndrome which is too often stigmatized and misunderstood,” stated Congressman Sires. “The NIH’s work is critical for advancing our understanding of disorders and diseases that impact thousands of Americans daily. Expanded and collaborative research will enable us to provide greater insight into the causes of this disorder, in search of better treatments.” Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics. The NIH estimates that 200,000 Americans suffer from the most severe form of Tourette syndrome. The CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act would seek to improve the daily life of those living with Tourette syndrome and their families by expanding and coordinating research efforts on the disorder to advance our understanding of it. The bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a new system to collect data on Tourette syndrome and award grants to establish new Centers of Excellence focused on Tourette syndrome research. The centers would conduct research on the cause, early detection, and diagnosis along with prevention, control and treatment of Tourette syndrome. “The NIH does critical research on Tourette’s Syndrome to understand this disease and search for a cure,” expressed Congressman Cohen. “As a co-chair and founder of the Congressional Tourette Syndrome Caucus, I’m pleased to join my colleagues in expanding and increasing the research funding in this bill.” “There is no known cause for Tourette Syndrome, nor is there a medication available that completely eliminates symptoms. But this legislation offers hope. It will help further the work of dedicated scientists who aim to improve the lives of the individuals and families afflicted with TS. I’m proud to support this important step forward,” said Congressman Engel. The full text of H.R. 1131 can be found here.
02.08.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman John Dingell “I am saddened to hear of the passing of Congressman John Dingell, who was the longest serving member of the House of Representatives. The Congressman’s legacy will live on here in the halls of Capitol Hill and throughout all the lives he touched. I would like to wish my sincerest condolences to Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and all of their friends and family. Mr. Dingell’s presence will be sorely missed.”
02.07.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ) joined new and returning Members of Congress for the first meeting of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. As the senior-most representative from New Jersey on the Committee, Congressman Sires is in a unique position to advance the interests of the State of New Jersey and the priorities of New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District. “I am proud to continue my service on the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. My district, and our State, is home to some of the Northeastern United States’ most vital transportation infrastructure,” said Congressman Sires. “Any federal infrastructure initiative will go through our committee and I am determined to ensure that New Jersey is well-served by a potential bill. The 116th Congress will be taking on the challenges of infrastructure repair, and I am ready to do my part for New Jersey.” Along with being present for all matters considered by the full committee, Congressman Sires will be serving on the Railroads, Pipelines, & Hazardous Materials Subcommittee, and the Highways & Transit Subcommittee.
02.07.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires officially recognized Juan Guaidó as the constitutionally legitimate Interim President of Venezuela and called for swift elections in the country. “In the battle between dictatorship and democracy, we must stand on the side of the Venezuelan people, who are demanding change. Maduro’s reelection was widely denounced as a sham, including by the Organization of American States and the European Union. Venezuela’s Constitution clearly states that when there is no duly elected president, the head of the National Assembly, in this case Juan Guaidó, becomes the interim leader. The National Assembly is the only remaining institution in Venezuela whose current members were democratically elected. The U.S. has joined nearly 50 countries in recognizing the government of Juan Guaidó and calling for a return to democracy. This is a global effort to help the Venezuelan people reclaim their freedom and fundamental rights. A Guaidó-led transition must promptly lead to new elections that are free, fair and transparent. Maduro has overseen an economic and political collapse that is unprecedented in our hemisphere. With inflation surpassing 1 million percent, nearly 90% of Venezuelans are living in poverty. The country’s homicide rate rivals that of war zones and there are massive shortages of food and medicine. Over three million Venezuelans have already fled the country in a mass exodus that is impacting the entire region. Yet Maduro has responded to the humanitarian crisis with brutal repression, locking up thousands of protesters and dissidents and deploying his security officials and gangs to carry out forced disappearances and torture. While the Venezuelan people suffer, Maduro and his cronies have enriched themselves through money laundering, the drug trade, and plundering the country’s gold reserves. It is time for Venezuelans to reclaim the mantle of democracy; it’s time for Maduro’s reign of terror to come to an end.”
02.06.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement following the President’s State of the Union Address last night: “Last night, the President made a sweeping speech addressing a range of issues essential to the American public and called for greater unity in government. However, in his speech, he failed to present real achievable solutions that will bolster American security, prosperity, and well-being. I appreciate that the President mentioned the need to revitalize our nation’s infrastructure, as much of our infrastructure is in a state of critical disrepair that poses a threat to the safety of our communities and the efficiency of our economy. This Administration continues to espouse rhetoric about rebuilding our infrastructure, but words are not enough - now is the time to act. The Administration has failed to propose a realistic solution to the infrastructure crisis. The White House’s previous infrastructure proposal was merely an outline short on details and unrealistic in scope. The nation cannot endure much longer without a comprehensive infrastructure investment. My district knows this need well. We are home to a key section of the Northeast Corridor, which still operates on century-old infrastructure. Without federal assistance, we will not be able to repair and upgrade the Hudson River Tunnels that see nonstop traffic and generate billions of dollars in yearly economic activity. I hope that the President will commit to his call for bipartisan action on infrastructure and work with Congress to draft a bill that addresses our nation’s aging infrastructure. Unfortunately, we once again witnessed once again the President’s bombastic and fear-mongering rhetoric directed at immigrants, many of whom who have sacrificed everything to flee a life of violence. Diversity is one of our greatest strengths and relying on falsehoods to push an ineffective policy that runs counter to American’s founding ideals is not the immigration reform we need. Our country was built on the contributions of immigrant communities, and any proposals to change the system must offer meaningful reforms and solutions to the actual challenges of immigration policy. The President says he welcomes immigrants who come here legally, yet consistently advances policies which contradict this sentiment. Under this Administration, we have seen the number of immigrant visas decline and changes to the high-skilled worker visa program which have created new disruptions in the process. Additionally, the President has placed new limits on asylum seekers that make it more difficult for innocent families fleeing persecution. If the President is truly committed to addressing immigration in our country, he will work with Congress to propose legislation that focuses on effectual reforms. This is the beginning of a new Congress and a new year. The President says he stands ready to work with Congress to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. While I hope this is true, actions speak louder than words and I look forward to seeing if the President can commit to being a reliable partner in improving the lives of all Americans.”
02.06.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, a bill introduced by Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) was passed by the House of Representatives and reported to the Senate for consideration. The bill, H.R. 543, requires the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to provide Congress with notice of when a comprehensive safety assessment is being conducted on an intercity or commuter rail transit agency that serves their district, was debated and passed without objection. “This bill is an important step towards rail transparency because it brings cohesion to the federal government’s oversight role,” said Congressman Sires. “As a Member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I take my responsibility to keep my district’s rail commuters safe seriously. We must live up to our role of preventing and mitigating rail accidents around the country.” In the wake of the tragic 2016 New Jersey Transit accident in Hoboken, New Jersey which killed a young mother and injured over 100 people, FRA revealed that it had been conducting a comprehensive safety assessment on NJ Transit for months. “My constituents and I should not have learned about this issue only after a fatal accident occurred. This legislation makes it so that no one is caught by surprise by an unsafe rail transit agency and ensures coordination between safety agencies and Congress.”
02.05.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement leading up to the President’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Trump will address Congress and the nation, and I expect he might touch on important topics such as health care, immigration, and the economy, all while calling for bipartisanship and unity in government. However, unity is only truly possible when there is a reliable partner in the White House, whose word means something and is actually indicative of intent. Time and again, the President has proven he is an unfit and unwilling partner in governance by regularly breaking promises and failing to act in the best interest of the nation. The President’s policies have failed the American middle class and instead caters to the wealthiest and most-connected in our country. He forced a 35-day partial government shutdown out of obstinance, jeopardizing the financial well-being and stability of American families, and costing the American economy nearly $11 billion. He pushed a $2 trillion tax plan that benefitted big corporations, banks, and top-tier earners at the expense of deductions essential for seniors, students, and middle-class families. Furthermore, the Administration has aggressively continued the attack on American’s health care by promoting junk insurance plans, rolling back protections for women’s reproductive health, and targeting individuals with pre-existing conditions. Rather than work in a good-faith effort to pursue compromises that promote the livelihood and well-being of American communities, the President continues to use falsehoods and fear to promote ineffective policy. In this new year, it is my hope that the Administration will work with Congress in the best interest of the American people.”
02.05.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement after the announcement of undocumented workers being terminated at several Trump National Golf Club locations: “President Trump may log onto Twitter and denounce the value of immigrant communities, but today’s reports prove that his wealth was built on the backs of undocumented workers. Terminating at least 18 employees today, and throwing their lives into chaos, is a cruel way to cover up the hypocrisy of flaunting the E-Verify system that is now his political crutch. Intelligent, compassionate immigration reform is desperately needed for America. Prejudice and falsehoods must fall to the wayside, and we must grapple with the actual realities of immigration in our country.”
01.31.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires joined Congresswoman Donna Shalala (D-FL) in introducing her first bill titled “the Venezuela Arms Restriction Act,” bipartisan legislation to prohibit the export of defense articles and crime control materials from the United States to the security forces of Venezuela. These tools are often used by the illegitimate Maduro regime to attack its own people, often with lethal consequences. "We cannot allow Nicolás Maduro to continue to steamroll democracy and act with impunity,” said Rep. Shalala. “The people of Venezuela have spoken and demanded that Maduro to step down, but their peaceful efforts have led Maduro’s security forces to resort to violence in the streets of Venezuela, as they often have since Maduro took power. Our bill will ensure that crowd control items, like riot gear and tear gas, will not be placed in the hands of Maduro’s cronies and security forces and used against peaceful protestors. I thank my Republican and Democratic colleagues for joining our effort to help bring peace and freedom to Venezuela.” Under the Maduro regime’s gross mismanagement, Venezuela’s once thriving economy has collapsed and its people are sicker, poorer, and less free. Since coming to power in 2013 after the death of leader Hugo Chavez, Maduro has undermined Venezuela’s democratic institutions. In May 2018, he won a snap election that has been widely acknowledged by the international community as being illegitimate. Currently, the National Assembly of Venezuela is the only remaining legitimate democratic institution within the country, with Juan Guaidó, the president of the National Assembly, recognized as the interim president of the country until free and fair elections are held. On Jan. 23, millions of Venezuelans took to the streets in Caracas and around the world to protest the authoritarian regime of Nicolas Maduro, while demanding a return to democracy, respect for human rights, and basic needs, like access to food and medicine. Tragically, at least 40 protesters have died in recent protests, according to the United Nations Human Rights Office. These individuals paid the ultimate price and were killed at the hands of Maduro’s special forces for peacefully calling for a democratic Venezuela. Some of the items included in the legislation are already restricted by virtue of an annual determination, since 2006, that Venezuela does cooperate fully with U.S. anti-terrorism efforts. This legislation codifies these restrictions and adds articles that are used for crime control such as tear gas and riot gear. Joining Rep. Shalala in introducing the bill are Representatives Albio Sires (NJ-08), Mario Díaz-Balart (FL-25), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Jennifer González Colón (PR), Darren Soto (FL-09), Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), and Debbie Mucarsel-Powell (FL-26). “Maduro and his cronies have built a despotic regime that rules using fear, corruption, oppression, and violence against an unarmed civilian population that seeks to restore democracy and peace to their country. The Venezuelan people have rejected Maduro’s illegitimate reign, and the United States must support their attempts to peacefully rebuild their nation,” said Rep. Albio Sires. “Russia and Cuba, who have consistently propped up Maduro and enabled his tyrannical abuses have blood on their hands by continually providing support to this autocrat. I am proud to cosponsor this bipartisan proposal led by Congresswoman Donna Shalala, which will ensure that no U.S. made articles inadvertently end up in the hands of the Maduro regime to be used against the Venezuelan people.” “As the Venezuelan people continue to courageously call for free, fair, and democratic elections, we must carefully ensure that no tools originating in the United States may be used by Maduro’s thugs to silence the opposition. Donning riot gear, utilizing tear gas, and other tools of intimidation to quell protests are common practices for Maduro’s security and armed forces,” said Rep. Díaz-Balart. “The U.S. Congress continues to support the Venezuelan people in denying resources to the brutal Maduro regime. Venezuelans have made it abundantly clear: Maduro is illegitimate, and it is time for a democratic transition under the leadership of constitutionally interim President, Juan Guaidó. I am proud to support this bipartisan legislation, and look forward to continue working with my colleagues in support of the Venezuelan people and their democratic aspirations.” “For years, Nicolas Maduro used the weapons of force and anti-democratic processes to maintain power over the Venezuelan people, resulting in a painful decline into chaos, suffering and starvation. The Venezuela Arms Restriction Act would make it harder for Maduro’s security forces to bully the Venezuelan people, by preventing the export of tear gas, riot gear and other weapons of intimidation that his regime uses to silence dissent and strangle democracy,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “We must support the brave men and women in Venezuela who are fighting for democracy, dignity, and a brighter future. The U.S. and the international community should stand with the people of Venezuela who want to restore freedom and democracy in their country, and this bill is a good step toward achieving that,” said Rep. Murphy. “The Venezuela Arms Restriction Act builds on what the Administration and Congress have done to further isolate the Maduro regime from receiving any assistance that may be used to oppress the people of Venezuela,” said Rep. González Colón. “Since the election of Juan Guaido, Maduro has been desperate to cling on to power and has ordered his security forces to double down on repressing and targeting innocent civilians, including children. Whether it is through prohibiting surveillance equipment or defense articles to go to Maduro or through additional sanctions against his inner circle, we must stand strong in our commitment to support Venezuelans’ constitutional right to free, fair and transparent elections. This bipartisan bill will continue to maintain the pressure on the regime while also sending a clear message to Russia, Cuba, and Iran that the U.S. will remain vigilant in their actions to enable Maduro and his abuses.” “I am proud that as a delegation and as a caucus we are working together to simultaneously lift up the Venezuelan people and restrict the tools Maduro’s regime has been using to attack and suppress Venezuelans. I have stood by the Venezuelan people in their struggle to restore their democracy. No American should – knowingly or unknowingly – be complicit in providing Maduro’s regime tools to continue his oppression. I’m honored to join Representative Shalala in this effort,” said Rep. Mucarsel-Powell. The full text of the bill can be found HERE.
01.29.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires was elected to serve as Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade for the 116th Congress by his peers on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Sires has served as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee since the 113th Congress and has been a member of the Subcommittee throughout the duration of his tenure in the House of Representatives since 2006. “I am honored that my colleagues on the Committee have entrusted me with the responsibility to lead this Subcommittee and I would like to thank them for their continued support. This region is deeply personal to me and many of my constituents. It is also a critical component of our foreign policy and national security considerations. As Chairman I look forward to working with the Ranking Member and the rest of the Subcommittee in bolstering U.S. relations throughout the Western Hemisphere and working with our neighbors to promote peace, security and prosperity in the region. It is essential that we continue addressing the ongoing challenges the Hemisphere faces, including the protection of human rights, combatting violence and corruption, strengthening democracy, and examining the root causes of migration. Additionally, my colleagues and I will work to hold the Administration accountable for its foreign policy decisions, and the impact they have on the Hemisphere.” The Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the countries in South America, North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. Additionally, this Subcommittee will conduct oversight of matters relating to international economic and trade policy, and civilian security, including transnational organized crime and preventing violence by state or non-state actors. Other Democrats serving with Congressman Sires on the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere include Congressman Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Congressman Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Congressman Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Congressman Dean Phillips (D-MN), Congressman Andy Levin (D-MI), Congressman Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Congressman Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX). Congressman Sires was also selected to continue to serve as a member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, Energy and the Environment.
01.28.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ), Representative Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Representative Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), and Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) sent a letter from the New Jersey congressional delegation to Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Elaine Chao in support of the Hudson Tunnel Project. The letter, which included 9 Members of the New Jersey delegation, urges the Secretary to move the Project forward and not allow long delays or government shutdowns to continue affecting this critical infrastructure plan. The Hudson Tunnel Project, which aims to replace a century-old tunnel system that serves 200,000 daily passengers, is the most urgent transportation infrastructure project in the country. However, before construction on the project can advance, DOT must approve the Project’s environmental impact review. One of the required transit agencies has completed its environmental review so, in accordance with President Trump’s “One Federal Direction” (OFD) policy, this letter joins Chairman Zaro in urging DOT to move the project forward. “My regional colleagues and I have been advocating for repairing and upgrading the Hudson River Tunnels, which serves 200,000 daily passengers,” said Congressman Sires. “The final environmental impact statement is important and has been reviewed by federal transit agency. DOT should adhere to its commitment to eliminate duplication among agencies.” “The New Jersey delegation has been demanding for a long time to get the Hudson River Tunnels repaired and upgraded for the 21st century,” said Rep. Pascrell. “I’m proud to continue to lead in this fight with Congressman Sires. We cannot let shutdowns and administrative delays get in the way of advancing the ball on this critical project.” “The Hudson Tunnel project is critical to our nation and our region’s economy, mobility, and quality of life. Our local stakeholders worked hard to deliver a thorough and timely environmental review to the Department of Transportation for its approval, but despite those good-faith efforts, that review has been languishing with DOT for nearly a year now,” said U.S. Senator Bob Menendez. “There’s no reason for the DOT to delay this project further. We’re sitting on a transportation ticking time bomb, and we don’t have the luxury of time to waste.” In April 2018, DOT was one of several federal agencies to enter a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to establish timely processing of environmental reviews for major infrastructure projects and “eliminate duplication of effort among agencies.” On December 10, 2018, 12 days before the most recent government shutdown began, the Federal Railroad Administration completed its review of the Project’s environmental impact statement and sent it to the Federal Transit Administration for review. The most recent shutdown shuttered the agency, putting a stop to the environmental review and preventing the Hudson Tunnel Project from advancing.
01.25.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) issued the following statement regarding the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) temporarily halting flights into New York’s LaGuardia Airport and reports of severe delays at numerous other airports: “The shutdown has severely impacted air traffic controllers and other aviation safety specialists who are being placed in an increasingly stressful situation as the shutdown continues. The grounding at LaGuardia Airport and the reports of severe delays at Newark Liberty International Airport are further signs of a system that is breaking down, and the staff shortages that caused these delays are a direct result of the shutdown. Continuing the shutdown would put at risk the wellbeing of aviation workers, passengers, and the economy. Once again, we are witnessing the disastrous impacts of a shutdown that has gone on for far too long.”
01.23.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding Juan Guaidó declaring himself interim President of Venezuela. Juan Guaidó currently serves as President of the legitimately elected Venezuela National Assembly. “Maduro’s illegitimate re-election cemented him as an authoritarian leader of Venezuela. He created a political vacuum where the National Assembly serves as the only legitimately elected political body in the country. His regime has left the Venezuelan people destitute through rampant inflation, economic collapse, the deterioration of democratic institutions, and the oppression of human rights,” said Congressman Sires. “It is my hope that Mr. Guaidó will commit to restoring democracy to Venezuela and respect basic civil liberties and the rule of law. It is time for the Venezuelan people to be represented by a democratic government. It is imperative that Venezuelans and their allies around the world work toward holding free, fair, and transparent elections, ushering in a new era of Venezuelan democracy.”
01.23.2019	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the ongoing protests in Venezuela: “Today marks the 61st anniversary of the Venezuelan people standing together and ousting an oppressive dictatorship. Now, we see the next generation of Venezuelans rising up and fighting for their human rights and their freedoms. It is clear the socialist experiment in Venezuela has failed, leading Maduro and his cronies to think only of themselves and their bank accounts. The Venezuelan people have suffered enough; forced to flee their homes, suffering from starvation, and unable to find basic goods or medicines. I stand in solidarity with the Venezuelan people as they push for a return to democracy and accountability for Maduro and his regime’s years of abuses. It is long past time for Venezuela to put this dark chapter behind them and begin the process of rebuilding their country.”
01.20.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent attack in Bogotá, Colombia, where Marxist rebels from the National Liberation Army (ELN) targeted a police academy, killing 21 people. “Last week’s bombing in Bogotá was a senseless and cowardly attack against innocent Colombian people. It is unacceptable, but unfortunately not surprising the Cuban regime is protecting ELN leadership by not returning them to the Colombian government to face justice. Colombia’s democracy is strong, and if the ELN leaders have nothing to hide, they should return to Bogotá and avail themselves of the justice system. The Cuban regime should stop standing in the way of due process and allow the families of the victims to seek justice for their loved ones.
01.18.2019	(Washington D.C.) – On January 18, 2019, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) made the following statement after joining Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor, and 181 House colleagues in introducing the Raise the Wage Act. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of (bill #). Millions of families face an increased cost of living and the minimum wage is simply not keeping up,” stated Rep. Sires. “This will benefit millions across the country, including over one million people in New Jersey, by increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024.” The Raise the Wage Act of 2019 would gradually raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024, then, starting in 2025, index the minimum wage to match median wage growth. This legislation would help to reduce poverty and ensure that more working people have more money to spend on essential goods and services. Since the last minimum wage increase in 2009 to $7.25 an hour, the purchasing power of minimum wage workers has diminished by 15 percent due to inflation. This bill would increase wages for over 40 million people, 30 percent of the workforce, as well as, 1.2 million people in New Jersey, about a quarter of the state’s workforce.
01.18.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, the House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly to prevent the Administration from lifting sanction on companies owned by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian oligarc Yesterday’s vote shows that Democrats and Republicans in the House of Representatives strongly oppose attempts to lift sanctions on bad actors,” stated Rep. Sires. “The sanctions were placed on Oleg Deripaska and his companies last year in response to Russian attempts to interfere in our elections. This is a serious offense and the Trump Administration is being irresponsible in their plan to roll back sanctions. It is my hope that the strong bipartisan disapproval will cause them to reconsider.” H.J.Res.30 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 362-53 and would overturn the Treasury Department’s decision to roll back sanctions on companies associated with Deripaska. Deripaska has deep ties to Vladimir Putin and was among those sanctioned last year in response to Russian aggression and attempts to interfere in our elections. A similar effort failed on a procedural vote in the Senate.
01.18.2019	(Washington D.C.) – On January 18, 2019, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) made the following statement after joining Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the House Committee on Education and Labor, and 181 House colleagues in introducing the Raise the Wage Act. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor this important legislation. Millions of families face an increased cost of living and the minimum wage is simply not keeping up,” stated Rep. Sires. “This will benefit millions across the country, including over one million people in New Jersey, by increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024.” The Raise the Wage Act of 2019 would gradually raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024, then, starting in 2025, index the minimum wage to match median wage growth. This legislation would help to reduce poverty and ensure that more working people have more money to spend on essential goods and services. Since the last minimum wage increase in 2009 to $7.25 an hour, the purchasing power of minimum wage workers has diminished by 15 percent due to inflation. This bill would increase wages for over 40 million people, 30 percent of the workforce, as well as, 1.2 million people in New Jersey, about a quarter of the state’s workforce.
01.17.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – This week, Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced legislation to compel federal agencies to inform Members of Congress when a railroad or rail transit agency in their district is being investigated for safety violations. The bill, H.R. 543, requires the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to provide Congress with notice of when a comprehensive safety assessment is being conducted on an intercity or commuter rail transit agency that serves their district. This notice must come within 10 days of the FRA initiating a safety assessment and it must be sent to Members of Congress, Senators, and the relevant congressional committees. Once the safety assessment is completed, FRA has 90 days to inform those parties of the assessment’s findings, including specific defects and any recommendations to address them. An identical version of this bill was approved by the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and was passed by the House of Representatives without objection in the 115th Congress. “I am pleased to introduce this bill to ensure that our constituents know when the railroad services they rely on are under audit for safety reasons,” said Rep. Sires. “Members of Congress and Senators must know when and why these safety assessments are underway so that we may inform our constituents and work on ways to provide assistance.” In the wake of the fatal New Jersey Transit accident in Hoboken which killed a young mother and injured 110 passengers and crewmembers, it was made public that the FRA had been conducting a “deep audit” on NJ Transit prompted by an increase in safety violations. At the time, this safety review was not known to relevant Members of Congress or to the public who relied on NJ Transit to take them to work and bring them home safely every day. “My constituents and I never want to be caught off-guard by an unsafe rail transit agency – particularly when the federal government has been investigating it. This bill has previously been approved by the House and I look forward to making the case to my colleagues in the 116th Congress that we are all better served by a transparent and responsive rail safety oversight.”
01.16.2019	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement urging Senator McConnell to consider legislation in the Senate that could end the partial government shutdown: “Today is the 26th day of the partial government shutdown and it is long past time for the Senate to vote on reasonable legislation. Since the start of the 116th Congress, the House of Representatives has passed numerous bills that would end the government shutdown while the Senate has not voted on a single bill to reopen shuttered agencies. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell claims none of the House’s resolutions are workable, yet a set of these resolutions, reopening six of the nine impacted agencies, passed in the Senate last year by a vote of 92-6. Another resolution that the House voted on, funding the Department of Homeland Security through February 8, 2019, passed the Senate just days before the shutdown began. To date, the House of Representatives has sent six shutdown related bills to the Senate and none of them have been taken up. The House of Representatives is working every day to reopen the government because it is our duty to return stability to the 800,000 impacted federal employees, their children, their parents, their friends, and their communities. I remind Senate Majority Leader McConnell that Congress is a separate and co-equal branch of government and therefore our actions should be based on the will of the American people, not just the will of one man at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.”
01.14.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s efforts to withhold details from his meetings with Vladimir Putin: “Reports that President Trump went to great lengths to hide the contents of his conversations are deeply troubling. Unfortunately, this is just another example of the dangers the Trump Administration poses to our national security. Vladimir Putin is no friend of the United States and these reckless actions from the President do nothing but embolden him. The American people deserve to know if President Trump is negotiating away America’s security behind closed doors. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I pledge to work diligently with my colleagues to find out why the President insists on putting Russia’s interests above the American people’s.”
01.14.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro’s detention of National Assembly President Juan Guadió this past weekend: “Maduro’s actions this weekend are just another example of his outright authoritarianism. Detaining and threatening the leader of the democratically-elected National Assembly is unacceptable, but unfortunately is the kind of thuggery we have come to expect from the Maduro regime. I am grateful Juan Guadió is home safe and able to get back to the important work of fighting for democracy for the Venezuelan people. Sadly, we know peace will not come to Venezuela until democracy is restored and I continue to urge Maduro and his cronies to listen to the will of the people and step aside, so peace and security can be return to the region.”
01.10.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding Venezuelan dictator Nicolas Maduro’s illegitimate inauguration: “Maduro has driven Venezuela into the ground. His inauguration today is a farce. Nothing but a self-congratulatory show that proves to the world that he is just another feckless dictator. Inflation is at record levels, the economy has collapsed, people are going hungry, and millions have fled their home in search of basic freedoms. He tried to eliminate the democratically-elected National Assembly, violently oppressed the peaceful opposition, and made millions off the backs of the Venezuelan people. I applaud our friends and neighbors in the region that said they would not recognize his presidency and urge our allies around the globe do to the same. I will continue to fight for the Venezuelan people and work to hold Maduro and his cronies accountable for all the pain and suffering they have caused.”
01.09.2019	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding President Trump’s address to the American people: “Last night, President Trump lied to the American people from the Oval Office. He claimed migrants are driven here solely in the hope of economic gain when most are fleeing violence, drug cartels, and hunger. He claimed a wall would stop drug trafficking across the border when government statistics show that most drugs are smuggled through legal ports of entry. He claimed migrants are violent people when statistics show that undocumented immigrants commit less violent crimes than the general population. He claimed migrants are causing a humanitarian crisis at the border, but the true humanitarian crisis stems from President Trump’s complete repudiation of American values, history, and culture. As an immigrant and the Representative for the 8th District of New Jersey, I reject the President’s fear mongering and believe that America will always be great so long as we remember our creation as a country of immigrants.”
01.04.2019	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding his vote to end the partial government shutdown: “Last night, on the first day of the 116th Congress, the House of Representatives voted on a set of bills that would end the partial government shutdown that began 13 days ago. My colleagues and I passed a bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security through February 8, 2019, and another bill that would fund the remaining departments through the end of the fiscal year. These bills will help provide some stability to the hundreds of thousands of federal workers who are facing depleted savings and missed paychecks due to this shutdown. I call on my colleagues in the Senate to pass these bipartisan bills, which were unanimously agreed to in that chamber just two weeks ago. The American people deserve a government that works for them, not one that withholds their pay for leverage in negotiations.”
01.03.2019	(Washington, D.C.) – H.R. 1660, the Global Health Innovation Act of 2017 passed the Senate by unanimous consent on December 20, 2018. Previously, H.R. 1660 passed the House of Representatives on January 18, 2018 by a vote of 423-2 and now awaits signature by the President to be enacted into law. Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced this legislation at the start of the 115th Congress to provide a bipartisan, modern update to the groundbreaking research and development in health care technology carried out by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Rep. Sires stated: “As the 115th Congress comes to a close, I am proud that advancements towards an AIDS-free generation, an end to preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and the stop of lethal global epidemics are closer within our reach. Innovation in health care products by USAID increases the effectiveness of our foreign policy and progresses the health of millions around the world. Providing restructured oversight and transparency, the bipartisan legislation that I introduced with my friend Rep. Diaz-Balart now paves the way for American leadership at home and abroad.” Rep. Diaz-Balart stated: “The Global Health Innovation Act provides USAID with better tools and resources when it comes to health care research and development. Innovative technology and medical devices are vital to America's leadership in global health, as well as our national security. I commend Congressman Sires for his willingness to work across the aisle and ongoing commitment to this issue that is central to making the United States a stronger partner to our allies.”
12.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – The Department of Transportation (DOT) announced that New Jersey Transit has been awarded nearly $6,550,000 in Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvement (CRISI) grants for Positive Train Control (PTC) implementation. This grant money can be used by NJ Transit to finish its work of installing a critical safety technology helps that prevents train-to-train collisions and derailments like the 2016 accident that took one life and injured over one hundred people in Hoboken. Congressman Sires has worked throughout the 115th Congress to provide robust funding for railroad safety grant programs like CRISI, which amounts to a federal investment in rail safety. “Just this week, I joined Governor Murphy and other state officials to congratulate NJ Transit for its significant progress in installing PTC hardware on its locomotives and along its tracks,” said Congressman Sires. “Now NJ Transit can finish the job by installing all the equipment, ensuring that the hardware is running well, and training their employees to use it. This grant award will help NJ Transit get to the finish line.” “I commend DOT for awarding NJ Transit this grant to get PTC up-and-running throughout its system. This technology is tailored to prevent accidents that injure people and take lives,” stated Rep. Sires. “Commuters deserve a transit system that safely gets them where they need to be, and I look forward to continuing my support for federal safety grant programs in the 116th Congress.”
12.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the Administration’s surprise announcement to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria: “The President’s decision to go against the advice of the Pentagon and rapidly pull U.S. forces from Syria is impulsive, reckless, and dangerous. It undermines our allies and emboldens our foes. His actions strengthen the hand of Assad’s brutal forces and create a void that the Iranians and Russians are happy to fill. The Kurds, who are courageously fighting against ISIS and providing safe-haven for religious minorities are left out in the cold and vulnerable to attacks from both ISIS and Turkish forces. To make matters worse, we know Iran is committed to destabilizing the region through proxies in its continued offensive against Israel. Pulling Americans out of Syria leaves the door wide open for Iran to set up shop right at Israel’s border. I sincerely hope the President will take the advice of his experts and reconsider his rash decision. I know it’s the holiday season but there’s no reason to give gifts to the Iranian, Russian, and Syrian regimes while leaving our allies to fend for themselves.” Today, Pentagon officials announced that all U.S. forces will be withdrawn from Syria over the coming weeks, following the President’s claim to have defeated the Islamic State. The United States has been active in Syria since 2014 and maintains approximately 2,000 troops there to support anti-ISIS forces.
12.11.2018	(Washington, DC) – Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman Emeritus of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, was joined by Senators Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) as well as Representative Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in welcoming the final passage of H.R. 1918, the Nicaraguan Investment and Conditionality Act (NICA), which now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The NICA Act seeks to condition U.S. approval for loans to the Ortega regime from international financial institutions. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) introduced similar legislation, S. 2265, in the Senate. After its approval in the House on October 3, 2017, H.R. 1918 was amended in the Senate to include Senator Bob Menendez’s (D-NJ) S. 3233, the Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018, which seeks to impose additional sanctions on Nicaraguan regime officials, and which also included Senator Marco Rubio’s (R-FL) amendment targeting the regime’s enablers. The amended H.R. 1918 passed the House of Representatives on December 11, 2018 by unanimous consent. Statement by Sires: “I would like to thank my colleagues for passing this essential piece of legislation that holds the regime accountable for its misuse of international loans. This legislation directs the U.S. to curb Ortega’s access to international financing institutions until he undertakes serious efforts to combat corruption and hold free, fair and transparent elections. It has become clear that Ortega has no plans to work for the good of the Nicaraguan people, but only do what he can to fill his family’s coffers while he still can. The United States will not stand idly by as the regime continues to stifle democratic processes, consolidate power, and accumulate vast amounts of wealth while the Nicaraguans struggle daily to make ends meet. The Nicaraguan people have suffered at the hands of Ortega and his cronies for far too long, and I urge the President to promptly sign this bill into law. I would like to thank my good friend from Florida, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, and Senator Menendez for their leadership on this issue.” Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “I thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for passing the NICA Act that will help the Nicaraguan people break free of Ortega’s despotic rule. I am especially thankful to Bob, Ted, Marco, Patrick, Eliot, and Albio who joined me in this effort from the very beginning, as we witnessed years of Ortega’s increased corruption and repression. With the final passage of the amended NICA Act, Congress took a leap forward in creating further accountability against the heinous abuses committed by Ortega and his puppets. In a desperate effort to cling to power, Ortega and his thugs have continued to clamp down on free speech and peaceful demonstrations. The United States has answered the call of the Nicaraguan people and will continue to do so in support of much needed electoral and human rights reforms.” Statement by Menendez: “Today’s final passage of the NICA Act shows that the United States Congress will not stand idly by as the Ortega regime continues its dictatorial campaign of extrajudicial killings and repression against the people of Nicaragua,” said Senator Menendez, Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “This bipartisan legislation will hold Ortega, Murillo, and their accomplices accountable for their widespread human rights abuses and for plundering state coffers for their own profit. This bill also ensures that U.S. sanctions will target the Ortega regime without affecting the Nicaraguan people, and offers much-needed support for a negotiated solution to this crisis.” Statement by Cruz: “I have been proud to work alongside Rep. Ros-Lehtinen and our colleagues in the House and Senate to pursue meaningful democratic reform and combat human rights abuses in Nicaragua,” Senator Cruz said. “For years we fought hard for this meaningful legislation, and today’s vote in support sends a loud message to the Ortega regime that the United States will not allow regimes that commit such atrocities and undermine the rule of law to benefit from international financing.” Statement by Rubio: “In an important day for the Nicaraguan Community, Congress today overwhelmingly passed the NICA Act after many months of hard work behind the scenes,” Senator Rubio said. “We are one step closer to expanding sanctions and other pressures against the oppressive Ortega regime and sending a clear message that the United States will not tolerate the ongoing human rights violations. I thank Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, who spearheaded these efforts, for her tireless work in support of democracy in the Western Hemisphere.” Statement by Leahy: “The violence perpetrated by agents of the Ortega Government against Nicaraguan students and other protesters has shocked the hemisphere,” said Senator Patrick Leahy. “The purpose of this bill is to signal to the Nicaraguan people that we support their desire for a government that is not corrupt, does not act with impunity, and respects the civil and political rights of its citizens. The best way forward is a free and fair election, as soon as possible.” Statement by Engel: "It's long past time for Congress to hold Daniel Ortega and his cronies accountable for the egregious crimes that they continue to commit against the Nicaraguan people. Passage of the NICA Act sends a loud and clear message that the House of Representatives and Senate will continue our steadfast support for democracy and the rule of law in Nicaragua."
12.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, and Chairman Emeritus Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) made the following statement after introducing H.R. 7245, The Venezuela Humanitarian Relief, Reconstruction, and Rule of Law Act of 2018, legislation targeting the disintegration of democracy in Venezuela: “For far too long Maduro has incrementally dismantled Venezuela’s democracy while oppressing, disenfranchising, and denying the basic needs of his own citizenry. The humanitarian crisis grows more dire by the day, while Maduro and his cronies continue to fortify their illegitimate and despotic regime at the people’s expense. This legislation is a crucial step in demonstrating our commitment to standing shoulder to shoulder with the Venezuelan people by putting greater pressure on the regime to restore democracy to the Venezuelan people.” H.R. 7245 takes comprehensive approach by authorizing desperately needed humanitarian aid while increasing the costs of supporting the Maduro regime and holding these officials accountable. Specifically, this legislation authorizes humanitarian assistance for Venezuelans fleeing Maduro’s government and reaffirms U.S. support for the legitimately elected National Assembly. Furthermore, this bill will enhance pressure on individuals in the Venezuelan government, push for greater accountability for crimes against humanity, and work to return assets plundered by Maduro back to the Venezuelan people. Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL) and Rep. Norma Torres (CA) also joined as original cosponsors. Full text of the Venezuela Humanitarian Relief, Reconstruction, and Rule of Law Act of 2018 can be found here.
11.09.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement on the forced resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “I am alarmed that after forcing the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the President has appointed an individual who has clear bias against the Special Counsel’s investigation which he now oversees. Matthew Whitaker has explicitly spoken out in favor of defunding and limiting this investigation and must immediately recuse himself. The investigation must be allowed to continue unimpeded. Furthermore, the appointment of Whitaker as Acting Attorney General presents new legal challenges and potentially contradicts the Appointments Clause of the Constitution. Any individual in the position of Attorney General must be Senate confirmed.”
11.09.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the vote for Speaker of the House in the 116th Congress: "As the 115th Congress draws to a close, we must look forward to the issues that our party will focus on when we take the majority in the 116th Congress. Among the many important priorities for New Jerseyans and Americans, Congress must protect and improve access to healthcare, address the student debt crisis, and repair our crumbling infrastructure. Nancy Pelosi has championed these issues and has shown that she can help form a consensus around important pieces of legislation that improve lives in the 8th District and across the country. Therefore, when the vote for Speaker is held, I will be supporting her."
11.07.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the upcoming 116th Congress: “Congratulations to the newly elected women and men who will represent the American people in the 116th Congress. I look forward to working with each of you and collaborating on the solutions for the most pressing issues that our nation faces. We must come together to protect health care, reauthorize education funding, deliver national infrastructure worthy of the 21st century, and tackle employment and workplace obstacles that women face across the country. These are no small orders, but our constituents demand an active Congress to successfully legislate for our country’s future.”
10.26.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement thanking the FBI, Secret Service, ATF, U.S. Capitol Police, U.S. Postal Service, and more: “The explosive devices sent to political targets this week could have caused an historic disaster for our nation. Instead, we are safe because of the tireless work and sacrifice of our first responders and public servants. Thank you to following law enforcement agencies we are indebted to: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for using their expertise in forensics and security to dismantle these devices and work swiftly to identify their source. The U.S. Postal Service whose employees face these risks every day in their work and have always been on the front lines of numerous attacks through our federal postal system. The Secret Service for protecting many of the highest profile targets. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), for contributing their deep knowledge and experience to successful anti-terror operations. The U.S. Capitol Police Department and all local enforcement who stopped these instances and defend our communities each day. Thank you to all the organizations involved for their leadership and ability to work together in the name of protecting Americans. We are indebted to the patriotism and courage of these brave men and women.”
10.17.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-08), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere and Rep. Paul Cook (CA-08), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, issued the following statement on recent events involving political prisoners in Nicaragua and Venezuela: Ranking Member Sires and Chairman Cook: “We are deeply troubled by continued oppression by the Nicaraguan and Venezuelan regimes against peaceful demonstrators. Arbitrary detention, disappearances, and torture tactics routinely used by the Castro regime in Cuba are also happening at alarming rates in Nicaragua and Venezuela. This past weekend, Nicaraguan National Police beat and arrested at least 26 demonstrators who were peacefully calling for the Ortega-Murillo regime to step down. In Venezuela, the Maduro regime is holding at least 250 political prisoners, including opposition deputy Juan Requesens, and opposition activist Fernando Albán was murdered by Maduro’s henchmen in the SEBIN. We vehemently condemn these actions and call for Nicaraguan and Venezuelan regimes to cease all arbitrary arrests, acts of violence, and torture against dissenting voices, immediately release all political prisoners, and restore democracy through free and fair elections.”
10.07.2018	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires’ statement on the most recent appointment to the Supreme Court of the United States, following a 50-48 vote by the U.S. Senate to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh: “Today’s vote confirming Brett Kavanaugh as a Supreme Court Justice was frustrating and disappointing. The vote happened without a thorough FBI investigation into numerous accusations of sexual assault. Dr. Ford deserved to have her story heard without prejudice and even though the FBI did not speak to her during their investigation, I commend her for all she has done for survivors of sexual assault. Anyone nominated to the highest court in the land should be held to an equally high standard. Both before he was nominated and throughout the confirmation process, Brett Kavanaugh displayed blatant partisan behavior unbefitting of a Supreme Court Justice. I am extremely concerned that this confirmation will forever change the very nature of the Court. The Senate was entrusted with protecting the nonpartisan independence of the judiciary, but instead they rushed through the process to confirm a political actor. We must do better and work to ensure that our institutions protect the values that they were founded on.”
09.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere joined Subcommittee Chairman Paul Cook in hosting the President of the Republic of Chile, Sebastián Piñera. “I am pleased to have welcomed President Piñera to Congress today to discuss ways that we can continue to strengthen the U.S.-Chile relationship. Chile has been a consistent and reliable partner in the Western Hemisphere and works closely with the United States on several important issues, including security cooperation and human rights initiatives. Chile is a critical trade partner and a leader at the forefront of green energy technologies, as well as an advocate of environmental protection,” said Congressman Sires. “Furthermore, I want to commend President Piñera on his commitment to democratic principles and the people of Venezuela. The Venezuelan people continue to suffer under the corruption and oppression of an authoritarian despot who seeks only to line his pockets and bolster his illegitimate regime at the people’s expense. President Piñera has opened his country to Venezuelans fleeing their country and has been a leader in the region. He and his government are not afraid to stand up to Maduro’s bullying tactics and instead is focused on supporting the Venezuelan people as they grapple with a political and humanitarian crisis. “I am grateful for Chile’s persistent leadership in the Hemisphere and look forward to working closely with President Piñera in the future.”
09.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1093, a bill to improve rail oversight transparency, introduced by Congressman Sires (D-NJ). This bill requires the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), within 10 days of initiating a comprehensive safety assessment on a commuter or intercity passenger rail system, to notify congressional rail oversight committees and Members of Congress representing the state in which the assessment is conducted. “My bill brings transparency to the federal government’s role in keeping our nation’s railroad networks safe,” said Congressman Sires. “As a member of the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, I have a responsibility to ensure that Congress is living up to its role of preventing and mitigating rail accidents around the country.” In the wake of the tragic New Jersey Transit accident in Hoboken, New Jersey that left a young mother dead and injured 110 passengers and crewmembers, the FRA revealed that it had been conducting a comprehensive safety assessment on NJ Transit for months. As it turns out, NJ Transit had violated more safety regulations and paid more in fines for these violations than any other commuter railroad in the country over the previous five years. “It was bad enough that NJ Transit’s systems had gotten to this point. That the FRA had been undertaking a lengthy safety assessment on the system for months and had not informed my office was unconscionable. I should not have learned about this only after a fatal accident occurred,” stated Congressman Sires. “This legislation will help address this issue so Congress can step in if any other rail system falls short in its safety responsibilities. It is my hope that commuter and intercity passenger rail agencies, Members of Congress, and the FRA can work together to make these systems safer.”
09.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) announced that the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) has been awarded federal financial assistance through its 2018 State Damage Prevention grant and 2018 One-Call grant. “These grant awards, totaling over $100,000, will help BPU continue its important work of ensuring that pipeline maintenance rules are adhered to and any pipeline excavations are conducted safely,” said Congressman Sires. “State government is responsible for keeping our residents safe, and pipeline safety reviews are an important aspect of that effort. The people of New Jersey need to be confident that their government is committed to keeping everyone safe. I am glad that PHMSA has awarded our state with this important funding, and I look forward to seeing BPU make the best use of it.” PHMSA’s State Damage Prevention grants are used to improve states’ damage prevention programs, and its One-Call grants help states enforce pipeline damage prevention laws.
09.27.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, Congressman Sires voted in favor of legislation to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and its many programs for five years; and to pass the Disaster Recover Reform Act (DRRA), which reforms Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) programs to help communities prepare for, respond to, and recover from natural disasters. “This reauthorization package includes many important safety and passenger rights provisions that I am proud to support,” said Congressman Sires. “They include a provision to require the FAA to set minimum dimensions for passenger seats, including pitch and width; a provision taking care of our nation’s flight attendants by mandating that they receive at least 10 hours of rest between duty periods; and a provision prohibiting airlines from involuntarily bumping passengers who have already boarded.” The bill also includes $1.7 billion in relief funding to help communities affected by Hurricane Florence, which has so far taken 29 lives and caused $38 billion in property damage, begin the process of rebuilding their lives. “The government has a responsibility to help Americans recover from natural disasters, and I am glad that Congress has acted quickly to provide relief for those affected by Hurricane Florence.” This legislative package also includes DRRA, which reforms FEMA programs by ensuring that post-disaster assistance is used in pre-disaster mitigation projects. This bill was approved by the House of Representatives by a vote of 398 to 23.
09.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement marking one year since Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands: “On September 20, 2017, Hurricane Maria made landfall on American shores. The response by the federal government has been at best haphazard, and at worst cost lives. Five days after the storm, President Trump still had not lifted the Jones Act to ease shipments of aid to Puerto Rico. Ten days later, over 1.53 million still people lacked access to drinking water. Six months later, the federal government had only distributed 5.5% of the $23 billion pledged to the victims for nutritional assistance. Now, one year later, independent investigations have determined 2,975 Americans died in Puerto Rico alone as a result of Hurricane Maria and its aftermath. It is disturbing that members of the federal government, public servants dedicated to protecting the American people, continue to deny the horrific scope of this disaster. My colleagues and I have sent letters to the Administration asking for expanded, expedited Community Disaster Loans, and letters to Congressional leadership asking for increased disaster relief funding in Appropriations. We have held hearings, spoken on the floor of the House of Representatives, come together to support legislation like the COUNT Victims Act; a bill to ensure the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) always fulfills best practices in population counts after a disaster. Yet, more can still be done. I will continue to fight in Washington to protect the memory of the victims in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and help the survivors rebuild. We cannot erase the disgraceful response by the federal government. Instead, we must choose today to fulfill our duties, prevent a repeated occurrence, and aid our fellow Americans in their continuing time of need.”
09.07.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, and Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, issued the following statement on Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales’ recent announcement that he would not renew CICIG’s mandate, the abuse of U.S.-donated military grade vehicles, decision to prevent the return of the CICIG Commissioner to Guatemala, and deteriorating investment climate conditions. Ranking Member Sires and Chairman Cook: “We are deeply troubled by President Morales’ recent decisions. While we respect Guatemala’s sovereignty, the U.S. has, on a bipartisan basis since 2007, supported CICIG’s work to help the Public Ministry prosecute corruption cases and strengthen the rule of law. We continue to support bipartisan efforts on Capitol Hill and in the Administration to push for legitimate reforms that will improve CICIG’s effectiveness. CICIG should not remain in Guatemala indefinitely, but we believe CICIG’s work is critical during this time. We have also advocated for Guatemala to improve its investment climate, and recent decisions directly impede those efforts, threatening Guatemalan jobs, and increasing risks of more migration to the U.S.” “We urge President Morales to reconsider the renewal of CICIG’s mandate and allow the return of the CICIG Commissioner, as these actions threaten U.S. foreign assistance to Guatemala. Further, the unexplainable show of force outside CICIG’s offices and the U.S. embassy using U.S.-donated vehicles also puts future U.S. equipment donations to Guatemala at risk. We note Secretary Pompeo’s call yesterday with President Morales and urge the State Department to continue its longstanding, unequivocal support for CICIG’s anti-corruption work in Guatemala and important CICIG reform efforts.” *NOTE: On February 14, 2018, Chairman Cook and Ranking Member Sires sent a letter to President Morales urging an improved investment climate and affirming support for CICIG and the Attorney General.
09.06.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires recognized the Snyder Academy of Elizabethtown on their receipt of a grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS): “It is with great pleasure that I recognize the Snyder Academy of Elizabethtown, located in Elizabeth, NJ, on their receipt of a $25,000 grant from the Institute of Museum and Library Services. This funding will support their project, The 1968 Museum: Learn History, Save the Future, which will give visitors a rare insight into the protests, movements, leaders, and culture of 1968. I am also encouraged that this project will collaborate with Union County College to provide English as a Second Language (ESL) students with a unique opportunity to apply and enhance their English language skills. I commend the Snyder Academy of Elizabethtown on their service and commitment to the Elizabeth community and look forward to this project’s completion.”
09.04.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Representative Albio Sires, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, and Representative Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, made the following statement on the Guatemalan government’s decision to deny International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) Commissioner Ivan Velasquez re-entry into the country: “The Guatemalan government’s decision to declare CICIG Commissioner Ivan Velasquez a public security threat and deny him re-entry to Guatemala is another major blow in the country’s struggle against corruption and impunity. The real threat to security in the country is a Guatemalan government that refuses to respect the rule of law and protects the interests of the corrupt over those of the Guatemalan people. We urge President Morales to reverse his ill-advised decision. If he is unwilling to do so, Congress must do everything in our power to appropriately adjust U.S. assistance to the Guatemalan government.”
08.31.2018	Representative Albio Sires, Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, and Representative Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today made the following statement on Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales’s announcement that he will not renew the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) when it’s current mandate expires: ”We strongly condemn Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales’s decision to not renew the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala when its mandate expires next year. Today’s announcement is a major step backward for Guatemala in its fight against corruption and impunity. CICIG has been transformational in bringing justice to ordinary Guatemalans, and we urge President Morales to reconsider this ill-advised decision. We further note our grave concern with President Morales’s provocations of CICIG through an unneccessary military and police presence. “As Commissioner, Ivan Velazquez has partnered with Guatemalan Attorneys General past and present to root out corruption and save Guatemalan taxpayers millions of dollars. His continued leadership is essential, and we urge President Morales to do the right thing and renew his visa when it expires next month.”
08.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –U.S. Congressman Albio Sires, along with U.S. Senators Menendez and Booker, today announced that the New Jersey Family Planning League has been awarded $6,481,000 in federal funding from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support New Jersey’s Title X family planning programs and reproductive health services across the state. “In a political climate where women’s health care is increasingly under attack, I am encouraged that New Jersey will receive this critical funding to provide essential health care and family planning services for women and families throughout the state,” said Rep. Albio Sires. “Title X programming provides diverse health care services that many in underserved communities rely on as their primary source of care. We must continue to fight for federal funding of Title X programming and the indispensable services these centers provide.” “The Trump Administration’s proposal to undermine the Title X family planning program would reduce access to health care for millions of women across the country and is another example of their continuous efforts to interfere with women’s personal health care decisions,” said Sen. Menendez. “I fought hard to preserve the Title X program and I will continue to fight to make sure women living in low-income communities in New Jersey have access to the family planning and reproductive health services they deserve.” The New Jersey Family Planning League, located in Newark, will distribute the funding to various Planned Parenthood centers and Community Health Centers across the state. “By providing funding for reproductive and preventive health services, Title X programming continues to improve overall health outcomes for women and families across New Jersey who need it most,” said Sen. Booker. “Now more than ever, we must remain vigilant in our commitment to protecting comprehensive reproductive health care and family planning services for some of our most vulnerable New Jerseyans through federal funding like this.” In May, the Trump Administration announced plans to implement a domestic gag rule on Title X, the only federal grant program solely dedicated to family planning and related preventive services. For more than 40 years, the Title X program has successfully provided comprehensive family planning and health care services for millions of lower-income Americans. Each year, roughly four million people rely on Title X-funded health centers for basic preventive health care, including cancer screenings, birth control, sexually transmitted infection screenings, pregnancy testing, and well-woman exams. In keeping with longstanding legal, ethical and medical standards of health care, Title X providers can offer patients medically accurate counseling on and referrals for all pregnancy options-including parenting, adoption, and abortion. The moves by the Trump Administration to restrict grantees, limit the information providers are permitted to provide their patients, and attempts to undermine the program’s focus will disproportionately impact communities of color, the uninsured, and low-income individuals, and could reverse progress made in critical areas. Title X has helped women avoid 822,000 unintended pregnancies, which would have resulted in 387,000 unplanned births and 278,000 abortions. Title X also yields critical cost savings to the American healthcare system - every dollar invested in Title X saves more than seven dollars in Medicaid-related costs.
08.25.2018	(Washington D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement on the passing of U.S. Senator John McCain: “I am saddened to hear about the passing of U.S. Senator John McCain this evening. The residents of Arizona and the Nation have lost a great leader. My sympathies go out to his wife Cindy and their children during this difficult time. Senator McCain was a champion for human rights and believed that everyone should have the chance to realize their potential to the fullest,” said Congressman Sires. “The Senator served his country in the U.S. Navy with great distinction during the Vietnam War. John’s ability to work with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle is why his legacy will live on for many generations to come.”
08.22.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement after Paul Manafort was found guilty on eight charges and Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to multiple felony counts: "Yesterday’s guilty verdicts and plea deals are just the latest in a litany of developments that reveal the true nature of the Trump Administration. By surrounding himself with corrupt individuals the President has cast a shadow on the Executive Office that should trouble all Americans, regardless of party. In order for our democracy to function, it’s leaders must be held accountable which is why any investigations into wrong doing by members of the Trump Administration, including that of the Special Counsel, must continue unimpeded. During his campaign President Trump repeatedly promised to ‘drain the swamp’. If he had ever been serious about this pledge he would have taken a long, hard look at the people he has surrounded himself with. His continued defense of Paul Manafort and his lack of respect for the rule of law makes it clear to me yet again that President Trump never planned on getting rid of corruption.” Paul Manafort was found guilty on five charges of tax fraud, one of hiding foreign bank accounts, and two of bank fraud. Michael Cohen pleaded guilty to multiple counts of campaign finance violations, tax fraud, and bank fraud.
08.21.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires responded to El Salvador's decision to cut ties with Taiwan in favor of diplomatic ties with Beijing: "El Salvador's decision to cut ties with a democratic Taiwan in favor of China is part of an alarming trend throughout the Western Hemisphere as China uses its economic force to undermine Taiwan's diplomatic relations with the rest of the world. As a co-chair of the Taiwan Caucus, I am deeply concerned by growing Chinese influence in the region that has caused multiple countries to break with Taiwan in favor of Chinese investment that will leave those nations indebted to Beijing for decades to come. These 'investments' are little more than empty promises that do not create real jobs, only benefit Beijing in the long run, and do not provide any real assistance to the hardworking people they claim to benefit."
08.02.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, joined a bipartisan group of members of Congress in urging the Trump Administration to use its authority under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act to sanction six individuals from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico for their involvement in corruption and organized crime. Congressman Sires joined Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel (D-NY), Chair Emeritus of the Committee Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Republican Co-Chair of the Central America Caucus David Valadao (R-CA) and Democratic Co-Chair of the Central America Caucus Norma Torres (D-CA) in sending a letter to the Administration urging action. Specifically, the letter recommends that the Departments of State and Treasury determine whether the following six individuals meet the criteria to be held accountable under the Global Magnitsky Act: José Aquiles Enrique Rais López; José Luis Merino; Gustavo Adolfo Alejos Cambara; Luis Alberto Mendizábal Barrutia; Remigio Angel Gonzalez; and Oscar Ramón Nájera. P.L. 114-328, section 1263 (d) of the Global Magnitsky Act requires the submission of reports to Congress with relevant updates to the list of sanctioned individuals and entities, as well as responses to congressional requests for specific sanctions investigations pursuant to the law. In their letter, the members state, “As the United States continues to support efforts in the Northern Triangle region of Central America to fight corruption and organized crime, we ask you to determine whether the following individuals meet the criteria to be held accountable under the Act…We look forward to a continued dialogue with the Administration to support the robust implementation of the Global Magnitsky law and efforts by the United States to combat corruption and human rights abuses in the Northern Triangle region of Central America and around the globe.”
07.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Ranking Member Albio Sires (NJ-08) of the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Chairman Paul Cook (CA-08) of the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Chairman Emeritus Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Ranking Member Eliot Engel (NY-17) of the House Foreign Affairs Committee introduced H.Res.1006 to condemn the deteriorating situation in Venezuela and the regional humanitarian crisis it has caused, affirm support for the legitimate National Assembly and Supreme Court, and urge further action in support of democracy in Venezuela. Ranking Member Sires: “Maduro is an authoritarian despot who continues to oppress, and disenfranchise the Venezuelan people in an attempt to consolidate and bolster his illegitimate regime. The Venezuelan people, who seek only to exert their democratic rights, suffer from a growing humanitarian crisis which is exacerbated by corruption, economic collapse, and a complete degradation of democracy. The United States must stand shoulder to shoulder with the Venezuelan people, who have fought long and hard to bring democratic principles and stability to Venezuela. This resolution condemns the languishing situation in Venezuela and reaffirms support for Venezuela’s legitimate National Assembly and Supreme Court. The United States must not turn its back on the plight of the Venezuelan people and hold Maduro accountable for his atrocities.” Chairman Cook: “Nicolas Maduro and the PSUV continue their illegitimate reign over Venezuela to the detriment of the country, its people, and neighbors in the region. The humanitarian crisis is horrific, and the continued repression reprehensible. Many countries around the world have joined with the United States to support the Venezuelan people, and this resolution acknowledges those good efforts and urges countries that have so far failed to support democracy in Venezuela to join the international consensus in future action. It is critical that we stand united and unwavering in our support for the legitimate National Assembly and Supreme Court, jointly impose sanctions and visa bans for Maduro officials responsible for this crisis, and coordinate an effective humanitarian response. I also urge President Trump to increase U.S. humanitarian aid, sanctions and public diplomacy efforts to expose the Maduro regime’s corruption, and support for democratic actors in Venezuela.” Chairman Emeritus Ros-Lehtinen: "Every day, the situation in Venezuela continues to deteriorate. Repression runs rampant, economic privation is the new normal, and the Maduro regime continues to flaunt the rule of law and instead serve only itself and its enablers. I'm proud to join this resolution alongside my colleagues, Paul, Albio, and Eliot, condemning the oppression of the Venezuelan people and calling on the administration to take more action against those who must live under the yoke of Maduro's tyrannical rule." Ranking Member Engel: “Venezuela should be the wealthiest country in South America. Instead, its people suffer from massive food and medical shortages, the return of measles and skyrocketing violence – all the result of incredibly flawed government policies. President Maduro has turned Venezuela into a full-fledged dictatorship and rejected humanitarian aid. This resolution makes it clear that Congress continues to stand with the Venezuelan people in their enduring struggle for democracy and an economy that benefits all citizens.”
07.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement condemning President Trump’s closed-door meeting and press conference with Vladimir Putin that took place in Finland this morning: “Just 3 days after 12 Russian agents were indicted for sustained efforts to influence the 2016 presidential elections, President Trump stood silently on stage as Vladimir Putin lied about the interference. To make matters worse, President Trump then had the audacity to blame America for not being friendly enough towards Putin. It is completely unacceptable that Trump shows no interest in holding Putin accountable for the blatant and extensive Russian efforts to tamper with our democracy. I am outraged that President Trump ignored his own intelligence agencies, legitimized Putin’s denial of involvement, and refused to name Putin as the dangerous adversary that he is. President Trump is doing a disservice to Americans by not standing up for the country he is supposed to be leading. Protecting the integrity of our electoral system must be a national priority for all those who value a representative democracy and President Trump should support a complete investigation into Russia’s role in interfering with the 2016 election.”
07.13.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding Justice Department’s indictment of 12 Russian intelligence agents as part of the ongoing investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 Presidential election: “This new indictment of Russian agents for their attempts to undermine American democracy further reinforces why President Trump should not meet with Putin next week. It has been concluded beyond a reasonable doubt by our intelligence community that Russia interfered in the 2016 Presidential election, and for the President to sit down with the man responsible for these attacks on our democracy is irresponsible and foolish. This blatant attempt at undermining our elections calls for a unified, bipartisan response to protect our country from those who seek to hurt us.”
07.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Sires released the following statement supporting the NATO alliance: “Our allies in NATO deserve not only our support but our respect. The alliance benefits the United States just as it does the other member nations and is a key tool to ensure collective defense. President Trump might think that the NATO alliance needs reworking but that is no excuse for the way he has treated the allies who came to America’s aid in the dark days following 9/11 and countless other times. I am extremely disappointed that President Trump has once again sought to divide us from our allies, weaken the transatlantic alliances, and embolden Putin who is no friend of the United States.”
07.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: “During his tenure on the Supreme Court, Justice Kennedy did not vote on a partisan line and his swing vote furthered the ongoing battle for equal rights in many key cases. He helped protect a woman’s right to choose and ensure marriage equality for couples across the country. Unfortunately, President Trump has turned his back on Justice Kennedy’s legacy and role on the Court with his nomination of Judge Kavanaugh. If Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed, numerous protections that millions of people rely on everyday will be at risk. There is little doubt that President Trump wants to overturn Roe v. Wade, roll back the Affordable Care Act, and strip consumer protections. This nomination shows that he intends to accomplish all of these things through the Supreme Court. The Senate should listen to the American people and uphold the nonpartisan nature of the Supreme Court.”
06.27.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, Congressman Sires joined 300 of his Democratic and Republican colleagues in rejecting H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, a supposed compromise bill drafted by Speaker Paul Ryan and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). “I’m relieved that my colleagues and I successfully and resoundingly opposed H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act.” stated Rep. Sires. “Rather than addressing important, bipartisan issues in immigration such as the family separation crisis and the future of DREAMers across the country, Speaker Ryan chose to schedule a vote on yet another hardline, anti-immigrant bill that failed to adequately resolve either of these issues.” Specifically, H.R. 6136 did not provide a permanent path to citizenship for DREAMers but instead tied the continuation of their protected status to sustained border funding – holding their futures hostage to ensure $25 billion in funding for an unnecessary border wall. It also failed to address the root cause of the family separation crisis at the border and would continue the policy of jailing entire families who are coming to the United States in the hopes of finding safety and building a better life. In addition, it would make family reunification extremely difficult by eliminating broad visa categories and revoking millions of previously approved citizenship petitions. It would also have made it much harder for those seeking asylum to argue their case and removed protections for unaccompanied children. H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act failed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 121-301.
06.27.2018	(Washington, D.C.)– Today, Congressman Sires released a statement on the United States Supreme Court’s 5 to 4 decision on Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31. This decision ruled that government employees represented by, but not belonging to, a union do not have to contribute to that union’s costs to negotiate on their behalf. “A union’s whole purpose is to ensure that working Americans have a measure of input over the decision-making process that determines their salaries, their working hours, and what their employers can and cannot demand from them. Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court on Janus v. AFSCME overturns over 40 years of judicial precedent and has endangered future workers’ ability to advocate for themselves. Collective bargaining is the foundation of workers’ empowerment, which is why it should be funded by everyone who benefits from it. The Court’s decision today sets back workers’ rights by decades and makes it considerably more difficult for unions to keep advocating for fair pay and fair workplaces.”
06.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, Congressman Sires joined more than 190 of his fellow House Democrats as an original cosponsor on H.R. 6135, the Keep Families Together Act, introduced by Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY). This bill would prohibit the mass family separation that is a direct result of the Trump Administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. The introduction of H.R. 6135 follows a visit by Rep. Sires, Rep. Nadler, and five of their colleagues to the ICE detention facility in Elizabeth, NJ to speak with fathers who had been separated from their children. ICE officials denied the Representatives access for hours before finally relenting and allowing them to meet with the fathers. “This bill must be passed immediately to end the horrible policy of separating families at the border and ensure that they are reunited without delay.” stated Rep. Sires. “These men fled their home countries with their families in the face of violence to seek asylum in the United States because they feared for their lives and their children’s lives. Now, they do not even know where their children are or when they will see them again. I am heartbroken and outraged that the country that welcomed my family when we were fleeing the Castro regime has become a place of such cruelty to those seeking safety.” The Keep Families Together Act is a companion bill to legislation introduced in the Senate by Sen. Diane Feinstein earlier this month and would prohibit Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating families in all but the most extraordinary situations. It would also require DHS to create policies and procedures to help parents and children locate each other and reunite. In addition, it limits the criminal prosecution of asylum seekers which would prevent families seeking asylum from being prosecuted under the “zero tolerance” policy. “The Trump Administration has decided that separating thousands of terrified children from their parents and keeping them in detention facilities is an acceptable course of action. This policy is inhumane, unnecessary, and un-American. I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support the Keep Families Together Act and bring an end to this cruel policy of separating families at the border" expressed Rep. Sires.
06.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released a statement on Republicans on the House of Representatives’ Committee on Natural Resources holding a hearing on a draft of the so-called Enhancing State Management of Federal Lands and Waters Act. The bill would impose a fee on New Jersey and any other State that prevents offshore drilling on 50 percent or more of a proposed lease sale. “This bill is a naked attempt to punish States like New Jersey, which have chosen to prioritize the well-being of their waters and their shoreline communities over the interests of oil businesses. New Jerseyans heard about the Trump Administration’s proposal to open the Atlantic shores to offshore drilling and swiftly moved legislation to block drilling off their shores – legislation which was signed into law by Governor Murphy in April. This attack on New Jersey’s right to protect its own is a giveaway to oil businesses who have realized that States on the East Coast do not want to endanger their waters for the sake of profit. Republicans are all about Federalism and States’ rights, right up until those rights bump up against corporations’ ability to make money. I have previously joined my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in opposing this poorly though-out plan, and I will continue opposing it until the Administration gives up its attacks.” In January, the Trump Administration called for opening nearly all American waters for oil exploration. In response to this, the New Jersey Legislature quickly passed a bill to prohibit oil exploration in State waters, which was signed into law by Governor Phil Murphy.
05.18.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the passage of the 2018 Farm Bill (H.R. 2): “Rather than working cooperatively to pass a farm bill that addresses the needs of our urban and rural communities, the 2018 Farm Bill is a partisan vehicle attempting a last-ditch effort at weakening nutrition assistance programs. This disastrous bill unfairly targets veterans, seniors, children and other families by cutting $23.3 billion in nutritional benefits which would impact nearly 1 million households. Additionally, severely disabled veterans would face extra barriers to assistance and 265,000 children would lose access to free school meals because of the bill’s burdensome administrative requirements. Specifically, it would eliminate Broad Based Categorical Eligibility, establish new paperwork requirements, and mandate an untested workforce bureaucracy. Every five years, the farm bill represents an opportunity for bipartisan cooperation to ensuring the security and prosperity of farmers and consumers, but the GOP insistence on crippling vital assistance that many individuals and families rely on is a non-starter, which is why I voted against this terrible bill.” H.R. 2 the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 failed the House of Representatives by a vote of 198 to 213.
05.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced H.Res. 893 to recognize the memorials and monuments to the Katyn Massacre as important historical reminders of the heinous acts that took the lives of approximately 22,000 innocent Polish prisoners of war at the order of Joseph Stalin. “Memorials have been erected around the country, including in Jersey City, New Jersey, to honor the tens of thousands of victims of the Katyn Massacre that occurred in 1940. They stand as not only a remembrance to the victims, but as an irreplaceable reminder for all Americans of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes,” expressed Congressman Sires. “I am pleased to join Congressman Sires in introducing this Resolution to honor the close to 22,000 victims of the Katyn Massacre in 1940. By pursuing historical truth, we are demonstrating that these lives were not lost in vain,” said Congresswoman Kaptur, Co-Chair of the Polish Caucus. “On this 78th anniversary, it is my hope that communities of all heritage come together in dialogue so that the wounds may continue to heal.” The Katyn Massacre occurred during World War II in the Katyn Forest and in nearby Smolensk, Russia where an estimated 22,000 Polish prisoners of war were murdered on the orders of Joseph Stalin. Victims included Chief Rabbi of the Polish Army Baruch Steinberg and over 400 other Jewish servicemen of the Polish armed forces. Until the 1990s, the Soviet Union denied its implication in the crime and worked to cover up the atrocities committed during the Katyn Massacre. “Poland is a valued ally and with nearly 10 million Americans today claiming Polish ancestry it’s vital that we contribute to the memory of such a historically significant event for not only Polish Americans, but many World War II veterans as well. It is my hope that these memorials and monuments dedicated to this atrocity continue to stand for generations to come in New Jersey and across the globe,” stated Congressman Sires. Full text of the resolution can be found here.
05.11.2018	(Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly’s comments on immigrants: “John Kelly’s prejudiced views on certain groups of immigrants is yet another reminder of the Administration’s disdain for people who come from different backgrounds. The idea that someone who wasn’t presented with the opportunity to go to school or learn English can’t contribute to our society is false. Immigrants have been giving back to our country since before the Declaration of Independence was signed. They serve in Congress, teach our children, save our lives, and give their own for the country they call home. When my family fled the Castro regime in Cuba, we came to America because of the freedom and hope it represented. My mother and father came with nothing but the clothes on their backs and their 4th and 5th grade educations. They worked hard, bought a home, raised three children, and gave me the chance at a better life. It is their sacrifice and hard work that allowed me to become the Congressional representative for the 8th District of New Jersey. Just because we spoke Spanish and came from a place of oppression doesn’t make us any less worthy of the American Dream. America was built by people’s hard work and perseverance, not their resumes.”
05.10.2018	(Washington D.C.) – Today the House passed H. Res. 835, a resolution introduced by Reps. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Nita Lowey (D-NY). The resolution calls for all nations to enter into robust diplomatic relations with Israel upon its 70th year of statehood. It also highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy and affirms the importance of diplomatic recognition of the nation in multilateral fora globally. Statement by Representative Sires: “I would like to thank my colleagues Rep. Foxx, Rep. McCaul, and Rep. Lowey for their work and commitment to getting this important and timely House resolution passed. Israel is a key strategic ally to the United States and continues to play an important and stabilizing role in the region and abroad. This bipartisan resolution marks an incredible milestone for the state of Israel, and I hope that our two countries can continue to work together for generations to come. I applaud my colleagues in the House for unanimously passing this resolution and look forward to continued prosperity and security for the state of Israel.” Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I’m pleased to support the passage of H. Res. 835 today, which sends a united message from the House of Representatives to the UN and the world that respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is a priority for U.S. national security and achieving peace in the Middle East. As Israel furthers its diplomatic reach, the U.S. will continue to support its trade partner, fellow member state in international organizations, ally and friend.” Statement by Representative McCaul: Yesterday’s egregious attacks against Israel by Iran exemplifies why we must remain steadfast in our support for our Israeli partners. Since its independence in 1948, Israel has thrived in a turbulent region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. With the passage of this resolution in the House, there should be no confusion amongst the international community as to where our relationship stands now and where it will be in the future. As we approach the 70th anniversary of Israel as a state, we must reflect on our strong bilateral relationship, and continue working together to advance our common interests internationally. Statement by Representative Lowey: “In just 70 years, Israel has overcome seemingly impossible odds to become a light unto the nations. Despite these achievements, Israel is continually treated unfairly at the United Nations and other international fora. With the passage of H.Res. 835, the House of Representatives is sending a strong message of support for the ironclad U.S.-Israel relationship, the expansion of Israel’s diplomatic relations, and a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.”
05.09.2018	(Washington D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires participated in a House Foreign Affairs Committee markup of several bills relating to global development, international security assistance, countering foreign propaganda, and continued support to Israel. One of the bills considered was H.R. 5141, the United States-Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2018. This legislation would authorize U.S. security assistance to Israel as outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding through fiscal year (FY) 2023. Additionally, this bill would further enhance U.S.-Israel cooperation by advancing greater bilateral coordination on issues such as cybersecurity and space exploration. “Israel has been a great ally to the United States and assistance to Israel is a continued investment in stability abroad, as well as our national security here at home. I am a cosponsor of H.R. 5141, which will reaffirm our partnership with Israel and provide greater resources for Israel’s enhanced security,” stated Congressman Sires. The Committee also considered H.R. 5681, the Global Engagement Center Authorities Act, which would enhance the mission of the Global Engagement Center (GEC) to counter terrorist and foreign state propaganda. Specifically, this bill would authorize the GEC to direct, lead, and coordinate federal efforts to recognize, understand, expose, and counter foreign state and non-state disinformation efforts, such as the ones used by the Russians during the 2016 Presidential elections. “I believe H.R. 5681 is a necessary step to address the disinformation campaign undertaken by Russia during the 2016 Presidential election season and future efforts. Disinformation attacks pose a unique threat because they can be harder to immediately identify, but potentially have lasting influence and consequences for our society. It is long past time for the Administration to work with the GEC to fulfill its mandate,” said Congressman Sires. All the bills marked up today, including H.R. 5141 and H.R. 5681, have passed out of Committee and await further action on the House Floor.
05.08.2018	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires made the following statement regarding the planned removal of the Katyn Memorial at Exchange Place in Jersey City: “The Katyn Memorial has stood for decades in Jersey City to commemorate the massacre of more than 20,000 Polish soldiers and leaders by the Soviet Union in 1940. The Polish American community has a long and vibrant history in Jersey City and they deserve to have a voice in the future of the monument. The memorial is significant to not only the Polish American community, but to many veterans of World War II as well. The Polish American residents of Jersey City diligently worked with the city to dedicate the statue to honor the victims and to stand as a reminder of the horrific atrocity. I spoke with Ambassador Piotr Wilczek of Poland about the Polish American community’s concerns with the removal of the statue and offered my understanding of the historical significance of the statue to the community. It is my hope that moving forward a productive dialogue can be had with the Polish American community in Jersey City to ensure that the statue stands for future generations to learn about and remember the history of the greatest generation.”
05.08.2018	(Washington, DC) – Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement in response to the announcement that President Trump is unilaterally withdrawing from the Iran Nuclear Agreement, also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “President Trump’s announcement to withdraw from the agreement and reimpose sanctions without a comprehensive strategy to counter Iran from becoming a nuclear power is a mistake. His announcement is short-sighted and gives no indication on how to counter Iran’s malign activities around the world. President Trump’s refusal to consult with Congress or coordinate with our allies makes it easier for the Iranian regime and its proxies to double down on their nefarious agenda. Rogue regimes like Iran, North Korea, and Russia will be able to strengthen economic and military ties which poses a greater threat to our allies, especially Israel. Throughout my time in Congress I have been a strong proponent for finding a peaceful path to curb Iran’s nuclear program. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I listened to experts and studied this JCPOA in great detail. As a result, I voiced my deep skepticism that the nuclear agreement was insufficient in halting Iran’s nuclear program and preventing them from obtaining a nuclear weapon. However, since it went into effect I believe the U.S. and other parties to the agreement need to keep our word and do everything possible to strictly enforce the agreement. This includes conducting the most thorough and comprehensive inspections to verify that Iran is in compliance with the agreement and unable to deceive the international community and violate the agreement undetected. Any effort to change the deal has to be comprehensive and thoughtful. The President should listen to his military experts and advisors when they say that enforcing this deal is in the national security interest of the United States.”
05.03.2018	(Washington, D.C). – Today, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) announced that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has been awarded Federal financial assistance through its Passenger Ferry Grant program. This grant award, totaling $2,480,000, will go towards modernizing the power and propulsion engine systems on four if its commuter ferry vessels. “The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is a critical player for our regional economy,” said Congressman Sires. “Keeping its vessels well-maintained and in operation is important to the thousands of daily commuters who rely on a safe and timely commute.” The FTA’s Passenger and Ferry Grant program provides funding for projects around the country that focus on port and ferry maintenance, and expansion. This Federal investment is critical for States, cities, and industries that rely heavily on the maritime transportation. “The Port Authority is responsible for hundreds of daily commuter ferry trips, and it is important to ensure that their vessels are running safely, cleanly, and optimally,” stated Congressman Sires.
05.03.2018	(Washington, D.C.) - Last week, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) joined co-sponsors Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Congressman Frank Pallone (D-NJ), and Congressman Adriano Espaillat (D-NY) to announce the Handgun Licensing and Registration Act of 2018. This legislation would overturn an outdated 1986 law to build a framework of commonsense standards for handgun gun ownership in the United States by creating a federal licensing and registration process for gun ownership with minimum requirements that: The person seeking gun ownership is at least 21 years old; The person undergoes firearm training; The handgun owner has undergone a criminal history and background check (including submitting fingerprints and photographs) and; A license renewal process after five years of issuance. The bill would allow states to the opportunity to opt out of the federal system on the condition that they implement a state registration system that meets the same requirements. “For far too long, Congress has failed to enact commonsense measures in response to the gun violence epidemic plaguing our nation” said Sires. “In 2016 alone, 7,105 people lost their lives to handguns and this piece of legislation is an important step to ending this violence by creating a standard of responsible gun ownership. I am proud to cosponsor this update to our laws to ensure that law-abiding individuals who want to own handguns have passed a background check and know how to handle these dangerous weapons safely and responsibly.” “The National Rifle Association has threatened, fundraised and strong-armed the debate around the second amendment for so long that commonsense measures — measures that would bring down rates of gun violence and even receive the support of law enforcement — have been deemed taboo. To that I say no more,” said Watson Coleman. “Our government requires registration and basic standards for voting, operating a vehicle, even opening a business. Yet, for weapons created with the single intent to take a life, we have developed a dangerous aversion to any mechanism to understand where and with whom these weapons reside. 96 Americans are killed every day by a gun. It’s time to give law enforcement the tools to prevent this violence and provide a record of accountability for those who seek to do others harm.” “The plague of gun violence in our communities is completely unacceptable,” said Pallone. “As Members of Congress, it is not enough to ask for a moment of silence. It is not enough to express our thoughts and prayers. We must now follow the lead of the thousands of young people who came out to demand change last week and enact common sense solutions to reduce gun violence. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act provides real solutions that will not only help prevent mass shootings like we saw in Parkland, but also curb the gun violence we see in our communities every day.” “America has a gun problem and we cannot wait for the next tragedy strike before we work together to bring about common sense solutions and real reform,” said Espaillat. “According to Gifford’s Law Center, Americans own an estimated 270 million firearms, which accounts for nearly 90 guns per every 100 people. Yet, it is shocking to know that our country does not have a system in place to easily track and identify gun owners. There are a number of loopholes in our nation's broken gun system that allow troubled individuals to easily access guns and other firearms with minimal oversight. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act would address this problem and help us navigate the licensing and registration process in an effort to keep our communities safe and keep guns out of the wrong hands.” According to Gifford’s Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, Americans own an estimated 270 million firearms, which is approximately 90 guns for every 100 people, yet most states lack a system to easily identify a gun owner and many require little or no firearm safety training. The Handgun Licensing and Registration Act of 2018 would set nationwide standards for gun ownership while finally providing a functional tool to prevent gun violence in all its forms.
05.03.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) announced that the City of Bayonne, New Jersey, has been awarded Federal financial assistance through its Passenger Ferry Grant program. This grant award, totaling nearly $650,000, will go towards the construction of the proposed Commuter Ferry Terminal at the former Military Ocean Training Terminal site. “In awarding this grant to Bayonne, the FTA has done its residents a great service,” said Congressman Sires. “Bayonne is experiencing an economic renaissance that its residents have long waited for. This money, and the Commuter Ferry Terminal it will help build, will assist in continuing its economic growth.” The FTA’s Passenger and Ferry Grant program provides funding for projects around the country that focus on port maintenance and expansion. This Federal investment is critical for States and cities whose residents rely heavily on the maritime industry. “The proposed Commuter Ferry Terminal is an important project for Bayonne and for New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District. Bayonne is an obvious and important choice for Federal Passenger Ferry Grants, and I am proud to have assisted secure this grant to bring commuter ferry service to the City,” stated Congressman Sires.
05.01.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the ongoing protests in Nicaragua: “The violent crackdown of peaceful protestors and censorship of the media by the government should not surprise anyone who has been following the Ortega family’s constant efforts to consolidate power over the last several years. Rather than guarantee the protections of the Nicaraguan people, Ortega’s security forces have launched a brutal campaign of attacks against their own citizens and members of the press; merely for exercising their democratic rights. Free and fair elections are a cornerstone of democratic society and allow for people’s voices to be heard. It is in their absence that the Nicaraguan people have banded together to demand more from the Ortega regime. Daniel Ortega must stop clamping down on democratic spaces and allow for a true political process to take place. I condemn these attacks and stand with the Nicaraguan people and journalists fighting to break free from the authoritarian grip of Ortega and his cronies.
04.30.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Railroad safety is one of the most important issues facing New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District. As one of the nation’s most active transportation hubs, its residents rely on an efficient rail network that connects New Jersey to New York and keeps its thousands of daily passengers safe during their trips. Positive Train Control (PTC), which is an automatic speed control system, must be a crucial part of that safety structure. “New Jersey Transit is one of the country’s most productive commuter rail systems and we have a responsibility to keep it running safely and efficiently,” said Congressman Sires. “That is why it is so important that the Federal mandate to install PTC on major railroads be met as quickly as possible. I am disappointed by recent reports indicating that NJ Transit will be needing yet another extension on the deadline to install PTC. Meeting these common-sense rail safety standards, which were first imposed a decade ago, should have been NJ Transit’s number one priority.” Successfully installing PTC on New Jersey Transit’s systems includes hardware and software installation on their rail cars and computer systems operations, as well as training employees to manage it. This technology, which has been around for decades, is instrumental in preventing tragedies like the fatal 2016 train crash at Hoboken Terminal. “I am committed to ensuring that Washington provides New Jersey with the resources it needs to finish installing this critical technology,” stated Congressman Sires. “The Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus bill includes major funding increases for rail safety and infrastructure projects grants which NJ Transit can use to continue installing PTC. It is now up to NJ Transit to make the most of these funding opportunities by expeditiously applying for and securing these grants, and finally meeting the Federal safety benchmarks that were first set 10 years ago.”
04.27.2018	(Washington D.C.) – Two teams of undergraduate students from Stevens Institute of Technology, under the direction of Dr. Eric Williams, will advance to the final stage of the 2018 Revolutionary Aerospace Systems Concepts – Academic Linkage (RASC-AL) competition to be held this June in Cocoa Beach, Florida. “I am proud and impressed that Stevens will have not one, but two teams representing New Jersey this year among some of the best minds in the country. Their selection is a testament to their ingenuity, dedication, and passion for STEM, which will lead our country into the next generation of space exploration,” stated Congressman Sires. The RASC-AL Competition, managed by the National Institute of Aerospace on behalf of NASA, seeks to encourage university students at the graduate and undergraduate level to develop and design innovative solutions in deep space exploration through original engineering and analysis. The teams develop unique projects in response to one of four themes related to challenges of human spaceflight. This year, eleven students from Stevens comprising two teams, have been selected to represent New Jersey among fourteen finalists in the competition. The teams will present their projects, the S.A.B.R.E. Stage (Stevens Autonomous Block-2B Reusable Exploration Stage) and Project S.P.A.C.E. (Solar Powered Artificial Gravity Crewed Expedition), at the 2018 RASC-AL Forum on June 18-21. “I am encouraged by the continued advances in science and technology developed by our nation’s students and wish the best of luck to these teams as they present their designs in the final stage of this competition. I have no doubts that these students will find success at whatever they choose to do in their future endeavors and am proud of their accomplishments.”
04.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced the City of Newark, New Jersey, as a recipient of the Brownfields Environmental Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund, and Cleanup grants. These grants, totaling $400,000, will go towards assessing, cleaning up, and redeveloping contaminated and underutilized properties in Newark. “The EPA has recognized how important clean and healthy communities are by awarding Newark with invaluable financial assistance to clean up brownfield sites,” stated Congressman Sires. “Newark residents deserve to live free from worry that plots of land in their community are contaminated and hazardous, and this grant money will help address this.” A “brownfield” is the name given to a plot of land or property which cannot be safely redeveloped due to the presence of hazardous substances or pollutants. These new brownfields grants will go towards cleaning up the old Berkowitz Fat Company site, which was once used as a meat rendering plant and still hosts improperly-managed petroleum and chemical underground storage; and to the former Allen’s Amoco site, which was home to a gas station from 1937 to 1991 and still hosts several underground storage tanks and petroleum-contained soil and groundwater. “I am confident that this grant money will go a long way towards helping our communities assess the environmental damage caused by years of mismanagement,” Congressman Sires said. “This is an example of government living up to its role, which is to use its considerable resources to help communities address their most pressing problems. I look forward to seeing Newark make good use of this wonderful opportunity.”
04.20.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Reps. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Nita Lowey (D-NY) introduced H. Res. 835 yesterday, a resolution supporting robust bilateral relations with the State of Israel globally and fairness in its treatment in multilateral fora upon seventy years of statehood. The resolution highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy, urges support for its bid for the United Nations Security Council and affirms the diplomatic recognition that America’s strategic ally deserves. Statement by Representative Sires: “I am pleased to introduce this timely House resolution with my colleagues to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel, which has been a continued friend and ally to the United States. Israel has remained a stalwart of democracy and a beacon of hope for Jewish immigrants all over the world, and embraces the values, and freedoms that are the cornerstone of a vibrant democratic society. As the Middle East struggles with protracted conflicts and growing challenges, Israel continues to be an essential international partner and plays a critical role in promoting stability in the region and abroad. This resolution will reaffirm Congress’ steadfast commitment to Israel and our continued support for our ally, friend, and partner on the international stage.” Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of Israel’s independence and birth of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I am proud to introduce this House resolution with my colleagues to honor this occasion and express Congress’ support for Israel’s bilateral relations and equitable treatment in international organizations. Respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is crucial for advancing peace in the Middle East and is vital to U.S. national security. This resolution sends a clear message to the UN and the world that the U.S. will continue to stand by Israel as a trade partner, equal member state in all multilateral fora, ally and friend.” Statement by Representative McCaul: “Since its creation in 1948, Israel has thrived in a region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. The United States, through decades-long aid and assistance, has been instrumental in Israel’s success. I am proud to introduce this resolution with my colleagues in support of a continued robust bilateral relationship that sends a clear message to the world that the United States stands in lockstep with our strongest ally in a turbulent region.” Statement by Representative Lowey: “As Israel celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding, this resolution will act as a powerful reminder that the unbreakable U.S.-Israel relationship must be fundamentally grounded in bipartisanship and support for a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.”
04.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the sham transition of power in Cuba from Raul Castro to Miguel Diaz-Canel: “The transfer of power from Raul Castro to Miguel Diaz-Canel is merely a façade that will leave no room for meaningful changes for the Cuban people. Miguel Diaz-Canel was hand-picked to succeed Castro, who will retain real power as head of the Communist Party and the military. While Diaz-Canel acts as the puppet leader of Cuba, Castro will continue to call all the shots, and the United States should not believe this superficial power transition will mean any real reform. Miguel Diaz-Canel is merely a figurehead meant to parody leadership as Castro continues to lead from the shadows. I will continue to fight for the rights of the Cuban people and urge the United States to hold Cuba accountable for its sordid history of human rights abuses, oppression, and ongoing relations with questionable state actors.”
03.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the FAA’s decision to put a stop to “doors-off” helicopter flights: “I am saddened by the tragic loss of life that occurred when a tour helicopter crashed into the East River on March 11. These accidents happen far too often, which is why, this morning, I was joined by Congressman Don Payne, Jr. in sending a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) Acting-Administrator Elwell regarding this incident. In the letter, I asked the Administrator to follow the FAA’s mandate to keep our skies safe by banning these dangerous flights over our region. Now it seems that the FAA has finally come around to acknowledging the public-safety hazards posed by these flights and is ordering an immediate stop to all “doors-off” helicopter flights around the country while it studies the causes of this particular accident. This is a good start, but my constituents will not be safe until these dangerous, and frankly unnecessary, tourist flights are permanently banned. I will closely monitor these developments and will continue to advocate for the safety of the people of New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District.”
03.15.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – A bipartisan group of six Representatives introduced a resolution today expressing solidarity with the victims of the Russian chemical weapons attack in the United Kingdom and strong support for measures to counter Russian aggression. Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ), Jim Langevin (D-RI), George Holding (R-NC), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Tom Cole (R-OK), and Joe Wilson (R-SC) offered the resolution the day after UK Prime Minister Teresa May announced measures, including the expulsion of 23 Russian intelligence agents, in response to the attempted assassination of former Russian military intelligence officer Sergei Skripal. “This attack is a brazen violation of the sovereignty of the United Kingdom and of the rules-based international order,” the Representatives said in a joint statement. “The use of a chemical weapon is just the latest example of Russia’s attempts to undermine democratic institutions, and we stand together with our allies in stating unequivocally that this aggression cannot be tolerated.” Mr. Skripal, his daughter Yulia, and a first responder, Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, remain hospitalized after the March 4th attack. Analysis of the poison used has identified it as a bespoke chemical agent developed in the Soviet Union. Russia has consistently shown contempt for the gravity of the use of a chemical weapon banned even in wartime for an attack on foreign soil and has refused to provide any explanation for the incident. The resolution reaffirms the United States’ firm commitment to its ally, the United Kingdom, and its NATO partners and supports additional measures taken in response to Russia’s violation of international security and non-proliferation agreements.
03.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos recent comments about public education during a ‘60 Minutes’ interview with Lesley Stahl: “Since President Trump nominated Betsy DeVos to lead our nation’s education system it was clear that she had little regard for our public school system. Her comments on Sunday only reaffirmed her lack of experience in education and her commitment to privatizing education at the expense of our public schools. During her interview she displayed an utter lack of understanding of the needs of students in urban communities. As Ms. Stahl suggested, perhaps Secretary DeVos should consider actually stepping foot in some of these schools to truly comprehend why federal investments are vital in improving underperforming schools. Every student, regardless of where they live, should have access to a quality public education; I hope during her tenure, that Secretary DeVos grasps the concept of equality for all when it comes to public education.”
02.28.2018	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey’s plan to reinvest in its policyholders: “I am encouraged that Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey is using recent profits to assist their members with accessing affordable health care, particularly for their efforts to increase access to primary care in underserved areas and to improve addiction services. While strides have been made, too many New Jersey residents find affordable health care out of reach; Horizon’s initiative will hopefully help to provide some relief to its members.”
02.16.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the Justice Department’s indictment of thirteen Russians and three Russian entities for interfering in U.S. elections: “Today’s indictment is further proof of Putin’s continued attempts to undermine the integrity of our democracy. My colleagues and I in Congress have repeatedly urged the Trump Administration to stand up to Russia and take action to defend ourselves from these acts. Bipartisan legislation I supported to sanction Russian actors was signed into law by President Trump himself yet he refuses to enforce it. The President continues to ignore the will of Congress and the American people to sanction those individuals responsible for undermining our democracy. These are attacks on the foundation of our country and protecting against future intrusions should be our number one priority. In the wake of this indictment, it is essential that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation be allowed to continue unhindered so that we can discover the full extent of Russian interference and hold those responsible fully accountable for their actions. ”
02.15.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding yesterday’s shooting in Parkland, Florida: “My heart breaks for the victims of yesterday’s shooting and for their families and friends. 17 innocent lives were lost in yet another senseless act of violence. The community of Parkland, Florida has been struck by an unimaginable tragedy and my sincerest condolences go out to all those affected and I will continue to hold them in my thoughts as they grieve. I would also like to thank the brave first responders as well as the teachers and faculty who risked their lives to protect the students they teach every day. The time has long since passed for us to address the epidemic that is plaguing our country. We cannot continue to sit idly by as children are attacked in their schools, a place that should be a safe haven. I am ashamed that Congress has not enacted comprehensive legislation that could have prevented this incident and others like it, from happening. I call on Speaker Ryan to hold a vote on the numerous pieces of legislation that have been introduced in an attempt to restrict access to deadly weapons that are all too often turned on innocent civilians. We must do better.”
02.14.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s newly-released Infrastructure Plan: “President Trump’s long-awaited Infrastructure Initiative has finally been revealed, and it is unsurprisingly selfish in scope and particularly harmful to our communities. What was advertised to the American people as a $1.5 trillion Federal investment plan for our infrastructure actually only provides $200 billion over ten years. That, taken with his plan to cut more than $168 billion in Federal infrastructure funding over the same ten year period, does not add up to much at all. Taken at face value, however, $200 billion over ten years seems like a lot of money to invest in anything. Yet, a 2017 report by the American Society of Civil Engineers concludes that the only way we can address our infrastructure repair and upgrade backlog is by investing at least $2 trillion by 2025. This Administration’s investment does not even get us a quarter of the way there. Instead, the plan provides relatively-little funding while also rolling back the protections that keep public services from being privatized - all in the hope that States and cities can raise the $1.3 trillion that the President keeps promoting. This formula is designed to put the majority of the funding burden on taxpayers. For example, President Trump’s plan only allows the Federal government to provide a maximum of 20 percent investment in any infrastructure investment; eliminates current restrictions prohibiting tolling of Interstate highways; and places the most value on an infrastructure project application that can raise the most revenue, instead of for its usefulness to the community. It is easy to see how all these so-called incentives would place a remarkable burden on New Jersey’s taxpayers. This is nothing to say of the plan’s restrictions on Amtrak receiving funding; or that nothing in the plan ensures that Federal labor protections are upheld; or that Buy America provisions be honored. Put simply, this plan is a sham that falls well short of Candidate Trump’s promises and President Trump’s boasts, and would only hurt New Jersey’s taxpayers. ”
02.13.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to President Trump’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2019: “Mere months after handing out tax breaks to the wealthiest and corporations at the expense of the middle class, President Trump has released a budget proposal that will devastate working Americans by slashing vital programs that millions rely on. Once again, the President has proposed taking money from critical social programs that invest in communities across the country in order to begin construction of his unnecessary border wall. One of the crueler proposals is a cut of $213.5 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and a restructuring of the benefit system into a form of food box delivery system. The Administration has also chosen to entirely eliminate programs that provide affordable, livable housing, such as the successful Community Development Block Grants and the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). In addition, this budget will burden: public school teachers, who are receiving less funding due to an increased focus on private schools; law enforcement, who will see the COPS hiring program funding slashed in half; and those in need of care, who will lose their safety net as Medicare is cut by $554 billion and Medicaid by $250 billion over the next decade. It is clear to me that President Trump has unfairly placed the burden of his budget squarely on the backs of the American people. I will fight to fund programs that are critical to the 8th District and work with my colleagues to ensure that the President’s budget priorities are not passed into law.” Follow Congressman Sires on Twitter (@RepSires) and Facebook for further information on the President’s proposed budget.
02.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the National Transportation Safety Board’s finding on the probable cause of the September 2016 NJ Transit accident in Hoboken, New Jersey: “After a years-long investigation, the National Safety Transportation Board (NTSB) has found that the probable cause of the 2016 New Jersey Transit accident in Hoboken that killed 1 person and injured 110 others was the engineer’s fatigue resulting from his undiagnosed severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). That means that the engineer was literally falling asleep at the controls. NTSB also found that this safety problem is not unique to NJ Transit -- it exists around the country due to lax medical testing standards in public transportation. This is obviously unacceptable, which is why the Obama Administration’s Department of Transportation (DOT) was working on a federal rule to require bus, truck, and rail operators to be tested for OSA and to treat anyone found to be suffering from it. Ensuring that the people who have the lives of men, women, and children literally in their hands are capable of doing the job is common sense. What is more unacceptable, however, is that the Trump Administration pulled back on this proposed rule because it believes that the current safety programs are enough to address this issue. They are not. If they were, this would not have happened in Hoboken or in Brooklyn four months later. I strongly believe that DOT must continue working on a rule to test transit operators for OSA with input from the public and other stakeholders. That is why I am an original co-sponsor of H.R. 3882, introduced by fellow-New Jersey Representative Bill Pascrell, which directs DOT to continue and complete this important rulemaking process. Lives depend on it.”
02.02.2018	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the President’s decision to release the GOP Intelligence Memo written by Chairman Devin Nunes: “The President’s decision to release the memo written by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Nunes against the advice of senior FBI and DOJ leadership sets a dangerous precedent by politicizing strategic intelligence and changing the process by which highly classified information is declassified. It is extremely concerning that critical intelligence resources, imperative to our national security, are being jeopardized for partisan ends. It is essential that the integrity of our law enforcement agencies and the intelligence community be upheld.”
01.31.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address: “Last night, I did not attend President Trump’s State of the Union because time and time again he has chosen to divide the nation with vitriol and fear-mongering while governing for a select group at the expense of many others. Unfortunately, the President’s speech was more of the same misguided rhetoric and vague proposals. He touted the rushed Republican tax bill which prioritizes the wealthy and corporations over those who need tax relief the most. While tax breaks for corporations were made permanent, relief for individuals is only temporary and once they sunset people will see their tax bills increase. Even with the new tax cuts, a number of companies have turned around and begun to lay off workers. The President’s attempt at bipartisanship with a call for a $1.5 trillion investment in infrastructure rings hollow. It does not reconcile with the fact that his Administration has so far committed to no more than $200 billion in assistance from the federal government, leaving the states to find ways to raise the other $1.3 trillion. President Trump should match his rhetoric with reality, and he can start by coming out in support of federal financial assistance for important national and regional infrastructure projects such as the Gateway Project. Perhaps most disturbing was how the President continued to divide the nation, conflating students and industrious young people, who were brought here not of their own volition, with criminals who have committed horrendous acts. By choosing to see the worst in our nation’s immigrant community, President Trump has turned his back on what America has stood for since it was founded – a place where hard-working people could come and build a life for themselves and their families. The 8th District of New Jersey embodies this American tradition as a diverse community, filled with people from all walks of life who contribute to our society and economy every day. If the President was truly committed to bipartisanship and unity he would not use DREAMers as a bargaining chip or waver on his promise to help them as we approach his arbitrary deadline of March 5th. He would encourage a clean vote on bipartisan legislation that would give them a pathway to legal permanent residence and citizenship so that Congress could work together to craft comprehensive immigration reform. While I am disappointed in the message of last night, it is my hope that the President does not continue to divide our nation but instead chooses to govern for all those who call the United States of America home.”
01.19.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, H.R. 1660, the Global Health Innovation Act of 2017, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 423-3. At the beginning of the 115th Congress, Rep. Albio Sires and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced this piece of legislation to promote the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. “Infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth still claim the lives of millions around the world. I am proud to sponsor this legislation, with my friend Congressman Diaz-Balart, which seeks to improve the United States’ leadership in global health care” said Rep. Sires. “Investing in global health research is a key part of our foreign policy which can help increase national security, bolster foreign relations around the globe, and protect millions from infectious diseases. The United States must continue to be a leader and build upon USAID’s advancements in global health. I am grateful for the support of my colleagues in the House of Representatives and look forward to H.R. 1660 being considered by the Senate” Specifically, H.R. 1660 will provide the oversight needed to gain a clearer picture of the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) global health research and development. Over the years, research and development projects have greatly expanded at USAID, searching for advancements towards an HIV and AIDS free generation, preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and preventable infectious diseases. H.R. 1660 directs the USAID Administrator to report to Congress on the development and use of global health innovations in USAID programs, projects, and activities, ensuring that taxpayer dollars are being spent in the most efficient and effective ways possible. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart stated “I am proud to have again joined my friend, Congressman Sires, in introducing the Global Health Innovation Act. Investments in global health research and development are critical to making the world a safer, healthier place. These investments are critical to our national security, and will allow our researchers to deliver state-of-the-art medical devices and technologies abroad. The United States leads the world in global health R&D, and it is important that we continue to support programs in this field.”
01.12.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump’s referral to Haiti, El Salvador, and countries in Africa as ‘shithole’ countries: “Trump’s vulgar language is just another example of his disregard for hardworking Americans that come from all walks of life. I came to this country from Cuba as a young child and saw every day how hard my parents worked to make sure I had the opportunity for a better life. That is the same hard work I see time and again from people in my district, dedicating themselves to bettering their communities and making our country a better place for future generations. It unfortunately comes as no surprise that the President has no respect for immigrant communities and views himself as superior to people that don’t look, talk, and act like him. Making racist comments against people who have been living in America for centuries and have worked tirelessly to lift our great nation up is disgraceful. Diversity is one of America’s greatest strengths and sadly our President seems unable to grasp what really does make America great."
01.08.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for almost 200,000 Salvadorans: “By ending the TPS designation for Salvadorans, President Trump has continued the Administration’s pattern of anti-immigrant actions. After fleeing their homes following a terrible earthquake, the nearly 200,000 Salvadorans residing in the United States with TPS have been here legally since 2001 and contribute to our economy and society every day. They are our neighbors, friends, and colleagues as well as the parents of nearly 200,000 U.S. citizens. President Trump’s heartless and unnecessary decision will tear apart families across the country that have come to call the United States home.”
01.05.2018	“I am deeply saddened to hear about the death of Governor Brendan Byrne who passed away earlier today,” said Sires. “The residents of New Jersey and the Byrne family have lost a beloved patriarch. My sympathies go out to his wife, Ruthie, and the entire Byrne family. Governor Byrne served his country with pride during World War II and spent his entire career in public service, working as a counsel to former Governor Meyner, the Essex County Prosecutor, a Superior Court Judge, and finally serving his own two terms as Governor. He was a champion for all people and believed that everyone should have the chance to realize their fullest potential.”
12.19.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires voted against the Conference Report on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 227-203. “For the second time in a few short weeks the House of Representatives has passed a deceptive, one-sided bill that was pushed through without a single hearing and will burden millions of families for decades to come. This bill will harm millions of people in order to benefit just a select few. I am extremely disappointed in my colleagues who have voted to explode the national deficit in order to cover tax cuts for the wealthy and permanent tax breaks for corporations” said Rep. Sires. Specifically, this bill makes tax breaks for corporations that will benefit foreign shareholders permanent, while 86 million middle class American families will see their taxes increase once temporary tax breaks expire. In the Conference Report, the state and local tax (SALT) deduction is limited, directly and negatively impacting millions of New Jersey families where the average SALT deduction is worth well over the new limit of $10,000. While families will be hit with higher tax rates as a result of the limiting of SALT and property tax deductions, the wealthiest income bracket will be receiving a 2.5% tax break on their income tax. In addition, by adding an estimated $2.2 trillion to the national deficit, this tax plan would trigger an automatic cut to vital programs, like Medicare, that millions rely on. The bill also includes another attack on health care by repealing the individual mandate. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this will result in 13 million Americans losing coverage over the next decade and cause premiums to spike for those who are most desperately in need of care. “On top of a lower tax rate, there are numerous provisions that will directly benefit the wealthy, such as owners of private jets and golf courses” stated Rep. Sires. “The wealthiest in our nation, including those who hold public office, are the last people we should be prioritizing when there are millions who need tax relief in order to keep their heads above water. I have ardently opposed this bill in all its forms and I condemn its passage today in the House of Representatives.” The Conference Report is now awaiting further consideration in the Senate.
12.18.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement in support of a clean vote on the bipartisan Dream Act which would create a pathway to citizenship for thousands of Dreamers: “Every day that Congress does not act to codify Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) protections, 122 Dreamers lose their status and are at risk for deportation. Congress cannot abandon Dreamers, who were brought here as young children and know no country but America as their home. Hundreds of thousands of young people who enrich our society and contribute to the economy are forced to live in fear that they will be torn from home because of Congress’s inaction. The Dream Act would create a pathway to citizenship for the law-abiding Dreamers who came out of the shadows and put their trust in our government. I call on GOP leadership to do the right thing and allow a vote on the bipartisan Dream Act immediately.”
12.08.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement in response to FCC Chairman Pai’s proposal to repeal net neutrality rules: “I strongly support an open and vibrant internet as our economy and productivity rely on it. The FCC’s rushed rule making process is highly concerning and has been done without adequate consideration or input from all stakeholders who would be impacted by such a sweeping decision. This move follows the same pattern of irresponsible proposals put forth by the Trump Administration that impede consumer interests. Congress should have the final say on any proposal that would alter net neutrality rules to ensure that laws are not enacted that could have a harmful impact on consumers, small businesses, and jobs.”
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Albio Sires (D-NJ), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Ted Yoho (R-FL), members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017 to ensure a credible and rigorous analysis of the effectiveness of United States investments in multilateral entities. Congressman Sires: “U.S. foreign assistance is critical, but with increasingly limited diplomatic resources, it is essential to ensure that this assistance is being used effectively. This bill would provide greater oversight by assessing the efficacy of U.S. investments in multilateral entities, which will provide an important tool to guide U.S. funding decisions. Consequently, this bill would also create incentives for performance improvements, greater transparency, and accountability amongst multilateral entities.” Congressman McCaul: “United States government agencies collectively spent over $10 billion on funding multilateral entities in fiscal year 2016. While this assistance is vital, it is in the best interest of the U.S. to assess the value of these investments. That is why I am proud to work with Congressmen Sires and Yoho to introduce this bill that will help maximize the impact of our limited foreign assistance dollars.” Congressman Yoho: “Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent funding multilateral agencies such as the United Nations. It is imperative that the United States begins assessing the multilateral system and its effectiveness to guarantee that the United States’ priorities and goals are being best served. The multilateral system has the potential to be great and to be more than the sum of its parts. However, years of inept leadership and corruption have diminished the effectiveness of certain parts of the multilateral system. The Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017 will give the necessary tools to the United States to help right the multilateral system and make it more effective.” Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017: Provides a tool to guide the United States Government’s decision-making and prioritization with regard to funding multilateral organizations, and to provide a methodological basis for allocating scarce budgetary resources to those that advance relevant United States foreign policy objectives; Incentivizes improvements in the performance of multilateral entities to achieve better on-the-ground outcomes in developing, fragile, and crisis-afflicted regions; Protects United States taxpayer investments in foreign assistance by improving transparency with regard to the funding of multilateral bodies.
11.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 227-205: “I am extremely disappointed that many of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have voted for a tax plan that greatly disadvantages working Americans to provide tax breaks for the wealthy and corporations. New Jerseyans, and people across the nation, will suffer if the bill that was passed today becomes law. This plan will add at least $1.5 trillion to the national deficit and removes deductions and exemptions that millions of families use every year including deductions for state and local taxes, medical expenses, student loans, and property losses. Due to the cruel restructuring of our system, over the next decade 27% of New Jerseyans would see an average tax increase of $2,200 while the top 1% would receive an average tax break of $25,100. True tax reform should be a bipartisan undertaking that is crafted with input from individuals and groups across the country, not forced through the House of Representatives in two weeks without a single hearing. I remain opposed to the GOP plan which was clearly designed to benefit the wealthy, not the majority of Americans. We must do better. ”
11.13.2017	NEWARK, N.J. – Today in Newark, NJ, Representative Albio Sires (D-08), along with Governor-elect Phil Murphy and Democratic members of the New Jersey House delegation, discussed the impact of the House Republican’s tax plan on New Jersey. The plan is estimated to cost many New Jersey families thousands of dollars a year. A total of 1.8 million New Jersey households deduct a cumulative $17 billion in state income or sales taxes from their federal taxes. Those tax deductions would be eliminated under the House GOP bill. Meanwhile, the GOP plan caps deductions on property taxes at $10,000 and removes deductions for student loans, medical expenses, and more. U.S. Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), U.S. Rep. Donald Payne (NJ-10), and U.S. Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01) joined Rep. Sires. Representatives from New Jersey Policy Perspective and NJ Citizen Action also attended. Video from the event can be found here. A recent New Jersey Policy Perspective report found that the bulk of the tax cut in the GOP tax plan would go to the top 5 percent of wealthy households in New Jersey. New Jersey would be the third hardest hit state as a result of the GOP tax plan. About 27 percent of New Jerseyans would see a tax increase of $2,200 in federal taxes. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would increase the national deficit and eliminate numerous deductions that millions of middle class families use every year to pay for cuts in the corporate tax rate and massive tax breaks for the wealthy” said Rep. Albio Sires. “Particularly devastating for New Jersey is the partial repeal of the state and local tax deduction which has been part of the tax code for over 100 years and is used by many New Jersey families. The bill also does away with a standard deduction for the elderly as well as deductions for student-loan interest, medical expenses, and property losses. Tax reform should be a bipartisan effort to simplify the tax code in a way that is fair and stimulating for the economy, not a one-sided plan crafted behind closed doors that targets those who are most in need of tax relief.” “Let’s be clear what this plan would be — a massive tax hike on seniors, on the middle-class, and on working families in our state. There’s no other way to put it,” said Governor-elect Phil Murphy. “I am proud to stand with our Congressional delegation in opposing this scheme that would hurt our state and our residents. I said many times during the campaign that when New Jersey is targeted by wrong-headed policies coming from Washington, I won’t be silent. And I will continue to fight alongside our representatives to kill this bill.” “The GOP tax plan continues to threaten New Jersey’s working families by limiting state and local tax deductions,” said Pallone. “Taking away these deductions is simply unacceptable given the tax burden already facing New Jerseyans. I will never support a tax plan that makes it harder for working families to make ends meet, in order to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. My Democratic colleagues and I will fight for New Jerseyans and against the GOP’s 'Tax Scam' every step of the way.” "The middle class has been squeezed with decades of anemic wage growth and rising costs for housing, healthcare, and education,” said Rep. Pascrell. “Yet, at a time of historic inequality and record corporate profits, Republicans in Congress seem to think more corporate giveaways are the answer. I fought against their bill in committee because it will make homeownership, housing, and education more expensive for New Jersey families. The elimination of the State and Local Tax Deduction will devastate homeowners in New Jersey and hurt our economy overall. On top of the elimination of most itemized deductions and personal exemptions, this legislation amounts to a tax increase for the average New Jersey taxpayer. I will not stand for that." “Republicans want to fund their billionaire friends’ tax cuts by taking the state and local tax deduction away from lower- and middle-income families. That doesn’t work for New Jersey, and it doesn’t work for the American people,” said Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. “I will continue to stand for a fairer tax plan that makes billionaires and corporations pay their fair share.” “Americans agree we need more jobs, higher wages and lower taxes, but the Ryan-Trump taxplan is just welfare for the wealthy paid for by hardworking families,” said Rep. Norcross. “Itrewards billionaires, prioritizes corporate profits and punishes New Jersey families by gutting critical state and local tax deductions. We must reject this bill that will do nothing to raise wages or bring real relief for working Americans.” “This Trump-Republican tax scam is dangerous and irresponsible all in the name of handing out billions in tax giveaways for millionaires, billionaires, and big corporations,” said Rep. Watson Coleman. “Despite the misinformation peddled by proponents of this plan, New Jersey residents stand to be acutely and disproportionately harmed by this bill, where more than 1 in 4 of our families would pay an average of $2,200 more in federal taxes each year. It torpedoes state and local tax deductions. It slashes deductions on mortgage interest. It eliminates deductions for medical debt. It eliminates the student loan deduction. I know my constituents didn’t send me to Washington to raise their taxes so that the rich can get a tax cut and leave our children mired in trillions of dollars in debt. This proposal is just the latest example of the GOP’s true priority-- lining the pockets of their donors and friends instead of working in the best interest of the people they represent. I will continue to stand with my colleagues to beat back this assault on the livelihood of New Jerseyans, our hardworking men and women and the families they support.”
11.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the Republican tax plan: “As I’ve said before, this Republican tax plan prioritizes the wealthy and corporations over working American families while adding $1.5 trillion to our national deficit over the next decade. Tax reform should be a bipartisan effort to simplify the tax code in a way that is fair and stimulating for the economy, not a one-sided plan crafted behind closed doors. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act eliminates numerous deductions that millions of middle class families use every year to pay for cuts in the corporate tax rate, massive tax breaks for the wealthy and the delayed repeal of the estate tax. Particularly devastating for New Jersey is the partial repeal of the state and local tax deduction which has been part of the tax code for over 100 years and is used by many New Jersey families. The local property tax would be capped at $10,000 and the deduction of state incomes would be eliminated. On top of this, mortgage interest deductions for new homebuyers would be cut in half, capping the deductible interest to the first $500,000 worth of home loans. The bill also does away with a standard deduction for the elderly as well as deductions for student-loan interest, medical expenses, and property losses. These eliminations heartlessly target those who are most in need of tax relief and are particularly cruel in the wake of the numerous natural disasters we have experienced this year that have left millions with property damage and unexpected medical bills.”
10.31.2017	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman Emeritus of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), and Rep. Alex X. Mooney (R-WV) submitted a request to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate how the State Department responded to sonic attacks against U.S. and Canadian diplomats and their families in Cuba. Joint Statement by Ros-Lehtinen and Sires: “With more than 24 American diplomats and their family members now having received treatment due to the attacks in Cuba, we want to ensure that the State Department responded appropriately and has implemented proper procedures should additional incidents occur in the future. We have asked GAO to investigate the timeline of events, how State responded when the attacks began, and what steps State took to address the medical needs of U.S. personnel and citizens. We are also asking GAO to look at what lessons State has learned and if it has identified vulnerabilities in its security programs. It is not new that the Castro regime undermines our national security at every turn and has always posed a threat to U.S. citizens in Cuba so it is no surprise that Havana cannot protect and ensure the safety of U.S. personnel under its Vienna obligations. We must ensure that the necessary policies are in place to ensure the safety of our government personnel and all U.S. citizens overseas.”
10.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the disappointing passage of the Senate Amendment to the House Republican Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolution by a vote of 216-212: “This budget follows a pattern of partisan proposals that slash vital services to provide tax cuts for the wealthiest individuals and corporations. It cuts Medicare, Medicaid, student loan programs, as well as investments in infrastructure, job training, and clean energy research and development. Not only does this budget threaten our country’s economic growth and make it harder for the middle class to afford essential services, it creates a fast-track for the Ryan-McConnell tax plan to pass in the Senate. If that tax plan were to pass, it would provide massive tax cuts to the wealthy while increasing base rates for middle-class families and is predicted to increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. I am extremely disappointed that 216 of my colleagues have voted to prioritize the wealthiest over the needs of American families.”
10.12.2017	(Washington, DC) – Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump is considering withholding certification for the Iran Nuclear Agreement, also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “I have long supported efforts to pursue a peaceful path to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions and voiced my deep skepticism that the agreement itself would be able to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. However, since its implementation I have argued that we need to be doing everything we can to enforce the agreement to its fullest extent, including conducting the most stringent and intrusive inspections to verify that Iran is compliant with the agreement and unable to skirt the parameters undetected. We also need to work with our allies and partners around the world to hold Iran accountable for its non-nuclear transgressions. Any effort to change the deal has to be comprehensive and thoughtful. The President should listen to his military experts and advisors when they say that enforcing this deal is in the national security interest of the United States.”
10.12.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the President’s most recent tweets about disaster response resources in Puerto Rico: “The President’s tweets threatening to remove FEMA, the military, and other responders are heartless and completely unacceptable. Our fellow Americans on Puerto Rico are still suffering from the unimaginable devastation left in the wake of Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Much of the island is still without power, reliable access to drinking water, or medical care. We must help Puerto Rico recover and rebuild, not tweet threats about removing aid.”
10.10.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the recent events in the region of Catalonia: “I am encouraged that the government of Catalonia has taken steps to suspend its quest for independence. Holding elections that are deemed illegal by the Spanish Constitutional Court is not the best way forward for a peaceful and prosperous Spain. Instead of making rash decisions that continue to deteriorate relations with Madrid, the Catalan government should now focus on working towards a peaceful solution with the central government to ensure that the stability of the region is not jeopardized.”
10.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – This week, in the wake of the senseless tragedy in Las Vegas that claimed dozens of lives, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues to introduce H.R. 3962, the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act, led by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ) and H.R. 3947, the Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act, led by Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI). “Like many Americans across the country, I continue to be deeply troubled by the proliferation of gun violence and mass shootings in our country. We cannot afford to sit in silence as the gun control epidemic plaguing our country continues to grow” stated Rep. Sires. The Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act would place limits on online ammunition sales by requiring federally licensed ammunition dealers to verify the identity of individuals who arrange sales over the internet. It would also require vendors to report sales of over 1,000 rounds within five consecutive days to the U.S. Attorney General if the purchaser is not a licensed dealer. The Automatic Gunfire Prevention Act would ban the manufacture, possession, transfer, sale, or importation of bump stocks. Bump stocks, like the ones used in Las Vegas, can be attached to a semi-automatic weapon to allow it to fire at a rate of 400 to 800 rounds per minute, essentially producing the rate of fire of a fully automatic weapon. While fully automatic weapons are highly regulated, the sale of bump stocks is not. “After the tragic loss of life in Las Vegas, I once again call on my colleagues in Congress to enact long-term reforms to save lives and prevent these deadly weapons from getting into the hands of those who wish to harm others. These two pieces of legislation are commonsense measures that will make our country a safer place by regulating the online sale of ammunition and banning bump stocks. It is my hope that Speaker Ryan will listen to the call of the American people and bring necessary gun violence legislation to the House Floor for a vote.”
10.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires voted against the House Republican budget for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 because it includes massive tax cuts for the wealthy while slashing vital services for the American people. “I am extremely disappointed that my Republican colleagues have prioritized tax cuts for the wealthiest individuals and corporations over the needs of American families” stated Rep. Sires. “This partisan budget is a vehicle for the Ryan-McConnell Tax Plan to pass in the Senate through reconciliation – requiring only 51votes instead of 60. If that tax plan were to pass, it would provide massive tax cuts to the wealthy while increasing base rates for middle-class families and is predicted to increase the deficit by $2.4 trillion over 10 years.” The Republican budget increases FY 2018 defense discretionary spending and provides funding to start constructing an expensive and ineffectual border wall. It also slashes nondefense discretionary spending for investments used to grow our economy in education, infrastructure, job training, and medical research while cutting Medicaid by $1.1 trillion, Medicare by $487 billion, and student loan aid by $211 billion all over 10 years. “The Republican spending proposal makes it harder for students to obtain a higher education, destabilizes retirement and healthcare, and slows down our economic growth by cutting funds for infrastructure development and other job creating programs, all while ensuring the rich get a massive tax break” expressed Rep. Sires. Congressman Sires instead supported the Democratic Alternative Budget Resolution which prioritizes investments in economic growth to create opportunities for American families by raising the minimum wage. It also includes comprehensive immigration reform and provides funding for national security and disaster relief to rebuild from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
10.03.2017	(Washington, DC) – Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere made the following statement today after H.R. 1918, the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA) of 2017, unanimously passed the House of Representatives: “I would like to thank my good friend from Florida Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a tireless advocate for those fighting for democracy around the world for her commitment to the Nicaraguan people. Daniel Ortega and his family continue to get rich while the Nicaraguan people suffer. Being a corrupt democracy in name only cannot go on without consequences. This bill ensures that Ortega and his cronies can’t continue to line their pockets with cash and steal money meant for the hardworking Nicaraguan people. I applaud my colleagues in the House for unanimously passing this legislation and look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to help the NICA Act get signed into law.”
10.02.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding last night’s shooting in Las Vegas: “Once again our Nation faces another act of senseless violence that has taken the lives of at least 50 people and wounded hundreds more. I am saddened and troubled by this most recent attack on innocent civilians outside the Mandalay Bay Hotel in Las Vegas, and I would like to offer my sincerest condolences to all the victims and their families. I would like to thank all the first responders for their ongoing efforts as this investigation continues. Acts like these are becoming all too frequent in our country, and they are a solemn reminder of the need for Congress to work together to adopt comprehensive legislation that address mass violence incidents such as these. I am confident that the Las Vegas community will prove resilient in the wake of such tragedy and I will keep those affected in my thoughts and prayers as the community continues to come to terms with the events of last night.”
10.02.2017	“I am deeply saddened to hear about the death of my good friend former Hudson County Freeholder Eliu Rivera who passed away earlier today in Aibonito, Puerto Rico ,” said Sires. “The residents of Jersey City, Hudson County and the entire State of New Jersey lost a great leader and the Rivera family has lost a beloved patriarch. My sympathies go out to the entire Rivera family. Eliu was one of the founding members of Puertoriquenos Associados Community Organization better known P.A.C.O. In Jersey City. His leadership efforts on behalf of the Puerto Rican community as well as those less fortunate will succeed him for many years to come. He was a champion for all people and believed that everyone should have the chance to realize their potential to the fullest. Eliu's fight against discrimination and consideration for the underrepresented will never be forgotten."
09.30.2017	(Jersey City, N.J.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding POTUS latest tweet about the Mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico: "The Island of Puerto Rico and its residents have been faced with an unprecedented disaster with Hurricane Maria. The President's latest comments regarding the Mayor of San Juan are uncalled for. This is a humanitarian crisis and the people of Puerto Rico deserve every resource available by this Administration. Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz and all the residents of Puerto Rico are struggling tirelessly to cope with this disaster and they deserve our assistance not criticism. I will continue to fight for the residents of Puerto Rico along with my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to make certain that they receive the needed resources during this difficult time."
09.29.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision to order the departure of non-emergency personnel and family members assigned to the U.S. Embassy in Havana, Cuba in response to continued sonic attacks against U.S. Embassy personnel: “The health and safety of our embassy community is a top priority and these continued attacks against U.S. officials are very troubling. Americans living abroad and serving our country have the right to know they will not be targeted while conducting their work. I am troubled to hear that these mysterious sonic attacks against U.S. officials continue to occur without repercussion. It is unacceptable for a host country to not to maintain a reasonable level of safety for the diplomatic communities living there. If these attacks do not cease and the perpetrators remain at large, further action must be taken, to hold the Castro regime accountable, and do whatever is necessary to protect the brave Americans serving abroad.
09.28.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement in response to the Administration’s decision to temporarily waive the Jones Act for 10 days to provide assistance in sending supplies to Puerto Rico: “I am pleased that the Administration has taken the long overdue step of waiving the Jones Act so that Puerto Rico can receive aid quickly without the additional costs that accompany the restrictions. The Jones Act was quickly lifted to help Texas and Florida recover after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma and the same should have been done for Puerto Rico immediately to prevent a delay in the delivery of desperately needed resources. While 10 days is a good start, I urge the Administration to extend the waiver if necessary to ensure that equipment needed to repair vital infrastructure can be delivered efficiently.”
09.28.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price’s use of taxpayer funds for private plane trips: “As an appointed public servant, it is Secretary Price’s duty to put the interest of the American taxpayers above his personal interests. Secretary Price’s chartered plane trips are a gross misuse of public resources and taxpayer dollars. I condemn this abuse of power and hope that appropriate punitive action will be taken in response. The use of public funds for chartered jets is inappropriate and wrong, and it would behoove Secretary Price to reimburse taxpayers for his frivolous misuse of government resources. The American people deserve better. ”
09.27.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires joined over 140 of his colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump demanding more resources for recovery efforts in Puerto Rico. The letter requests that President Trump further mobilize the Department of Defense (DOD) in its disaster relief response to Puerto Rico. Current DOD missions have been deployed to the island, yet more immediate assistance is needed. “Puerto Rico is facing a level of devastation that could rapidly become a humanitarian crisis if adequate resources are not immediately sent to the island. Despite increased personnel and ongoing recovery efforts, the current response does not match the enormity of the situation” said Rep. Sires. “My colleagues and I demand that the Administration act immediately and effectively to provide the necessary supplies, personnel, and funds to our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico.” The letter requests DOD to take multiple steps to intensify its mission, including the deployment of aviation assets to deliver supplies and the appointment of a senior general officer to coordinate with FEMA. Other requests include logistical support for rescuing citizens, restoring power and telecommunication infrastructure, and protecting communities from looting. The letter also requests that the USS Abraham Lincoln carrier be sent to the region, just as it was deployed to Miami following Hurricane Irma.
09.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding Hurricane Maria and recovery efforts in Puerto Rico: “In the wake of Hurricanes Irma and Maria, which destroyed the island’s infrastructure, our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico are without power, food, and water. Food and water are desperately needed and infrastructure must be rebuilt so aid can be delivered quickly throughout the whole island. While there are some disaster relief and military teams on the ground, more can and should be done. We must prioritize measures to ensure that the current disaster does not become a humanitarian crisis. We cannot sit idly by while the residents of Puerto Rico are trapped without access to shelter, sustenance, or medical services. The Administration must take immediate action to increase funding, personnel, and equipment so we can address the immediate needs of Puerto Ricans and help them rebuild their homes.”
09.21.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement opposing the latest Republican proposal to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act: “Earlier this summer the American people were loud and clear when they rejected Republican proposals that would increase health care costs and gut coverage for millions of people. Instead of working with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Republicans are yet again attempting to jam through Congress another Trumpcare plan that would having devastating impacts across the country. Specifically, the Graham-Cassidy bill would rip away the promise of affordable quality health care in America by repealing Medicaid expansion, premium tax credits, and insurance subsidies. Instead block grants would be provided to states to use at their discretion on a broad array of health care options. Funding would be redistributed in such a way that it would actually punish states that expanded coverage under the ACA through Medicaid expansion and marketplace enrollment and reward states that outright rejected any ACA guidance to expand health care coverage. According to a recent report by Avalere Health, New Jersey would be one of 34 states that would see dramatic cuts to federal funding under the Graham-Cassidy bill. The report predicts that New Jersey could lose up to $10 billion under the first six years of the plan. Without the additional federal funding, an estimated 900,000 New Jerseyans could be at risk of losing their health insurance. Perhaps cruelest of all, the Graham-Cassidy bill would once again restrict coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions by allowing states to apply for waivers to limit coverage. Rather than continuing to champion proposals that would deliver devastation to millions of Americans, Republicans should be working with Democrats on productive, bipartisan solutions to stabilize the insurance marketplaces and drive down costs for families.”
09.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement after Attorney General Sessions announced the President’s decision to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The President’s cruel and reprehensible decision to end DACA with a six month delay is inhumane and devastating for families and communities across the country. In doing so, the President is also hurting our economy and our national security while diverting critical law enforcement efforts that should be focused on those who pose a true danger to public safety. Since it was launched in 2012, DACA has helped hundreds of thousands of eligible young people come out of the shadows to better themselves and their communities without the fear of being separated from their loved ones and sent to a place of which they might have no memory. This decision targets millions of hardworking people who were brought here as young children and know no country but America as their home. DACA recipients are our neighbors, friends, and colleagues. They are students, doctors, engineers, and leaders in our military who are dedicated to our nation. Just this week, we saw how far this dedication goes when Alonso Guillén, a DACA recipient, tragically lost his life while rescuing people stranded in the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. America was built on the hard work of immigrants and our diversity is part of the foundation of our nation. Unlike the President, I will not abandon the nearly 800,000 DREAMers who have put their trust in our government and who contribute to our society every day. This decision is another manifestation of the President’s anti-immigrant rhetoric that has emboldened hatred, racism, and bigotry. Following last month’s pardon of Joe Arpaio, who built his career on targeting and tormenting Latinos, today’s announcement shows that the President will continue this divisive and unconscionable pattern. It is insulting for him to use the rule of law as justification for ending DACA when he rapidly pardoned a man who routinely violated the rights of Latinos and ignored the directives of the court. It is long past time for Congress to step up and protect the thousands of families that will be torn apart because of the President’s indefensible decision. We must pass legislation to ensure DACA recipients are protected and work to create comprehensive immigration reform to fix our broken immigration system in a way that treats those coming to this country in search for a better life with dignity and respect. I want to repeat my commitment to the nearly 800,000 DREAMers and their families who have been heartlessly abandoned by the Executive Branch.”
09.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement after Attorney General Sessions announced the President’s decision to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “The President’s cruel and reprehensible decision to end DACA with a six month delay is inhumane and devastating for families and communities across the country. In doing so, the President is also hurting our economy and our national security while diverting critical law enforcement efforts that should be focused on those who pose a true danger to public safety. Since it was launched in 2012, DACA has helped hundreds of thousands of eligible young people come out of the shadows to better themselves and their communities without the fear of being separated from their loved ones and sent to a place of which they might have no memory. This decision targets millions of hardworking people who were brought here as young children and know no country but America as their home. DACA recipients are our neighbors, friends, and colleagues. They are students, doctors, engineers, and leaders in our military who are dedicated to our nation. Just this week, we saw how far this dedication goes when Alonso Guillén, a DACA recipient, tragically lost his life while rescuing people stranded in the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. America was built on the hard work of immigrants and our diversity is part of the foundation of our nation. Unlike the President, I will not abandon the nearly 800,000 DREAMers who have put their trust in our government and who contribute to our society every day. This decision is another manifestation of the President’s anti-immigrant rhetoric that has emboldened hatred, racism, and bigotry. Following last month’s pardon of Joe Arpaio, who built his career on targeting and tormenting Latinos, today’s announcement shows that the President will continue this divisive and unconscionable pattern. It is insulting for him to use the rule of law as justification for ending DACA when he rapidly pardoned a man who routinely violated the rights of Latinos and ignored the directives of the court. It is long past time for Congress to step up and protect the thousands of families that will be torn apart because of the President’s indefensible decision. We must pass legislation to ensure DACA recipients are protected and work to create comprehensive immigration reform to fix our broken immigration system in a way that treats those coming to this country in search for a better life with dignity and respect. I want to repeat my commitment to the nearly 800,000 DREAMers and their families who have been heartlessly abandoned by the Executive Branch.”
08.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump's decision to pardon former Sheriff Joe Arpaio who was convicted of criminal contempt of court:"Last night, President Trump once again proved he is willing to give a rubber stamp of approval to racism and bigotry when he pardoned Joe Arpaio. Arpaio repeatedly targeted, tormented, and harassed Latinos based on their race, routinely violating the 4th Amendment. By ignoring the court's ruling and abusing his power to pardon one of his early supporters, the President has shown a complete disrespect for the rule of law and elevated a man who sought to sow fear and distrust across the country. Rather than working to unite the nation, this action follows in the President's pattern of divisiveness and goes against the core values of our nation. I condemn his actions and will continue to stand against racism, bigotry, and hatred in all its forms."
08.23.2017	(Washington, D.C.) — Representative Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere; Representative Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), the Chairman Emeritus of the Committee, today made the following statement regarding recent developments in Guatemala: “As strong supporters of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle, we reaffirm our commitment and support for the efforts of President Morales, Attorney General Aldana, and CICIG Commissioner Velásquez to combat corruption and impunity in Guatemala. All parties involved, including the private sector, must find ways to work together in a collaborative effort to root out corruption once and for all. To that end, we recognize that President Morales has increased the budget for the Attorney General’s office, and we welcome this development. “Attorney General Aldana and Commissioner Velásquez have done extraordinary work combating corruption and impunity in Guatemala, and we urge President Morales to continue supporting these important institutions. “The removal of Commissioner Velásquez would force members of Congress to make tough decisions regarding the amount and nature of future foreign assistance to Guatemala.”
07.31.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding sanctions against Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela: "There is no doubt that Maduro used this sham constituent assembly to declare himself leader for life in Venezuela. For years, Maduro has been working to consolidate power, chip away at Venezuela's democracy, and disenfranchise the innocent Venezuelan people. Holding him accountable for his actions, calling this power grab out for what it is, and standing shoulder to shoulder with the Venezuelan people should be a top priority for all of our allies and neighbors in the Western Hemisphere.”
07.31.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding Venezuela’s constituent assembly vote: "Maduro continues his quest to complete the 'Cubanization' of Venezuela and destroy all remaining democratic institutions. His sham constituent assembly was nothing more than a desperate move to shut out pro-democracy leaders who are fighting for the Venezuelan people. The Venezuelan people have shown tremendous courage and commitment to fighting for their country and I stand with them in their efforts to maintain strong democratic principles. I commend our partners in Mexico, Canada, Argentina, Peru, Panama, Brazil, and Colombia in calling out this fraudulent vote for what it is- a total farce. I implore our other allies in the region to be on the right side of history during this historic time and stand with the Venezuelan people who are asking for nothing more than their human and constitutional rights."
07.28.2017	(Washington D.C.) – Congressman Sires congratulated the Hoboken Fire Department for receiving a grant worth $667, 539 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funding was awarded by the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program which seeks to increase the number of trained firefighters in communities. This program provides grants to fire department and volunteer firefighter organizations in order to allow them to hire new career firefighters, rehire recently laid-off firefighters, or to recruit or retain firefighters. “I am very pleased that the Hoboken Fire Department has received this award which will allow our communities to have a faster, safer, and more efficient emergency response,” said Rep. Sires. “This critical funding will provide our emergency responders with the necessary tools to continue keeping our communities safe.”
07.27.2017	(Washington, DC) – Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chairman Emeritus of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following statement today after H.R. 1918, the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA) of 2017, was unanimously passed by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs by voice vote. “Already enjoying tremendous bipartisan support, the NICA Act is an important and necessary bill that would assist the Nicaraguan people in their fight for human rights, the rule of law, and a free, fair, and transparent electoral system. Congress has implemented similar conditions in order to support the people of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador, and the United States must do the same for the Nicaraguan people as they continue to seek freedom and democracy. We applaud the Foreign Affairs Committee for its passage of the NICA Act and look forward to its consideration on the House Floor as we work to ensure this bill becomes law.”
07.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement banning transgender men and women from military service: “Once again, President Trump has used divisive and prejudiced rhetoric to codify discrimination against individuals, this time based on their sexual orientation and gender identity. Thousands of patriotic transgender men and women are already members of our military and the President’s announcement that these Americans will no longer be allowed to serve their country is an affront to the courageous men and women who risk their lives to protect our freedom and our values. This decision goes against a bipartisan vote in the House of Representatives to stand up to discrimination against transgender service members. The President’s directive is a step backward, endangering our national security and undermining the values our society is built on. I will continue to stand against prejudice and fight for the brave men and women who sacrifice so much to protect our country.”
07.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires voted in favor of legislation to increase and strengthen sanctions against Iran, North Korea, and Russia. H.R. 3364, the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 419 to 3. This legislation would expand and reinforce sanctions against entities who engage with countries that have perpetrated acts of aggression against the United States, its allies, or its interests. “This comprehensive legislation is a crucial step in combating the aggression of three countries who are intent on undermining democracy, committed to destabilizing behavior, and threaten the safety and security of U.S. interests at home and abroad. Our U.S. Intelligence Community has confirmed that the Russian government interfered in the 2016 Presidential Election so it is essential that Congress work together to take punitive actions against Putin. Foreign interference in our democratic process is a nonpartisan issue and this sanctions bill will give Congress the oversight it needs to hold Russia accountable for its attacks against our democracy,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, this legislation would protect existing sanctions against Russia that were issued under the Obama Administration, and grant Congress the authority to reject any efforts by President Trump to water down or terminate sanctions related to Russian aggression. Additionally, this bill would impose sanctions on any entities engaged in business with the Russian military or intelligence agencies, or Russian oligarchs connected to Putin. H.R. 3364 would also fight Iran’s continued pursuit of its ballistic missile program by mandating new sanctions against any individuals who assist Iran’s pursuit of ballistic missiles and strengthen sanctions against Iran’s worst human rights abusers. In regards to North Korea, this legislation would expand sanctions against North Korea, and close loopholes that have long been exploited by Kim Jong-Un to fund his illegal weapons program. “Iran and North Korea have continuously demonstrated their disregard for international law and their commitment to causing unrest around the world. This legislation signals to Tehran and Pyongyang that such actions have serious consequences. Iran maintains its reckless pursuit of ballistic missiles while oppressing its own people, and North Koreans live without basic necessities under an abusive regime. Combating these threats is critical to creating enduring safety and stability around the world, and it is up to the United States to lead the charge in this pursuit,” expressed Congressman Sires. H.R. 3364 now awaits further action in the Senate.
06.22.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement of opposition on the Senate GOP’s plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act: “After working so hard to hide their plan from the American people, Senate Republicans finally released their version of Trumpcare and it is just as heartless as the one House Republicans rushed through the chamber last month. Like the House plan, the Senate GOP’s plan means higher health care costs, millions of hard-working Americans losing health coverage, key protections stripped, and a crushing age tax on seniors- all while providing a massive tax cut for the rich. Specifically, like the House plan, the Senate proposal would eliminate the expansion of Medicaid that has provided 14 million more Americans access to health care. But the Senate Republicans didn’t stop there; the plan also cuts future federal funding for Medicaid by capping Medicaid payments to states that rely on the federal funding to cover health costs of vulnerable children and seniors. The GOP plan in the Senate would also decrease the amount of subsidies currently provided under the Affordable Care Act to help low-and moderate-income families pay for health insurance. To further devastate seniors, the Senate GOP kept the House provision that would allow insurers to charge seniors five times the rate of a younger consumer. It’s clear that the Senate is not serious about improving the Trumpcare disaster that passed out of the House; rather the Senate GOP plan reaffirms Republican plans in Congress to continue to target the health care of millions of hard-working Americans. I will continue to fight to protect seniors and families from these devastating proposals.”
06.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision to shift U.S. – Cuba policy: “I’m encouraged to see the President talk about the human rights of the Cuban people. However, it is only a first step; President Trump must back his words with actions. The Cuban people have suffered far too long under the iron fists of the Castro brothers who continue to deny basic freedoms to everyone on the island. I am disappointed to see that President Trump’s budget proposal would eliminate all funding to help Cubans who are fighting for democracy and human rights. These people risk their lives every day standing up to Raul Castro, suffering beatings, jail time, constant harassment, and even torture for defying this brutal dictatorship. I will continue working to protect the lives of oppressed people all over the world and urge the President to prioritize human rights as a guiding principle when crafting foreign policy towards strongmen everywhere, not just the Castro regime.”
06.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding June 17, 2017, the Democratic Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Caucus’s National Citizenship Day of Action: “Immigration is at the heart of our nation’s founding and our diversity should be celebrated. People come to the United States from all over the world to pursue a better life for themselves and their families. The decision to become a U.S. citizen is an important one and requires a demonstrated commitment to our country and our values. Across the nation, there are over 8 million individuals who are eligible for U.S. citizenship through naturalization but have not completed the process. The cost of naturalization continues to be the biggest obstacle for legal permanent residents who wish to apply for citizenship and many people are unaware that they could become citizens at a reduced cost by using available fee waivers. As I have personally experienced, the American Dream is worth striving for and I support a naturalization process that allows qualified legal permanent residents to have a stronger voice in our nation’s future. In honor of the National Citizenship Day of Action, I would like to congratulate all those who have chosen to call America home and thank them for the contributions they make to our society every day.” For resources and further assistance with the naturalization process please visit sires.house.gov or call (202)225-7919.
06.14.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on the shooting at a Congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, VA: "I offer my thoughts and prayers to the victims of this tragedy, including Rep. Scalise and the families of those affected. I commend the U.S. Capitol Police for their courage and dedication in the face of danger."
06.13.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- On June 8, 2017, Congressman Sires (D-NJ) introduced H.R. 2865, the Better Education and Skills Training (BEST) for America’s Workforce Act as a companion to Senator Bob Menendez’s Senate bill (S. 1193). This legislation would create a competitive, $1 billion tax-credit program to encourage job training partnerships between community colleges and local businesses that equip workers with skills that match communities’ needs. It would also provide local businesses that hire long-term unemployed workers up to $4,000 in tax credits for the tuition costs at a community college to train each worker hired to fill a job that requires a specific certificate or other training credential. “I am pleased to be working with Sen. Menendez on this important legislation to expand job-training partnerships and increase employment opportunities for American workers. The BEST for America’s Workforce Act builds on existing job-training programs to address our national skills gap” said Rep. Sires. “I often hear from employers throughout New Jersey who have jobs to fill but are struggling to hire workers with the right skillset,” said U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez. “Our BEST for America’s Workforce legislation encourages more businesses and colleges to create win-win partnerships that equip students and unemployed workers with in-demand skills and provide area employers with a strong talent pipeline.” This legislation uses a competitive application process to ensure that federal funding goes to training partnerships that are designed to equip workers with skills that meet the strongest market demand and the needs of local communities while leading to long-term job and income security for workers that complete the program.
06.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States’ commitment to the Paris Climate Accords: “In 2015, the world celebrated the outcome of the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) in Paris, France. The Paris Climate Agreement marked the first coordinated international effort to reduce global carbon emissions and mitigate the effects of climate change. The United States joined 194 countries in agreeing to lower its carbon emissions and to assist still-developing nations to transition away from burning fossil fuels. Today, President Trump has announced that the United States of America will cede its leadership role in this historic effort to address one of the most important challenges of our generation by withdrawing our commitments from the Paris Climate Accords. This short-sighted and selfish act not only damages our nation’s credibility abroad, but also endangers the future of our planet for the sake of scoring political points. By withdrawing from these commitments, we are telling the international community that the U.S. government is not serious about addressing climate change. I am disappointed by President Trump’s decision and hope that this administration and Congress can work together to curb our carbon emissions and protect future generations from the devastating effects of rising global temperatures.”
05.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement condemning the attack in Egypt that targeted Coptic Christians traveling to the Monastery of St. Samuel the Confessor: “Today’s deplorable attack on innocent men, women, and children is the epitome of cowardice and barbarity. No group should have to live in fear of violent attacks simply because of their beliefs. The Coptic Christian community in Egypt has faced continuous, targeted persecution despite their deep roots in Egyptian society. This attack, along with the bombings during Palm Sunday and New Year services, serve as a horrific reminder of the constant struggle against senseless violence around the world Last month, I met with President El-Sisi of Egypt to highlight my concerns regarding the increase in vigilante violence targeting Coptic Christians. I reiterated my long-held stance that it is essential that we work with our allies in Egypt to defeat extremism and stop these heinous attacks on innocent civilians. I offer my condolences to the families of the victims who perished in this attack and my thoughts are with those still recovering. It is my hope that the Egyptian government will conduct a swift and thorough investigation to bring those responsible to justice.”
05.23.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement on President Trump’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 budget proposal: “Today, President Trump made his priorities clear- tax breaks for the wealthy while gutting critical programs for American families. The President’s budget proposal would slash approximately $3.6 trillion over the next 10 years, including drastic cuts to critical job-creating programs and affordable education initiatives, as well as devastating reductions to Medicaid. Trump’s budget would make college more expensive for middle class families by slashing student loan, financial aid and repayment programs. It would also hit hard working Americans with a $40 billion reduction for the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit, which millions of families depend on to assist in paying bills and putting food on the table. In addition, it would destroy investments in jobs by eliminating the TIGER grant program, which helps to fund critical job-creating infrastructure projects. The proposal would also build on the cuts in the disastrous Republican health care bill by cutting more than $800 billion in Medicaid, resulting in nearly 10 million Americans losing benefits. The President’s budget would further target seniors and families in need with cuts to Social Security Disability Insurance benefits, SNAP (food stamps), and Meals on Wheels. It is obvious from this proposal that President Trump will continue to pursue an agenda that undermines the future of children and working families.”
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks in Manchester, England. “Yesterday’s attack at Manchester Arena was a cowardly act targeting families and young children. These attacks are unfortunately another example of how militant extremists’ only goal is to instill fear amongst the people for their own twisted satisfaction. I extend my deepest condolences to the victims and their loved ones as they begin the difficult process of healing and assure our friends and allies in the United Kingdom that we are committed to working with them to bring the perpetrators of this crime to justice.”
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein’s appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller III as a special prosecutor to investigate collusion between Russia and President Trump and his campaign officials: “I am encouraged that the Department of Justice is finally acting on what many Democrats in Congress have been requesting for months, a special prosecutor to investigate ties between President Trump’s campaign and Russian officials. I hope Former Director Mueller will be given the resources and independence needed to conduct a full and thorough investigation to reassure the American people that the state of our democracy is strong and our institutions are still working to uphold our most fundamental ideals of rule of law and due process. However, this prosecutor does not negate the need for an independent commission that is completely outside the scope of the Trump Administration. Nor does it replace the need for vigorous oversight and investigations by Congress. It is imperative that officials in Washington work to unearth the full picture of what happened during the 2016 election, to what extent the Russians were involved, what role the Trump Administration played, and any potential efforts to obstruct justice and hide the truth from the American people.”
05.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding reports that President Trump revealed highly sensitive classified information to Russian officials: “It is clear that President Trump doesn’t understand or respect the longstanding norms of our institutions. The main reason our government deems information classified is to protect the sources and methods our intelligence community and our allies use to combat threats against our homeland. Exposing this information puts American lives at risk and is unacceptable. In addition, I continue to believe it is critical that a special prosecutor and independent commission investigate President Trump’s ties to Russia, his conflicts of interest, and the growing unanswered questions surrounding his already troubled presidency.”
05.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding reports that President Trump asked former FBI Director James Comey to shut down investigations against former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn: “If proven to be true, reports that President Trump tried to influence an independent investigation by asking former FBI Director James Comey to shut it down, rises to the level of obstruction of justice, which could be an impeachable offense. For years FBI investigations have been conducted without influence or interference from the White House, particularly if members of the Administration are the subjects of these investigations. General Flynn resigned his post under intense scrutiny and suspicion surrounding his connections with Russian officials and the FBI was doing its job by trying to get to the bottom of it. These reports raise serious questions about President Trump’s ability to understand and uphold the duties of his office. With every passing day, it becomes clearer that this country needs a special prosecutor and independent commission to investigate the Trump Administration’s ties to nefarious actors, conflicts of interest, and now, reports of the President himself obstructing justice."
05.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey: “The sudden firing of FBI Director James Comey is troubling, especially amidst a federal investigation into President Trump’s campaign for its ties to Russia. In the 110 days since taking office, the President has fired his Acting Attorney General, National Security Advisor, and FBI Director all under suspicious circumstances that lack proper transparency. It is clearer than ever that the American people deserve to have a special prosecutor and independent commission investigate President Trump’s ties to Russia, his conflicts of interest, and the slew of unanswered questions surrounding his already troubled presidency.”
05.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding House Republicans’ vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Once again, House Republicans’ have introduced misguided and unpopular legislation that would repeal the Affordable Care Act and leave middle class and low-income families without access to affordable health care. This plan strips away the most popular protections under the Affordable Care Act, defunds Planned Parenthood, destroys Medicaid, and harms those who need coverage the most. This legislation would leave those in need of health care without access to affordable coverage by allowing states to charge higher premiums for pre-existing conditions; opt of out providing coverage for essential health benefits like maternity care, hospital visits, and mental health services; and potentially charge seniors significantly higher premiums. House Republicans have pushed this misguided plan through without an updated Congressional Budget Office score which, once again, appears to be a deliberate attempt to hide the costs of the repeal. I voted against this misguided legislation because I am staunchly opposed to irresponsible efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and I will continue to fight for access to quality, affordable health care coverage for the American people.”
05.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted to adopt the fiscal year (FY) 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government through the end of FY 2017 and passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 309 - 118. “This funding measure eliminates the risk of another destabilizing government shutdown and ensures that American families will continue to have access to critical federal services,” stated Congressman Sires. The bill includes $34.1 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), an increase of $2 billion, which will be used to support breakthrough research programs to improve our understanding and treatment methods of various diseases. It also allocates $22.5 billion for the Federal Pell Grant program which is a critical resource for low-income students who otherwise might not be able to pursue higher education due to financial constraints. In addition, it funds Community Development Block Grants at $3 billion and increases funding for homeless assistance grants to $2.4 billion. “While I voted for the omnibus because it includes funding for important programs, Congress cannot continue governing through short term funding measures that threaten key programs the American people rely on,” said Congressman Sires. “It is my hope that my colleagues and I will continue to work together to pass responsible legislation that invests in our economy, provides stability, and protects the needs of the American people.”
05.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires participated in a House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure hearing that examined U.S. airline customer service policies in light of recent incidents on major U.S. air carriers. After last month’s highly publicized incident on United Airlines in which a passenger was forcibly removed from the aircraft, the Committee called for a hearing to examine how major U.S. airlines handle customer service issues. At the hearing, Rep. Sires questioned top executives from four major airlines and a consumer advocate on how pressing issues in the industry impact customers. “I am deeply concerned by recent trends in the U.S. airline industry with regards to customer service. Passengers are losing trust in U.S. airlines as they encounter higher fares, unreliable scheduling, and unacceptable customer treatment. In the past month alone, there have been numerous incidents that raise important questions about staff training and policies related to customer service at the major air carriers. As the industry continues to evolve, it is essential that passenger rights are given a higher priority.” “I am grateful to Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio for holding this hearing and I will continue to work with my colleagues in order to ensure that U.S. airlines are actively reforming their customer service practices” stated Rep. Sires.
05.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, H.R. 1679, the FEMA Accountability, Modernization and Transparency Act of 2017, cosponsored by Congressman Sires, unanimously passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Garret Graves (R-LA) and Rep. Albio Sires introduced H.R. 1679 to ensure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) efforts to modernize its grants management system are accessible and transparent. “In the disastrous aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, I witnessed the struggles that my constituents faced when applying for disaster aid due to complex application processes. H.R. 1679 would help to streamline the system, and therefore speed up disaster recovery, by allowing agencies to share information with state and local governments. It would also ensure that individuals will not have to file multiple applications for different FEMA grants.” “I am grateful to Chairman Graves for introducing H.R. 1679 and for the strong support we received from our colleagues in the House of Representatives. I look forward to continuing our efforts to improve our disaster response system so we can better provide for those who are suffering in the aftermath of natural disasters” said Rep. Sires
04.26.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement on the House Republicans’ new amendment to the GOP plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act: “Last month, after major public backlash, the Republicans failed to bring their plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act to a vote. Now, in an effort to garner more Republican support, a new amendment has been offered to the previous bill that would somehow be even more harmful to Americans than the original proposal. The new plan would mean even higher costs on American families, even fewer people covered, and would strip key protections, including for people with pre-existing conditions. This is a terrible deal for the American people as it would strip away the most popular protections under the Affordable Care Act. Under the Republican plan, states would be allowed to: charge higher premiums for pre-existing conditions; opt of out providing coverage for essential health benefits like maternity care, hospital visits, and mental health services; and potentially charge seniors significantly higher premiums. This plan does not follow suit with the promises President Trump made to the American people, and I urge my colleagues to reject this cruel and costly proposal.”
04.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the bombings that occurred during Palm Sunday services at two Coptic Christian Churches in Egypt: “I condemn these bombings which ripped through two churches in the middle of Palm Sunday services in Egypt over the weekend. Attacking innocent families as they come together on a holy day is the height of cowardice and barbarity. It is unfortunately another reminder of the work that needs to be done to combat terrorists bent on targeting people based on their belief systems. Coptic Christians have always been a strong part of the diaspora community in New Jersey and Jersey City is the proud home of the first Coptic Church in America. Just last week I met with President El-Sisi of Egypt and we spoke about the importance of protecting the Coptic community. As I said then, I will reiterate that it is imperative we work with our allies in Egypt to make sure the perpetrators of these violent acts do not go unpunished. The Egyptian government must continue its efforts to protect religious minorities in their homeland. I offer my condolences to the families and the victims of these horrific attacks and call on the leaders in the region to renew their commitment to defeating extremism wherever it finds a home.”
04.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) made the following statement in response to U.S. missile strikes in Syria. “Assad continues to target innocent women and children with barrel bombs and chemical weapons. With support from Russia and Iran, Assad has already slaughtered nearly 400,000 people. If the President plans to continue using military force in Syria he must consult with Congress, make his case in front of the American people, and present a coherent long term strategy for further action. Assad is a brutal dictator and the international community must ban together to confront his aggression and care for the millions of refugees and displaced persons and help them heal from the wounds of war.”
04.06.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement after House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes announced that he will step aside from the panel’s investigation into Russia: “I have been deeply troubled by Chairman Nunes’ actions throughout the House Intelligence Committee’s investigation into Russia. Partisan posturing within our Intelligence Committee is not only a detriment to Congress as an institution; it is dangerous for our security. Though I welcome the Chairman’s decision to step down, I continue to support the formation of an independent commission to complete the committee’s work in investigating this important matter.”
04.06.2017	(Washington, DC) –Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, made the following statement after re-introducing the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA Act) of 2017, H.R. 1918. On September 21, 2016, the U.S. House of Representative approved a similar version of the legislation by unanimous consent. The NICA Act aims to put conditions on Nicaragua similar to what Congress has already enacted into law regarding Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador. On December 18, 2015, Congress enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 (P.L. 114-113), providing funds to implement the Central America strategy. The act placed numerous conditions on aid for Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador including certification that the governments were taking effective steps to address 16 conditions, including combating corruption, protecting human rights, combat human smuggling and trafficking, and improving border security. Statement by Sires: “Daniel Ortega and his family continue to amass a great amount of wealth while Nicaragua remains the second poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. He has spent years repressing the political opposition and has created a de facto monarchy by having his wife take on the role of Vice President. I will continue to fight for the Nicaraguan people until their voices are heard. This important legislation makes it clear that the U.S. will not standby and watch Ortega target human rights defenders and stifle democracy while lining his pockets with cash at the expense of the Nicaraguan people.” Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “We must continue to hold all governments within Central America to similar standards when it comes to human rights, corruption, and transparency as we examine where to best use U.S. taxpayer dollars and the Ortega regime in Nicaragua is no exception. This version of the NICA Act goes one step further than the previous version Albio and I introduced last Congress by calling for the Ortega regime to actively combat corruption and take significant steps to protect human rights defenders and activists. These are bipartisan concerns, and as many of us have witnessed for over a decade, Ortega’s power grab has brought Nicaragua into a continuous downward spiral. The time to take action is now – for the people of Nicaragua and for their democratic future – before it is too late. The NICA Act will be a powerful tool that can help end the atrocities occurring in Nicaragua and reverse its current destructive trajectory.” NOTE: Other original cosponsors of the legislation are: Reps. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ted Yoho (R-FL), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Ted Poe (R-TX), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Ron DeSantis (R-FL), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Randy Weber (R-TX), Dan Donovan (R-NY), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Thomas Rooney (R-FL), and Francis Rooney (R-FL).
04.05.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement after the White House announced that Steve Bannon has been removed from the National Security Council: “At no point was Steve Bannon qualified to be appointed to the National Security Council, nor was his appointment necessary. America cannot afford to have political operatives influence our Nation’s military decisions now or in the future. I was proud to join my Democratic colleagues in the House in cosponsoring legislation that would protect the NSC from political interference and will continue to push for its passage in Congress. While Mr. Bannon’s removal is a welcome move, it is clear that more must be done to increase the transparency of the oval office’s decision making.”
04.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, H.Res.54, a bipartisan resolution reaffirming the U.S.-Argentina partnership and recognizing Argentina’s economic reforms, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, unanimously passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Albio Sires and Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) introduced H.Res.54 after traveling to Argentina last Congress to recognize President Mauricio Macri’s efforts since his election in November 2015 to improve ties with the United States and restore the bilateral partnership previously enjoyed by both countries. “Argentina is an important partner in the Western Hemisphere for the United States and I am pleased that President Macri has sought to improve ties with the United States and restore the bilateral partnership our countries previously enjoyed. I am also encouraged by his commitment to stimulate growth and reassert Argentina’s leadership in the region after years of isolationist tendencies” stated Congressman Sires. In addition, the resolution cites Macri’s commitment to rebuild the economy, combat domestic corruption, defend human rights abroad, strengthen press freedoms, attract foreign direct investment, and return Argentina to the international credit markets. This resolution also urges the State Department to coordinate an interagency strategy to increase cooperation with Argentina on areas of bilateral, regional, and global concern. Finally, it encourages the Macri Administration to continue investigating the 1994 bombing of the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) in Buenos Aires, as well as the January 2015 death of AMIA special prosecutor Alberto Nisman, and prosecute those who were involved. Rep. Duncan said, “I applaud the passage of H.Res.54 and Ranking Member Sires’ leadership in working to ensure that the United States prioritizes an even stronger relationship with Argentina. President Macri’s pursuit of greater economic freedom, deeper security collaboration, and stronger energy ties are important for Argentina and the region at-large. I look forward to working with our Senate colleagues to pass legislation that bolsters our partnership with Argentina.” “I am proud to cosponsor this legislation with Rep. Jeff Duncan and grateful for the strong support we received in passing this resolution. I look forward to working with my colleagues as we continue to engage with our neighbors in the Hemisphere,” said Rep. Sires.
03.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, made the following statement in response to the Venezuelan Supreme Court’s decision to dissolve the Venezuelan National Assembly. “I strongly condemn the decision of the Venezuelan Supreme Court, which Maduro has stacked with people loyal only to him, to dissolve the Venezuelan National Assembly. This latest development is a blatant violation of the constitution and indicates that Venezuela is no longer a democracy but a dictatorship. Under Maduro, Venezuela has suffered from a rise in corruption, economic collapse, restrictions of human rights, and a complete degradation of democracy. It is clear that Cuba is no longer the only country in the region being oppressed by an authoritarian desperate to remain in power with no consideration for rule of law. Maduro has oppressed the innocent people of Venezuela and allowed crime and corruption to flourish, undermining the stability of the entire region. The United States, and our neighbors in the region, must continue to condemn Maduro’s regime and work to restore democratic principles and stability to Venezuela.”
03.30.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement on Senate passage of H.J. Res. 43 to reduce access to Title X (family planning) services: “Last month the House jeopardized the health care of millions of women by voting to repeal a regulation that ensures that patients can access family planning and preventive services through any Title X- qualified provider. Now the Senate, with a last minute assist from Vice President Pence, has passed the same resolution to shamelessly restrict women’s access to health care. The rule in question was originally created by President Obama because several states began restricting certain providers, like Planned Parenthood, from the Title X program for reasons other than their ability to provide care. Title X is a critical program that assists health centers across the nation in providing a broad range of family planning and preventive health services, including breast and cervical cancer screenings. Republicans and the Administration have expressed their support for increased access to health care yet, they continue on their ideological crusade to ensure that the women who need it the most are denied the necessary health care.”
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, H.Res.54, a bipartisan resolution reaffirming the U.S.-Argentina partnership and recognizing Argentina’s economic reforms, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Congressman Jeff Duncan (R-SC), was unanimously passed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Argentina is Latin America’s third largest economy and President Macri’s commitment to stimulate growth and reassert Argentina’s leadership internationally after years of isolationist views and to strengthen its partnership with the U.S. is a positive step for hemispheric relations. President Macri’s decision to resolve the 15-year standoff with private creditors stemming from the 2001-02 economic crisis is also an excellent example of the President’s commitment to improve his country’s ties with the international community” said Rep. Sires. H.Res.54 recognizes President Mauricio Macri’s efforts since his election in November 2015 to improve ties with the United States and restore the bilateral partnership previously enjoyed by both countries. In addition, it cites Macri’s commitment to rebuild the economy, combat domestic corruption, defend human rights abroad, strengthen press freedoms, attract foreign direct investment, and return Argentina to the international credit markets. This resolution also urges the State Department to coordinate an interagency strategy to increase cooperation with Argentina on areas of bilateral, regional, and global concern. Finally, it encourages the Macri Administration to continue investigating the 1994 bombing of the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) in Buenos Aires, as well as the January 2015 death of AMIA special prosecutor Alberto Nisman, and prosecute those who were involved. Rep. Duncan stated, “The relationship with Argentina is very important to the United States, especially given the shared values between our nations. I commend the courageous actions of President Macri in seeking to fix the ruinous economic policies of the previous government, re-establish ties with freedom-loving countries in the Americas, and reassert Argentina’s role as a regional leader. I am extremely optimistic about Argentina’s future, especially given its energy potential, and I applaud Ranking Member Sires’ efforts with this legislation to underscore the value the U.S. places on developing an even stronger partnership with Argentina.” In the last Congress, Ranking Member Sires and Chairman Duncan traveled to Argentina to deepen bilateral relations and discuss security and law enforcement cooperation. “I am proud to sponsor this resolution and grateful to Chairman Duncan for working with me on this bipartisan piece of legislation that highlights the importance of the U.S.-Argentina partnership in United States foreign policy. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring H.Res.54 for a vote on the House Floor,” said Rep. Sires. H.Res.54 was approved unanimously by the House Foreign Affairs Committee and now awaits further action in the Full House of Representatives. To read H.Res. 54, please click here.
03.29.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement on the Russian crackdown of protestors over the past weekend: “This past weekend’s protests across Russia that resulted in the violent crackdown by Putin’s thugs serve as a reminder that Russian citizens are truly not free. Over a thousand Russians, many of them young people, were violently corralled into prisons on Sunday after expressing their frustration with the corrupt regime. Basic human rights include the freedom of expression and assembly. It is clear that Putin and his cronies will stamp out dissent at any cost. I strongly condemn these actions by the Russian government and urge the Trump Administration to ensure our global partners that America will not tolerate a blatant disregard for human rights. When Secretary Tillerson visits Moscow next month, he should make it clear that America will not align ourselves with a country that has no regard for the rule of law.”
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure approved Representative Albio Sires’ (D-NJ) legislation to require that when the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) begins a comprehensive safety assessment on a commuter or intercity passenger rail system, the FRA must notify the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, and Members of Congress representing the state in which the assessment is conducted. The FRA will have 10 business days from the beginning of the safety assessment to notify Members of Congress and 90 days following the completion of the assessment to provide Members with findings and recommendations. “This legislation will bring much needed transparency to the federal oversight of commuter and intercity passenger rail,” said Representative Sires. “Lawmakers tasked with the oversight of railroads should know when a railroad is unsafe.” In the wake of the New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) train accident in Hoboken, New Jersey that left a young mother dead and injured 110 passengers and crewmembers, FRA revealed that it had been conducting a comprehensive safety assessment on NJ Transit for months. NJ Transit had violated more safety regulations and paid more in fines for violations than any other commuter railroad in the country over the previous five years. “I am pleased that this legislation, which passed the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in a bipartisan fashion, will address the serious concerns I had following the Hoboken accident,” said Congressman Sires. “It is my hope that commuter and intercity passenger rail agencies, Members of Congress, and the FRA can work together to make these systems safer.”
03.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive actions intended to rollback climate policies: “President Trump’s executive order unravels years of work aimed at reducing the negative impacts of climate change in order to provide a better environment for future generations. The President has directed the Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw from the Clean Power Plan in order to restore thousands of jobs lost in the coal industry. Unfortunately, President Trump’s claims that his actions will reinvigorate hiring in the coal industry are misguided, as economists have proven that cheap natural gas and automation are causing the coal industry’s demise- not federal regulations. The directive to get rid of the social cost of carbon, a tool used to balance environmental and economic costs and benefits when devising federal rulemakings, is concerning. Also problematic is the order to eliminate the requirement that federal agencies consider climate change when issuing environmental permits. Rather than setting an example for businesses, states, and other countries to emulate, this executive order will signal that United States government does not consider the health of our environment and future generations when conducting federal action.”
03.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement after House Republicans failure to bring their Obamacare repeal bill to a vote: “The overwhelming majority of Americans oppose the bill proposed by President Trump and House Republicans. Back in January, then President-elect Trump stated that his goal was to have ‘insurance for everybody.’ Rather than making sensible changes to our current health system, President Trump attempted to ram through a proposal that would work towards the opposite of his goal. “The American Health Care Act would be disastrous for New Jerseyeans. It would raise premiums for those who struggle to make ends meet, strip coverage from 24 million Americans, gut key protections like prescription drug coverage, and shorten the life of the Medicare Trust Fund. The President continues to believe this is a great bill. Nothing about the Republicans’ plan would be ‘great’ for average Americans, which begs the question: who is this bill great for? “I remain staunchly opposed to repeal and replace measures and will continue to advocate for responsible legislation that will improve the Affordable Care Act where necessary and protect health coverage for those who need it most.”
03.23.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement calling for an independent investigation into foreign meddling in the election: “Americans deserve to know the truth about what happened during the Presidential election. Unfortunately, events over the past few weeks have started to chip away at the credibility of the Intelligence Committee’s investigation. The recent flood of conflicting reports, coupled with inflammatory statements from the President and recent actions undermining the full committee’s ability to work in a bipartisan manner further the argument for an independent panel to take the reins of the investigation. Interference in our elections should never dissolve into partisan politics; I will continue to advocate for an independent commission, similar to the 9/11 Commission, in order to move forward with this investigation.”
03.21.2017	(Washington, D.C.)—Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Global Health Innovation Act, to encourage the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. This bill will require the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to submit a report on the development and use of global health innovations at the Agency. “I am happy to announce the reintroduction of this legislation with bipartisan support from my good friend from Florida, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart. Each year, millions of people in the developing world die of infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. Sadly, many of these deaths are preventable and I believe we must do what we can to save these lives. Investing in global health isn’t just the right thing to do but a winning strategy for US businesses. 89 cents of every dollar the U.S. government invests in global health research and development benefits U.S. based researchers and between 2007 and 2015 these investments created 200,000 new jobs and created $33 billion in economic growth.” said Congressman Sires. Through USAID, the federal government is addressing the need for global health technologies by facilitating public-private partnerships to develop affordable and appropriate health technologies. The critical research and development of global health technologies has facilitated the development of life-saving technologies saving countless lives across the globe. The Global Health Innovation Act supports a long-term program to develop these much needed health technologies and innovative and easy to use health solutions for low resource environments Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart stated, “I am proud to reintroduce this critical piece of legislation with my friend, Rep. Albio Sires. It is more important than ever that the United States invest in global health and continue to deliver state-of-the-art medical devices and technologies. The Global Health Innovation Act will allow Congress to continue to oversee the effectiveness and development of these life-saving products and ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely.” The Global Health Innovation Act passed the House of Representatives in the 114th Congress but did not come up for a vote in the Senate.
03.16.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s proposed FY 2018 budget: “President Trump’s ‘America First’ budget is an affront to the middle class and working Americans and begs the question: which Americans does this budget prioritize? The truth is that President Trump’s budget forces low-income and middle class Americans to pay for his unnecessary wall across the Southern Border. It strips communities of powerful tools to prioritize investments and leaves local priorities to the wayside. Communities across the country, like those in the Eighth Congressional District, will bear the burden of President Trump’s misguided budget. Our seniors, teachers, and working poor will have less support during times they need it most. Cities and towns will have fewer opportunities to fund infrastructure projects and our first responders will lose critical resources to protect our residents from natural disasters and terrorist attacks. It is clear that the President’s budget puts Trump’s America first while forcing everyday Americans to foot the bill. I will work with my colleagues in Congress to defend the federal programs that are critical to New Jersey and ensure that the President’s draconian budget proposal does not become law.” Follow Congressman Sires on Twitter (@RepSires) and Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/RepAlbioSires) for further information on the President’s budget cuts.
03.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Justice Department indicting two Russian spies and two criminal hackers in connection with the 2014 hacking Yahoo user accounts: “Today’s action by the Justice Department clarifies something that we already know: the Kremlin has been making concerted efforts to attack American institutions by using intelligence agents and unaffiliated hackers. Day after day, evidence continues to show that the Russian government is targeting our businesses, political institutions, and personal privacy to try to disrupt our economy and political system. The indictments announced today further the case for an independent investigation of Russian involvement during our elections.”
03.13.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires released the following statement on the analysis of the Republican healthcare bill issued by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO): “Today, the CBO confirmed that the GOP plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act is a disaster for the American people. As anticipated, the CBO reports that the Republican plan will result in reduced coverage for millions of American families. Specifically, the CBO estimates that 14 million people will lose their health insurance by 2018 and 24 million people by 2026 under the Republican proposal. In addition, the CBO reports that in 2018-2019 single policyholders in the nongroup market would see their average premiums be 15 percent to 20 percent higher than under current law. Republicans are now attempting to discredit the nonpartisan CBO, but the truth is Congress has always relied on CBO for nonbiased analysis on the impact of specific legislative proposals. Republican leadership must get serious about the repercussions of taking away healthcare from millions of Americans because this is in fact a life or death decision for many individuals across the nation.”
03.09.2017	(Washington, D.C) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on Russia’s continued efforts to undermine democracy in the United States, Europe, and around the world: “Today the Foreign Affairs Committee held a hearing on Russia’s continued aggression towards our European allies and its efforts to undermine democracies all over the world. I spoke about how Russian interference in the U.S. and other elections should not be a partisan issue. Unfortunately, I am all too familiar with the depths a communist regime will go to in order to manipulate the public and repress those who seek to expose its injustices. Growing up in Cuba I witnessed the indoctrination efforts, and saw firsthand the lengths authoritarian regimes go to to exert influence. All of our panelists expressed zero doubt that the Russians interfered in our election. Now, I call on my colleagues to insist upon an independent investigation and special prosecutor to fully uncover the extent to Russia’s nefarious actions and to help gird our democracy against future intrusions. I hope this hearing was just the first in a series of robust actions taken by the House Foreign Affairs Committee to keep its promise to the American people, to leave politics at the water’s edge, and punish foreign powers who work to do us harm.”
03.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding House Republicans’ plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “House Republicans’ plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act is grossly misguided and inadequate. Republican leaders claim that their overhaul will drive down healthcare costs; however, it is clear that their plan prioritizes the wealthiest Americans while leaving middle class and low-income families to foot the bill. This plan would also defund Planned Parenthood, which provides essential preventative care for women across the country. Furthermore, House Republicans released this overhaul without any Congressional Budget Office score in what can be perceived as a deliberate attempt to bury the true costs of the repeal. I am also deeply concerned with how this plan will impact the expansion of Medicaid in states like New Jersey. The Republican overhaul would destroy Medicaid as we know it, potentially hurting tens of millions of Americans who rely on the program. Americans deserve transparency during this process and the hardworking men and women throughout the country have earned their right to affordable healthcare coverage.”
03.06.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive actions targeting refugees and travel from Muslim-majority countries: “Making small tweaks and smoothing out the rough edges of President Trump’s initial executive order doesn’t change the fact that it is still a ban. White House officials such as Stephen Miller are already insisting that these are just ‘minor, technical differences. Fundamentally, you are still going to have the same, basic policy…” As I have said before, I am disappointed that President Trump continues to prioritize dividing Americans and alienating our allies. Even after our judges, national security experts, and human rights groups have condemned the ban, said it can make Americans less safe, and warned of its unconstitutionality, Trump insists on finding a way to keep people out of this country based on where they were born. Instead of focusing on economic opportunities and good paying jobs for hardworking Americans, President Trump insists on spending his time banning people who are desperately trying to escape enslavement, torture, and oppression. The United States of America has strict standards in place to ensure that individuals coming to America aren’t a threat. These processes can include up two years of vetting. Rather than working with Congress and our allies to fortify current mechanisms, the President still plans on shutting our doors and turning our backs on people seeking security and a better future. America was built on the backs of hardworking immigrants who came from all walks of life. Muslims immigrants have contributed proudly to this country for decades, including the several thousand who serve in our Armed Forces. Banning entry to the United States simply because of an individual’s birthplace or religion is an affront to everything our founding fathers fought for.”
03.06.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s unsubstantiated claim that President Obama ordered the tapping of then-candidate Trump’s phones: “In his address to Congress last week, President Trump spoke about the importance of truth, liberty, and justice as part of America’s identity. While speaking about truth is important, emphasizing it through action should take precedent. The President’s claim this weekend of wiretapping can have serious consequences and ramifications; but the failure of the President to provide any shred of evidence to back up this claim is deeply alarming. “Furthermore, reports of FBI Director Comey’s request that the Justice Department reject the President’s claim and the assertion of the former Director of National Intelligence that no wiretap activity against Trump took place makes the President’s tweet even more troubling. The President’s continued use of social media to promote baseless claims is not only reckless; it is juvenile and only serves to damage our Nation’s credibility. America needs a President who is truthful through both his words and his actions.”
03.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – On the 56th Birthday of the Peace Corps this week, Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ) and David Young (R-IA) introduced H.R. 1295, the Respect for Peace Corps Volunteers Act. This bill would afford former volunteers and staff of the Peace Corps the dignity of using the name and logo of the Peace Corps in an obituary or on their gravestone. “Over 5,000 New Jerseyans have proudly served in the Peace Corps since its founding in 1961,” said Congressman Sires. “The current restrictions on the use of the Peace Corps’ logo create an unnecessary burden when it comes time to honor the deeds of these dedicated men and women. Their global service brings honor to our Nation and they have earned their right to proudly display their insignia.” "This is a fitting way to allow families and friends to pay their respect to those who have given their time to make the world a better place by serving in the U.S. Peace Corps,” said Congressman Young. This bipartisan measure is a simple, commonsense fix to remove unnecessary restrictions on the use of the logo of the Peace Corps. Under current law, unauthorized use of the Peace Corps logo, even for memorial purposes, carries the risk of a $500 fine or jail time. H.R. 1295 repeals the unnecessary barriers to allow former Peace Corps volunteers and staff the ability to display their service for memorial purposes.
03.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – This week, Congressman Sires joined over 160 members of Congress calling on the Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee to request the access to President Trump’s tax returns. Additionally, Congressman Sires became an original cosponsor of the Strengthening Investigations into Foreign Entanglements Act. “The President’s refusal to release his tax returns should be a wakeup call to all Americans,” said Congressman Sires. “We cannot afford to keep the American people in the dark about potential conflicts of interest within the White House; it is time to shine a light on the President’s personal financial interests.” In the letter, Congressman Sires expresses his disapproval of President Trump breaking with 40 years of precedent by failing to make his tax returns public. The letter cites the authority of the Chairmen of the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Senate Finance Committee, and the House Committee on Ways and Means to request copies of President Trump’s tax returns under Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code. Text of the full letter can be found here. Congressman Sires also joined Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) this week in introducing H.R. 1356, the Strengthening Investigations into Foreign Entanglements Act. H.R. 1356 would give congressional intelligence committees the authority needed to acquire tax returns, including those of President Trump and of future presidential candidates.
03.03.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Reps. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, made the following statements ahead of their upcoming trip to Honduras and Guatemala. Ros-Lehtinen and Sires are scheduled to meet with the Guatemalan and Honduran Heads of State, as well as other high-ranking government officials, civil society members, and U.S. embassy personnel to discuss bilateral relations and regional cooperation. The delegation will also assess the state of combatting corruption and counter narcotics efforts in those nations and ways to bolster security coordination. Statement by Ranking Member Sires: “As Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee I have long advocated for U.S. engagement with our neighbors in Latin America. I’m grateful for the opportunity to travel down to the region with my good friend from Florida, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. These countries are the closest to our shores and are largely pro-U.S. and want to strengthen ties with the United States. Unfortunately, some of the countries have been caught in the crosshairs of powerful drug traffickers and gangs that ruthlessly exert control over people through extortion, harassment, violence, and even murder. That is why in 2014 we saw tens of thousands of children from the Northern Triangle running away from their homes and trying to find safety elsewhere. These children want nothing but to live in a home free from fear of being attacked, kidnapped, and assaulted. I firmly believe the best way to help these children is to address their root causes for fleeing and help make the Northern Triangle safer. I am eager to see what efforts are being undertaken to make communities safer, strengthen the rule of law, defend human rights, and create opportunities for the next generation of young people.” Statement by Chairman Ros-Lehtinen: “While both Honduras and Guatemala have made much needed improvements in their efforts to combat corruption, prioritize human rights, and respect the rule of law, more work needs to be done. Albio and I have worked together closely in a bipartisan manner on these important issues and we plan on having honest and open discussions on the need for strengthening security cooperation and coordination and transparency in government to further disrupt narco trafficking networks. These are important national security issues for Honduras and Guatemala, for the region, and for the United States, and it is in all of our interests to work together to enhance our efforts to ensure a safe, stable and secure Central America.”
03.02.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “With the revelation that the Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, lied under oath about his communications with Russian officials during the Trump campaign, he should immediately resign from office. The Attorney General is charged with upholding the law and should lead by example. He should not be above reproach and needs to be treated the same as any other citizen who is testifying under oath. In addition, I strongly agree with calls to appoint an independent, special prosecutor to investigate the Trump Administration’s ties to Russia. I’ve continued to share my concerns about the conflicts of interest surrounding several of President Trump’s cabinet picks. Specifically, the financial conflicts of interest and ties to Russia have been very troubling. That is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 371, the Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017. This legislation would require the President and Vice President to disclose and divest any potential financial conflicts of interest. It would also require presidential appointees to recuse themselves from matters that come before their agencies involving the President’s conflicts of interest.”
02.28.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress: “Rather than using his first address to Congress to bridge divides, President Trump used tonight’s speech to dig them deeper and wider. During a time in our Nation’s history when Americans need assurance from our leaders, the President doubled down on divisive and toxic rhetoric that instills shock and fear in our country’s diverse and vulnerable communities. While the President talked about creating jobs, rebuilding our infrastructure, and fixing our healthcare system, his talking points continue to lack substance and specificity. We cannot afford to neglect the programs that provide affordable healthcare, education for our future leaders, and protection for our immigrant communities. “The President should be focusing his energy to increase the transparency of his own office rather than lambasting the rest of Washington. The American people deserve to know if conflicts of interest exist and whether they are from former business dealings or interference from Russia. The failure of any President in the modern era to release their tax returns should be a wake up call to all Americans. “As the Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, I continue to be concerned for the future of our Nation’s diplomatic efforts. Piecemeal approaches will not tackle the most pressing challenges across the globe. The rhetoric being used by the President and his Administration regarding our allies and his proposal to slash foreign aid is not only reckless, but is harmful to American interests. It is time for President Trump to realize how much our relationships around the globe have enhanced our own security and prosperity; alienating our partners makes Americans less safe.”
02.17.2017	Over the last month there have been peaceful protest demonstrations around the nation and I have received numerous messages from constituents expressing concern and outrage over actions carried out in the first four weeks of the Trump Administration. I share these concerns and am strongly opposed to recent decisions that put our national security at risk and are fundamentally opposed to the core values we hold as Americans. Here is an update on the recent actions I have taken. Interference from Russia Steve Bannon Conflicts of Interest Executive Orders Healthcare Interference from Russia In October 2016, the U.S. Intelligence Community and the Department of Homeland Security announced with high confidence that Vladimir Putin and his senior officials in the Russian government directed the hacking of U.S. political organizations and leaked documents. On December 9, 2016, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) concluded that, after reviewing Russia’s actions, Russia interfered in the U.S. elections for the purpose of altering the outcome. Putin’s efforts to interfere with our election and influence American voters is incredibly alarming. Regardless of the overall effect of this attempted interference, these actions deserve immediate and intense scrutiny in order to protect our independence and preserve the integrity of our democracy. As a result, I have cosponsored H.R. 530, the Safeguard our Elections and Combat Unlawful Interference in (SECURE) Our Democracy Act, and H.R. 356, the Protecting our Democracy Act. H.R. 530 would sanction any foreign entity or individual that has unlawfully interfered in a federal election. It would also bar entry to the United States and freeze U.S.-based assets of any such individuals. H.R. 356 would create a bipartisan, 12-member, independent National Commission on Foreign Interference in the 2016 Election which would have the power to examine attempts by the Russian government to influence, interfere with, or sow distrust in the 2016 election. The commission would have the ability to interview witnesses, issue subpoenas, and receive testimony and documents related to computer hacking activities, scanning of electoral systems, and efforts to produce, disseminate, or promote fake news involving the U.S. election. Recent reports of discussions between Russian officials and members of President Trump’s transition team, particularly former National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn, are also deeply troubling. General Flynn reportedly had numerous calls with Russian Ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, prior to President Trump’s inauguration and was not completely forthcoming about the contents of the calls or if they discussed lifting sanctions on Russia while General Flynn was still a private citizen. Reports that the phone calls included discussions about lifting sanctions on Russia have been confirmed by multiple sources. This raises concerns that General Flynn violated what is commonly referred to as The Logan Act, a U.S. federal law which prohibits private citizens from interfering with diplomatic relations between the United States and foreign governments. While General Flynn resigned from his position as National Security Advisor on February 13th, I believe that his actions must be scrutinized to determine their affect on American national security and intelligence operations. That is why I have asked the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), to demand that General Flynn appear before the Committee to give sworn testimony regarding the Trump Administration’s relationship with the Russian government. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I will continue to push for transparency and accountability for the American people. Steve Bannon Immediately following the election, President Trump appointed Steve Bannon to a top White House position. I found this disturbing, as Bannon has promoted anti-Semitic, xenophobic, and racist ideologies, and his appointment was praised by hate groups such as the KKK while it was criticized by the Anti-Defamation League, an organization committed to identifying and condemning Anti-Semitism. In November, I sent a letter urging President Trump to reconsider this appointment and instead hire a diverse White House staff that represents our core American values of diversity. Rather than rescind this appointment or make a notable effort to unite our nation by creating an inclusive administration, President Trump went on to give a statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day that did not include a single reference to Jewish people targeted during the Holocaust. The White House later defended the exclusion, which lends support to the rise of anti-Semitism and further emboldens those who deny that the Nazi regime sought to eliminate the Jewish people. In response, I have cosponsored H.Res.78 which reiterates the indisputable fact that the Nazi regime targeted the Jewish people in its Holocaust. This resolution would also call on every entity in the executive branch to affirm this and that any attempt to deny or minimize that fact is shameful. The President also removed the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs as permanent members of the National Security Council (NSC) while replacing them with Mr. Bannon. This decision is extremely alarming as it politicizes the National Security Council (NSC) which has always consisted of experts in national security issues and shunned the inclusion of any political influence when making the hard decisions involving our men and women in uniform. In a separate letter, I urged President Trump to restore the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence to their posts on the Principals Committee of the National Security Council. I have also expressed my concerns that Mr. Bannon’s appointment shows that critical decisions, that could put American lives at stake, will no longer be made based on the impact on national security but on potential political benefits. To reinforce the letter, I have cosponsored H.R. 804, the Protect the National Security Council from Political Interference Act of 2017. This legislation would bar the President from appointing aides to the NSC who primarily serve in a political role. H.R. 804 is currently under review before the House Committee on Armed Services, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the House Committee on Intelligence. Conflicts of Interest Many people have expressed concerns over potential conflicts of interest linked to the President’s vast business portfolio as well as his decision not to release his tax returns. I share these concerns, which is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 371, the Presidential Conflicts of Interest Act of 2017. This legislation would require the President and Vice President to disclose and divest any potential financial conflicts of interest. It would also require presidential appointees to recuse themselves from matters that come before their agencies involving the President’s conflicts of interest. Executive Orders On January 25, 2017, President Trump directed the Administration to build a wall between the United States and Mexico. I feel that building a wall would cost the taxpayers billions of dollars while doing nothing to reform our broken immigration system. This decision could also estrange our neighbors in the region and negatively affect security cooperation. The U.S.- Mexico border generates billions of dollars in business for states all across America and our security cooperation has allowed us to dismantle criminal networks and arrest drug traffickers and other violent criminals. The President also made an announcement regarding Sanctuary Cities which threatens to revoke critical law enforcement funding. Sanctuary cities exist to encourage residents to report crimes and cooperate with law enforcement officials without the fear that they will be detained. These actions are counterproductive and will only put more people at risk. In an effort to counteract these orders, I have cosponsored H.R. 748, the Safeguarding Sanctuary Cities Act. This legislation would ensure that federal funds are not withheld from any state or local authorities that do not fully comply with a voluntary immigration detainer request. Two days after these executive orders, President Trump suspended refugee resettlement and made changes in immigration policy for certain Muslim-majority countries. Specifically, the Administration halted all refugee admissions into the U.S. for at least 120 days and suspended visas into the United States for all individuals from Iran, Libya, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Yemen, and Iraq. These orders go against the foundational ideas of America and discriminate against Muslims who are desperately trying to escape enslavement, torture, and oppression. While the President’s immigration order has been temporarily stayed by the Federal Court of Appeals, the affect has already been felt by families around the world. In an attempt to permanently roll back these orders, I have cosponsored H.R. 724, the Statue of Liberty Values (SOLVE) Act of 2017. H.R. 724 would nullify President Trump’s executive order on all refugees and the travel ban on individuals from seven Muslim-majority countries. It is currently under review before the House Committee on the Judiciary, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, the House Committee on Homeland Security, and the House Committee on Intelligence. Healthcare Since the beginning of the 115th Congress, President Trump and Republicans in Congress have expressed the intent to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and defund Planned Parenthood. This would essentially revoke health care coverage for 20 million Americans who have gained coverage thanks to the ACA and would have a devastating impact on women’s health care. The ACA provides women with affordable access to much needed health care, including birth control and preventative services. Repealing the ACA would allow insurance companies to discriminate against women by charging higher premiums based on gender and denying them certain forms of care. Defunding Planned Parenthood would make preventative screenings, tests, and contraceptive services even more inaccessible, particularly in medically underserved areas. I think this is unacceptable and I urged President Trump to not pursue a harmful agenda for women and reconsider his support for efforts to repeal the ACA and defund Planned Parenthood. Furthermore, I have also sent a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan expressing concerns about efforts to undermine Title X family planning funds. This week, the House of Representatives voted on a resolution, H.J.Res.43, which would roll back a Title X rule designed to shield family planning clinics from partisan state-level defunding efforts. This resolution is another step in recent attacks on women’s health and presents a serious threat to those who rely on these clinics as their health care provider. Unfortunately, while I strongly oppose this resolution and voted against it, on February 16, 2017 it passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 230-188. Since its enactment, I have continuously voted against efforts to repeal or defund health care reform. While the ACA is not perfect, it is a step in the right direction for fixing our broken health care system that has consumed a chunk of our GDP, as well as left too many individuals out in the cold when they got sick. Please know that I share your concerns about recent events and I will continue to fight for the values that are fundamental to our democracy and advocate for policies that propel our country forward.
02.15.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ) introduced legislation that would allow Members of Congress, Senators, and their constituents to know when a railroad or rail transit agency is being investigated for safety violations by the Federal government. The legislation would require the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Administrator to notify Members of Congress and Senators if they conduct safety audits on railroads or rail transit agencies. Additionally, the legislation requires the Administrators to provide to Congress a report describing the results of the audit within 90 days of the audit’s completion. “I am pleased to introduce this legislation that will ensure that people know when the railroads they rely on are under investigation for safety reasons,” said Rep. Sires (NJ-08). “It is imperative that Members of Congress and Senators can inform their constituents when a railroad or rail transit agency is violating safety regulations.” In the wake of the New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) train crash in Hoboken, New Jersey, which killed a young mother and injured 110 passengers and crewmembers, it was made public that the FRA had been conducting a “deep audit” on NJ Transit. Prompted by an increase in safety violations, the audit was unknown to the public, many of whom ride the trains every day for their commutes. “We need to make sure that safety audits are transparent in order for Congress to provide effective oversight of rail transit agencies,” said Congressman Rep. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10). “I’m pleased to join Rep. Sires in introducing this legislation, and will continue to work with my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to improve the safety of this nation’s railroads.”
02.13.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the Department of Treasury’s announcement to sanction Vice President Tareck El Aissami and his associate Samark Jose Lopez Bello under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act: “These criminals have been trafficking drugs through Venezuela for years, making millions of dollars while the Venezuelan people suffer from food and medical shortages throughout the country. The Maduro regime continues to oppress the innocent Venezuelan people and prevent them from getting access to the basic necessities they require. The relentless crackdown on protests, shutdown of free media, and continued harassment and unlawful incarceration ofpolitical opposition members flies in the face of everything the U.S. stands for. Today’s announcement only further confirms reports that Maduro’s cronies are getting rich while the Venezuelan people continue to fight for their freedoms.”
02.08.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to replace the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs with Steve Bannon, White House Chief Strategist, on the National Security Council: “President Trump’s decision to add Steve Bannon as a principal member of the National Security Council (NSC) while removing the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, both of whom have played critical roles throughout multiple Administrations, is very troubling. The NSC has never been a political platform; rather, it has always consisted of individuals with the utmost expertise in national security issues. I have joined my colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump expressing our deep concern about the changes he has made to the National Security Council. I have also signed onto H.R. 804, introduced by Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), legislation barring the president from appointing aides who primarily serve a political role as a principal member of the NSC. The NSC provides presidents with their daily briefings, and represents the highest levels of our military and intelligence communities. It is their analysis and expertise that guide the critical decisions about how, when, and where U.S. military capabilities are deployed. By removing principal members from leadership roles and giving Steve Bannon unfettered access to these meetings, President Trump is sending a message to our allies and our foes that these critical decisions are no longer being made by the facts on the ground but being weighed against scoring political points. Decisions regarding the deployment and safety of our soldiers should only be decided on merit and fact. As I have stated in the past, in addition to this alarming change to our security apparatus, I am also concerned about Steve Bannon’s past comments regarding minorities and people of all faiths. Having him on the NSC gives him a megaphone from where he can project his hateful ideologies and continue his efforts to divide our country.”
02.07.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Ted Yoho (R-FL) introduced legislation that would spur small business growth, bring millions of dollars into the U.S. economy, and allow Canadian citizens to continue to conveniently and safely travel between our shared borders. The Promoting Tourism to Enhance our Economy Act will allow Canadian citizens who are at least 55 years old and own a secondary residence in the United States to visit the country for 240 days (8 months); current law only allows for 180 days (6 months). Canadian citizens admitted into the U.S. under these provisions are classified as nonresident aliens and would be ineligible for public assistance programs. As such, this legislation is a responsible way to bring additional jobs and revenue into the United States. “Increased tourism from Canada will spur job growth in towns across the United States,” said Congressman Sires. “Allowing our neighbors to spend more time to enjoy what our country has to offer will help small businesses and expand the economy.” “Tourism is a vital industry in Florida, and many Canadian citizens have vacation properties or rentals in our state,” said Congressman Yoho. “This contributes a great deal to the economy in Florida. This sensible legislation will ensure that our friends to the north are able to extend their stay in the U.S. for two additional months without any additional costs to American taxpayers. Canada is one of America’s closest allies and her citizens contribute millions of dollars to the U.S. economy. This bill will provide an incentive for additional tourism from Canada in the future, and will strengthen the bond between our two nations.” Canadian travelers spend millions of dollars throughout the U.S. each year, many of which seek warmer climates during the winter months. Extending the amount of time Canadians can spend in the United States will better relationships with our Canadian neighbors and spur economic growth at no cost to the taxpayer.
01.30.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding individuals being unlawfully detained at Newark Liberty International Airport as a result of the President’s recent executive order: “The implementation of President Trump’s misguided executive actions changing the immigration policy towards seven Muslim-majority countries has been deeply troubling. As I stated last week, I am adamantly opposed to the executive actions because they are not only discriminatory, but they are un-American. That is why I have sent letters to both the Acting Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and the Acting Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection today requesting that they clarify any and all guidance regarding the implementation of the executive order and that attorneys be granted immediate access to detained individuals to provide counsel. It is critical for the Executive Branch to be transparent as it implements executive orders so that Congress has the opportunity to properly exercise its oversight.” To read Congressman Sires’ statement condemning President Trump’s executive action on refugees and immigration, click here: https://sires.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-sires-statement-condemning-president-trump-s-executive-0
01.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive orders suspending refugee resettlements and changes in immigration policy for certain countries: “It is deeply disappointing that during Trump’s first week in office he has doubled down on his corrosive and prejudiced campaign rhetoric. The President’s executive actions discriminate against Muslims who are desperately trying to escape enslavement, torture, and oppression. Islam is a religion of peace that has been thwarted and manipulated by certain ruthless murderous thugs. Denying innocent civilians the opportunity to escape such danger and apply for asylum runs counter to the ideals of America. The United States of America already has strict standards in place to ensure that individuals coming to America aren’t a threat. These processes can include up two years of vetting. Instead of working with Congress and our allies to fortify current mechanisms, the President is planning on shutting our doors and turning our backs on people seeking security and a better future. America was built on the backs of hardworking immigrants who came from all walks of life. Muslims immigrants have contributed proudly to this country for decades, including the several thousand who serve in our Armed Forces protecting our homeland. Banning entry to the United States simply because of an individual’s birthplace or religion is the antithesis of American values“ President Trump’s Executive Order, as reported, suspends visas into the United States for all individuals from Iran, Libya, Sudan, Syria, Somalia, Yemen, and Iraq. Additionally, it halts all refugee admissions to the U.S. for 120 days except for religious minorities.
01.25.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the Department of Education Secretary Nominee Betsy DeVos: “I urge the Senate to oppose the confirmation of Betsy DeVos to lead the Department of Education when her nomination is put to a vote. Last week’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee proved that Mrs. DeVos does not possess the qualifications to head our nation’s education system. Not only does Mrs. DeVos lack experience within the public school system, but she also made it abundantly clear that she does not fully understand the scope of the job she has been nominated to serve. In addition to her insufficient record regarding public education, it is also deeply concerning that Mrs. DeVos will not commit to continuing gun-free school zones nor uphold policies that support students with disabilities. As a product and advocate of the public education system, I fear the challenges that will face students and educators in New Jersey and across America should Mrs. DeVos be at the helm of our public schools. The next Secretary of Education should support increased resources for high-quality public schools, investments in early childhood education, and efforts to make college more affordable.” The Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee held a confirmation hearing on the nomination of Betsy DeVos to serve as Secretary of Education on January 17, 2017.
01.25.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive actions directing the Administration to build a wall between the United States and Mexico: “The building of a wall on our Southern border with Mexico would accomplish nothing, except increase the deficit and restrict U.S. companies in Border States from growing their businesses. Building and maintaining a wall between the United States and Mexico is a billion dollar project that will be built at the expense of the U.S. taxpayer. Trump has estimated that this wall will cost at least $8 billion, and conflicting data indicates that it could cost at least double that initial figure. It is clear that our immigration system is broken and in need of substantial reforms. Plans that focus solely on physical barriers while ignoring those who are already in America is not an effective solution. Congress must work together, in a bipartisan manner, to pass comprehensive immigration reform that includes a process that requires those immigrants living outside the law to become legal citizens, learn English, pay taxes, and pass criminal background checks. It is also critical that the Trump Administration acknowledges the causes of the illegal immigration into our country, such as the widespread violence in Central America. That is why as the Ranking Member on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee I am committed to working with our neighbors in the hemisphere to find solutions to the continued violence that forces many to flee their homeland. In addition to costing the taxpayer billions of dollars, building and maintaining a wall along the Mexican border would do nothing but hurt U.S. businesses and alienate one of our strongest allies and neighbors.”
01.25.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive actions regarding the Department of Homeland Security’s Sanctuary Cities program, which could threaten to strip law enforcement funding from hundreds of cities across America: “Stripping funding from hundreds of cities across America will deprive resources from some of America’s biggest cities, the same places President Trump claimed to want to make safer. His actions will take away precious resources from law enforcement offices that work hard to keep our communities safe. In New Jersey’s 8th district alone, these policies could strip funding from Jersey City, Newark, West New York, and Union City. So called ‘sanctuary cities’ exist so people living in these communities can come out of the shadows to report crimes in their neighborhoods and cooperate with law enforcement officials. Removing funding from these cities only makes it harder for cops to do their jobs, putting more people at risk. Additionally, nominees for the President’s Cabinet have openly called for slashing critical federal funding for law enforcement; these critical programs such as the COPS program allow our cities to hire and retain police officers. Our law enforcement mechanisms should target violent offenders and criminals, not prioritize going from house to house to round up innocent men, women, and children. In the past, immigration raids have separated young children from their parents and torn families apart. The Administration should be working together with Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform and fix our broken immigration system instead of taking finite resources away from fighting crime and putting it towards rounding up innocent families.”
01.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding lack of transparency for government witnesses testifying before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Today, an amendment presented to the House Foreign Affairs Committee Rules for the 115th Congress by Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI) requiring witnesses to disclose conflicts and prior relationships with foreign agents failed to be included the final version. “In an increasingly interconnected world it is easy for our business leaders and government officials to have a tangled web of personal and professional networks that stretches across the globe. That is why I am disappointed that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle struck down a common sense amendment requesting that all government witnesses testifying before the House Foreign Affairs Committee disclose any substantial relationships and connections they have with foreign agents or entities that fall under the scope of the hearing. This amendment would have also required all government witnesses to disclose whether they had ever represented a foreign agent in the United States. Though I was proud to support this amendment, it was unfortunately defeated in a party-line vote earlier today. The straight forward requests in this amendment mimics the scrutiny already applied to all non-governmental witnesses that testify before our committee. I have always been proud that the Foreign Affairs Committee has tried to operate in a bipartisan manner but today was a blow to our committee’s oversight and investigation powers. I believe our constituents demand the highest standards of scrutiny and transparency when we conduct business in Washington D.C. and it is a shame that my colleagues and I were denied access to this critical and easily available information as we get to work in Washington. It is my hope that in the 115th Congress we can work together in a bipartisan way to ensure the strongest oversight of our federal agencies and the tax dollars used to fund them.”
01.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires was selected to continue to serve as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the 115th Congress. As a member of the Committee, he will also serve on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit; the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management. Congressman Sires has been a member of the Committee since 2008. “I look forward to continuing my work on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in order to create good American jobs, bring business to our shores, and stimulate the economy,” said Congressman Sires. “A robust and secure transportation system is critical to the residents and economy of the 8th District as we are home to thousands of commuters, multiple rail and transit systems, an intricate stretch of highways, and various ports.” The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has jurisdiction over all modes of transportation including aviation, bridges, highways, maritime transportation, mass transit, and railroads. Additionally, the Committee has jurisdiction over matters relating to oil spill laws, economic development for economically distressed areas, transportation of hazardous materials, environmental restoration, and projects for flood control. “As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee I will continue to work with my colleagues to further a transportation agenda that includes increasing infrastructure investments; expanding U.S. manufacturing and other industries; protecting workers rights; and strengthening the safety and sustainability of our transportation systems,” stated Congressman Sires.
01.24.2017	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires was selected by his peers on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to continue serving as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere for the 115th Congress. Congressman Sires has served as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee since the 113th Congress and has been a member of the Subcommittee for his entire tenure in the House of Representatives since 2006. “I thank my colleagues for their support and trust once again to lead the Democrats on a Subcommittee that oversees a part of the world that is not only important to our foreign policy and national security interests, but a region that is deeply personal to me and many of my constituents. In my capacity as Ranking Member I am eager to continue working with Chairman Duncan and the rest of the members of the Subcommittee to strengthen relations with our Canadian and Latin American neighbors, to ensure the prosperity of the Hemisphere, and to fight and protect human rights under siege in any of the region’s leaders who may try and trample them,” expressed Congressman Sires. The Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the countries in South America, North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. Other Democrats serving with Congressman Sires on the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere include Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX), Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL), Congresswoman Norma Torres (CA), Congressman Adriano Espaillat (NY) and, Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY). Congressman Sires was also selected to continue to serve as member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats.
01.23.2017	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) along with Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) introduced H.Res. 54, a resolution reaffirming the U.S.-Argentina partnership and recognizing Argentina’s economic reforms. Similarly, Senator Chris Coons (D-CT) and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) are introducing an identical resolution, ensuring our Congress speaks with one voice in reaffirming the U.S. - Argentina partnership. “Argentina is Latin America’s third largest economy and President Macri’s commitment to reassert Argentina’s leadership internationally and to strengthen its partnership with the U.S. is a positive step for hemispheric relations. President Macri’s decision to resolve the 15-year standoff with private creditors stemming from the 2001-02 economic crisis is also an excellent example of the President’s commitment to improve his country’s ties with the international community” said Rep. Sires. The resolution recognizes President Mauricio Macri’s efforts since his election in November 2015 to improve ties with the United States and restore the bilateral partnership previously enjoyed by both countries. It also sites Macri’s commitment to rebuild the economy, combat domestic corruption, defend human rights abroad, strengthen press freedoms, attract foreign direct investment, and return Argentina to the international credit markets. Finally, the resolution encourages the State Department to coordinate an interagency strategy to increase cooperation with Argentina on areas of bilateral, regional, and global concern; and the Macri government to continue to investigate and prosecute those responsible for the 1994 bombing of the Argentine-Israeli Mutual Association (AMIA) in Buenos Aires, as well as the January 2015 death of AMIA special prosecutor Alberto Nisman. Rep. Duncan stated, “This resolution confirms the value of a robust bilateral relationship between the United States and Argentina. Strong relationships with our neighbors in the Hemisphere are paramount to prosperity and security in an increasingly uncertain era abroad. I welcome the recent economic reforms instituted by President Macri, and I also encourage continued cooperation on the investigation into the suspicious death of Alberto Nisman and the 1994 AMIA bombing. I’m convinced Argentina has a bright future under President Macri’s strong leadership, and I look forward to continuing to work together on issues of mutual interest to further strengthen the bilateral relationship.” In the last Congress, Ranking Member Sires and Chairman Duncan traveled to Argentina to deepen bilateral relations and discuss security and law enforcement cooperation. Later that month, President Obama traveled to the country to strengthen engagement on trade and investment, renewable energy, climate change, security, and peacekeeping issues. “As a new Congress and Administration takes office here in Washington, this resolution sends a clear and important message that the U.S.-Argentina partnership continues to be a priority for United States foreign policy. I thank Chairman Duncan for working with me to introduce this bipartisan piece of legislation”, said Rep. Sires. H.Res. 54 was also introduced with the support of Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Chairman Emeritus of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Congressman issued the following statement about the Administration’s decision to end the “Wet Foot, Dry Foot” policy. Effective immediately, the Administration announced they are ending the policy commonly referred to as “Wet Foot, Dry Foot.” For nearly a decade, this policy has allowed Cubans fleeing their homeland, who reach our shores, to stay in America and have expedited access to Legal Permanent Residency. “I have long advocated for helping the people oppressed under the Castro regime after fleeing the island myself at the young age of eleven. "Wet Foot, Dry Foot" was enacted to help those fleeing Cuba’s oppressive regime. These people left in the dead of night, with nothing but the clothes on their backs, knowing they could never look back, leaving behind everything and everyone they knew. They made the treacherous journey in make-shift rafts, faring the choppy waters, and putting their lives at risk in hopes of a life away from Castro’s death squads and labor camps. Unfortunately, in recent years, people have used this policy to reap economic rewards by sending money back to the island or even going back themselves to visit. While I am sympathetic to the plight of all the Cuban people, this program was designed for those asylees and refugees that were forced to flee. Money sent back to the island has no choice but to pass through the hands of the regime that for years has been using this program to fill their coffers. Additionally, at a time when we are entering a new Administration, led by someone who has repeatedly made hateful and disparaging remarks on refugees, minorities, and immigrants, I question the timing of enacting policies that hinder the ability of those escaping persecution to find solace in our great nation. I continue to insist that any normalization with Cuba needs to put human rights and the basic freedoms the Cuban people yearn for first, and look forward to continuing to fight for the rights of the Cuban people.”
01.04.2017	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement on Republican proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “It appears that as one of the first acts of business in the new Congress, the Republican leadership will bring to the floor a vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which would essentially revoke health care coverage for 20 million Americans who have gained coverage thanks to the ACA. Specifically, repealing the ACA would jeopardize the health care of 249,395 New Jerseyans that have enrolled in coverage through the Marketplace. Not only does the ACA expand health coverage to millions of Americans that would otherwise go uninsured, it guards and strengthens the health care and financial security of every American, no matter where he or she gets health insurance. For example, up to 129 million people have a pre-existing health condition, including up to 3,847,727 people in New Jersey, that could have been denied coverage prior to the ACA. The ACA also allows for young adults to stay on their parents’ health insurance up to age 26, including an estimated 59,000 in New Jersey, who may otherwise be uninsured without this provision. Additionally, the ACA prohibits annual and lifetime limits on policies and provides for free preventative care- like flu shots and cancer screenings. An estimated 194,000 New Jerseyans have gained coverage through the expansion of Medicaid, improving their access to care, financial security, and health. If the Republican plan to repeal the ACA prevails, not only would millions of Americans lose coverage, but they would once again find health care coverage unaffordable, as many Americans, including 205,242 moderate-and middle-income New Jerseyans, receive tax credits that are available through the ACA to help pay for coverage. The repeal of the ACA will negatively impact working families the most and take us back to the old days when insurance companies were in charge. I am committed to working with my colleagues to fight for the coverage and protections that millions of Americans rely on.”
01.03.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Sires was sworn into the 115th Congress by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan. Shortly after 12:00 p.m., Congressman Sires and the entire membership of the House of Representatives stood and took the oath of office. Congressman Sires was elected to the House of Representatives in a special election in 2006. This will be his sixth full term in Congress. “I am honored to continue my work representing the people of the 8th District of New Jersey in the House of Representatives in the 115th Congress,” said Congressman Sires. “I remain committed to the priorities of the residents of the 8th District including, investments in our transportation and infrastructure to support jobs and increase safety, as well as the protection of Medicare and Social Security to ensure that residents are provided with the benefits that they were guaranteed and rely on.” Congressman Sires remains a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
12.14.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) sent a letter to Secretary Kerry, along with several other Members, urging the Administration to condemn the continued persecution of Coptic Christians and work with the Egyptian government to protect religious minorities in Egypt. “The Coptic Christian community in Egypt has faced continuous and targeted persecution despite its entrenched roots in Egyptian history and society. The bombing of St. Peter’s Church in Cairo on December 11 is a stark reminder of the ongoing discrimination and intolerance confronting nearly ten percent of Egypt’s population. The Egyptian government and President el-Sisi must do more to ensure that the rights of all Egypt’s citizens are protected, and that all Egypt’s communities can live free from fear of violence,” stated Congressman Sires. Coptic Christians in Egypt comprise as much as forty percent of the population in some areas, and can trace their roots back to Egypt for over two thousand years. However, the Christian community in Egypt has suffered from escalated rates of vigilante violence targeting their community. The recent bombing of St. Peter’s Church that killed dozens and injured hundreds is a poignant reminder of the dangers facing Coptic Christians on a daily basis. Rep. Ros-Lehtinen stated, “I strongly condemn the vicious terrorist attack at Cairo’s St. Mark’s Cathedral targeting Coptic Christians. The increasing frequency of persecution against Egypt’s Christians is deeply alarming and I urge our administration to work with the Egyptian government to help protect vulnerable religious minorities and ensure that the perpetrators of all attacks against Copts are brought to justice as soon as possible. The safety and human rights of Copts, other religious minorities, and indeed, all Egyptian citizens, must be protected.” Full text of the letter to Secretary Kerry can be found here. Members of Congress joining Sires and Ros-Lehtinen on the letter were: Rep. Theodore Deutch (D-FL), Rep. David Trott (R-MI), Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), and Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY).
12.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the bombing in Cairo, Egypt that targeted Coptic Christians. "Attacking innocent civilians is a deplorable and cowardly act. Families and communities should never live in fear of violence taking place at their houses of worship. These institutions have served as sanctuaries for thousands of years and I am appalled by the deliberate targeting of innocent men, women, and children during their Sunday services. Reports of 25 confirmed dead, dozens more injured, and with the death toll expected to rise, this bombing is a brutal reminder of the prejudices facing Egypt’s Coptic Christians, a long persecuted minority who make up roughly 10 percent of the population. I offer my condolences to the families of victims who perished in the bombing. My thoughts and prayers go out to all those still awaiting news regarding the safety of their loved ones in Cairo. I hope the Egyptian government honors its promises on the swift and thorough investigation of these vicious crimes.”
11.26.2016	Washington D.C.--- Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the passing of Fidel Castro, the dictator who ruled Cuba for nearly half a century. "Fidel Castro defiled democracy, oppressed innocent people, and imprisoned a nation with his totalitarian tactics. His passing needs to serve as a new dawn for the Cuban people who are yearning for freedom. The international community should seize this moment and insist that the Cuban people deserve more. We must insist that all political prisoners are freed and that basic human rights are respected. The Cuban people deserve to live in a society where they have the freedom to access information, to organize, to worship, and to speak what is on their mind without fear of being thrown into the gulags. When I was only 11 years old my parents made the courageous decision to leave the island to protect my family from Castro's communist ways. It is thanks to their sacrifice that I was able to grow up in the United States of America, where I enjoyed the basic freedoms and human rights that the Cuban people both deserve and desire. It is time to honor the sacrifices made by them and the countless families who continue fighting tirelessly to shed light on an island that has been shrouded in darkness for far too long."
11.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s appointment of Steve Bannon to a top White House position: “The appointment of Steve Bannon, a man who promotes xenophobic, racist, and radical ideologies is not the way to bring people together. Bannon’s prior actions and his most recent appointment to chief strategist at the White House have brought praise from the KKK and the American Nazi Party Chairman while drawing rebuke from the Anti-Defamation League, an organization committed to identifying and condemning Anti-Semitism. Over the past week many have sought ways to heal and move forward. We have heard repeated calls asking the American people and Congress to put aside their differences after a divisive election season. The President-elect should be taking tangible steps to shows he will govern on behalf of all Americans and not continue to condone hateful, dangerous, and discriminatory behavior. As such, I am proud to join over 160 of my colleagues in signing a letter to President-elect Trump urging him to rescind his appointment of Bannon immediately and hire a diverse White House staff that represents our core American values of diversity and tolerance.” The full text is available below. A PDF of the letter sent to Trump Tower can be downloaded by clicking here. ------------------------ Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance.
09.29.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the New Jersey Transit train crash at Hoboken Terminal: “My thoughts and prayers are with those affected by the train crash this morning at Hoboken Terminal. Hoboken Terminal is a critical juncture for commuters across my District and across New Jersey. I will be monitoring the situation as local, state, and federal investigators assess the incident and new details are provided. As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I stand by as a resource for local officials as the investigation unfolds.”
09.22.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, made the following statement after H.R. 5708 – the Nicaraguan Investment Conditionality Act (NICA) of 2016 – was approved by unanimous consent in the U.S. House of Representatives. Representative Sires: “I am proud to have worked with my good friend from Florida, Rep. Ros-Lehtinen to pass this urgent piece of legislation. The U.S. should stand strong in the face of Ortega’s continued efforts to stifle democratic processes and attempt to create an Ortega dynasty by naming his wife as his running mate. Ortega and his cronies mistakenly think that the U.S. will turn a blind eye to his autocratic actions and corrupt policies that have made him one of the richest men in the country while Nicaraguan people work hard to make ends meet. I will continue to stand with the Nicaraguan people until their voices are heard. I thank my colleagues for their bipartisan and unanimous support of the NICA Act which urges the U.S. to curb Ortega’s access to international financing institutions until he tackles corruption and holds free, fair, and transparent elections.” Representative Ros-Lehtinen: “Daniel Ortega continues to consolidate power and trample on the rule of law and democratic foundations of Nicaragua which has led to economic and political instability in the country. This bill is aimed at holding Ortega and his regime accountable for violating human rights and manipulating the electoral process for his own political gain. In addition, the NICA Act directs the Department of State to issue a report on how Nicaraguan regime officials in the Supreme Electoral Council, the National Assembly, or the judicial systems are directly involved in acts of public corruption and human rights violations. By passing this bill, the House has taken action to prevent Ortega from accessing international funds until reforms are implemented that promote democracy, strengthen the rule of law, respect human rights, and until Nicaragua holds free, fair and transparent elections overseen by electoral observers. We will continue to support the people of Nicaragua and assist civil society in democracy and governance programs but we must not allow Ortega to continue down this dangerous path without any serious repercussions.”
09.16.2016	(Elizabeth, N.J.) – Today, Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-08) and Elizabeth Mayor J. Christian Bollwage announced a constituent service event for veterans that will be held on October 6, 2016 at the Stephen Sampson Senior Center in Elizabeth. This veteran claims clinic will allow veterans to meet one-on-one with a representative from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to discuss benefits, claims, compensation, or entitlements. “Our veterans deserve first-class service and treatment and shouldn’t have to cut through red tape just to get the benefits that they earned by serving our country,” said Rep. Sires. “I am pleased that local veterans will have the convenience of meeting with a VA representative at the Stephen Sampson Senior Center. I am grateful for the Newark Regional Office of the VA for offering to meet with 8th District veterans one-on-one to work with them on the issues they may have.” The visit by the VA will allow veterans to meet one-on-one with a VA representative to learn more about compensation and entitlements, as wells to discuss ongoing claims and appeals. The visit is part of the VA’s efforts to “Enhance the Veteran’s Experience” by making the VA more accessible to veterans throughout New Jersey’s Congressional Districts. Meetings with a VA representative are by appointment only. “Our Veterans have served and sacrificed to preserve our nation’s highest ideals,” said Mayor J. Christian Bollwage. “For their tremendous contributions to our country and difference they continue to make each day, they have our utmost respect and deserve immediate access to benefits and the best in care.” The event will take place from 9:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. at the Stephen Sampson Senior Center, which is located at 800 Anna Street, Elizabeth, NJ 07201. Veterans interested in meeting with a VA representative can contact 202-225-7919 to schedule an appointment.
09.15.2016	(Bayonne, N.J.) – Today, Reps. Albio Sires (NJ-08) and Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) along with Bayonne Mayor James Davis announced a Veterans Claim Clinic for veterans that will be held on October 5, 2016 at the Catholic War Veterans Post 1612 in Bayonne. This event will allow veterans to meet one-on-one with a representative from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to discuss benefits, claims, compensation, or entitlements. “All too often, our veterans are discouraged by the steps it takes to receive the VA benefits they earned,” said Congressman Sires. “I am grateful that the Newark Regional Office of the VA has offered to meet with veterans one-on-one to listen to their concerns and to work with them on the issues they may have. Our veterans deserve quality care and shouldn’t have to cut through red tape just to get the services that they were promised.” “We must always ensure that veterans, service members, and their families have access to the quality health care and resources they have earned and deserve,” said Congressman Payne, Jr. “Our veterans clinic will provide local veterans of all ages with an accessible, one-stop shop where they can get immediate, one-on-one assistance with VA representatives and access the services they need.” The visit by the VA will allow veterans to meet one-on-one with a VA representative to learn more about compensation and entitlements, as well as to discuss ongoing claims and appeals. The visit is part of the VA’s efforts to “Enhance the Veteran’s Experience” by making the VA more accessible to veterans throughout New Jersey’s Congressional Districts. Meetings with a VA representative are by appointment only. "I want to thank Congressmen Albio Sires and Donald Payne, Jr. for sponsoring this event, which will provide our veterans with easy, convenient access to quality health care services," said Bayonne Mayor James Davis. "Our vets put their lives on the line for our way of life. In appreciation, we should continue to reach out a helping hand, and provide vital services, like these, that improve their quality of life." The event will take place at the Catholic War Veterans Post 1612, which is located at 18 West 23rd Street, Bayonne, NJ 07002. Veterans interested in meeting with a VA representative can contact 202-225-7919 to schedule an appointment.
09.15.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere passed H.Res. 851, Expressing profound concern about the ongoing political, economic, social, and humanitarian crises in Venezuela, as amended, and H.R. 5708, the Nicaragua Investment Conditionality Act of 2016, as amended. Both pieces of legislation acknowledge the deterioration of democracy, rule of law, and human rights in Venezuela and Nicaragua and achieved wide bipartisan support, passing unanimously by the Subcommittee. Ranking Member Sires - Throughout my time in Congress, I have voiced my profound concern about the decline of democracy and civil liberties in Venezuela. The undemocratic policies and corruption of the Maduro government in Venezuela have laid waste to the political and economic institutions of that resource-rich nation. Meanwhile, in Nicaragua, Ortega has positioned himself to be President for Life, this is a situation that flies in the face of American values and one I find unacceptable and I thank Chairman Duncan and Representatives Wasserman Schultz and Ros-Lehtinen for their leadership on these key issues. Chairman Duncan – We are all familiar with the horrific economic, political, and human rights crisis in Venezuela and the ongoing deterioration of democracy and the rule of law in Nicaragua. Given the need for the governments of both countries to respect the people’s wishes in holding a recall referendum in Venezuela before the end of this year and in supporting democracy and the rule of law in the November 6th election in Nicaragua, I believe it is imperative that the United States stand with the people to support democracy, free and fair elections, and human rights in both countries. I applaud the efforts of Representatives Wasserman Schultz and Ros-Lehtinen with these pieces of legislation and deeply appreciate the excellent partnership with Ranking Member Sires to achieve bipartisan support in urging the Obama Administration to do more to support U.S. interests and the people in each country.
08.17.2016	NEWARK, N.J. – Congressman Albio Sires and U.S. Senators Bob Menendez and Cory Booker today announced that North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue is receiving $6 million in federal funding to hire full-time firefighters and help strengthen the department's ability to effectively respond to local fire emergencies, protect high-risk populations and decrease firefighter injuries. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER)grant program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “This federal funding will have a big impact on North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue and the five municipalities the department protects,” said Rep. Sires. “Each day, the firefighters from North Hudson Regional respond to emergencies in Guttenberg, North Bergen, Union City, West New York, and Weehawken. This significant grant will provide for more manpower on shifts; resulting in more adequate responses to emergencies in the area.” "I am incredibly pleased that with today's announcement, we will be able to put several new full-time firefighters on the job, protecting ourneighborhoods," said Sen. Menendez, who co-sponsors with Sen. Booker workshops to help departments prepare competitive grant applications. "Public safety is job one and this is a critical investment in our ongoing fight to strengthen our communities, protect our families and support our first responders." “New Jersey’s firefighters and fire departments have the vital responsibility of protecting our communities,” Booker, who wrote FEMA in-support of North Hudson’s application, said.They deserve more support and resources so they are able to do their jobs safely and effectively. The FEMA funding announced today will help keep people in North Hudson New Jersey safe, putting new firefighters on the ground and helping to recruit the staff necessary to protect our communities.” “North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue protects one of the most densely populated areas in the country, which houses mass transit infrastructure that is critical not only to our local communities, but to our region,” said Fire Chief Frank Montagne. “This grant will allow North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue to continue to ensure our ability to provide first-class fire and rescue services by providing the department with the resources needed to protect our residents.” Specifically, North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue (NHR) will receive a $5,994,660 SAFER grant to hire or retain full time fire fighters. NHR is New Jersey's only regionalized fire department and serves the following municipalities: Guttenberg, North Bergen, Weehawken, West New York and Union City. Its 12.5 square-mile primary service area is the nation's most densely-populated. The SAFER program is designed to increase the number of frontline firefighters, enhancing the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and assuring that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards.
07.22.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today Rep. Albio Sires announced over $745,000 in federal Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) funding for North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue. “I congratulate North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue for this significant grant,” said Rep. Sires. “This important funding will better equip firefighters protecting Guttenberg, North Bergen, Union City, West New York, and Weehawken and keep their residents safe.” North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue will be able to purchase eighty (80) self-contained breathing apparatus machines. The new machines will replace the existing air packs which are over fifteen (15) years old and have reached life expectancy. This will allow for all on duty firefighters to be equipped with this life saving apparatus. The self-contained breathing apparatus will give the firefighter ten (10) extra minutes of air time for firefighting inside a burning structure or more importantly to allow for ten (10) more minutes to escape from a hazardous atmosphere. The AFG Program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards.
07.08.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the shooting during a peaceful protest in Dallas, TX: “I am outraged by the heinous ambush and murder of brave Americans who swore an oath to protect the public from harm every day. Cowardly acts of unnecessary violence cannot be tolerated, whether they are directed at law enforcement or civilians. Last night’s shooting, which ended the lives of those protecting peaceful protestors, reminds us all of the critical role the men and women of our police departments play in our communities. I join Americans across the country in grieving with the families of the individuals who lost their lives and stand with those who seek to unify our country during this difficult time.”
06.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Financial Action Task Force’s decision to suspend its countermeasures against Iran for 12 months: “While the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has rightfully continued to blacklist Iran, I am concerned about their decision to suspend countermeasures for an entire year. Iran has merely passed legislation creating a framework to tackle money laundering and not shown any tangible efforts to implement such laws. Most troubling, the legislation creates a carve out for ‘foreign fighters.’ This stipulation shows that Iran is not at all serious about preventing money from being laundered to violent and extremist groups. Let us not forget that Iran continues to be the world’s foremost sponsor of terrorism. I urge the Administration and all our allies across the globe to continue their vigilance in thwarting Iran’s efforts to export terrorism and harm innocent civilians.”
06.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks in Istanbul, Turkey. “Yesterday’s attack at Istanbul’s Ataturk Airport was a cowardly and hideous assault on a key ally in the fight against ISIL. I am disgusted by the terrorist tactics that continuously target innocent men, women, and children. These attacks are unfortunately another example of how militant extremists’ only goal is to instill fear amongst the people for their own twisted satisfaction. I extend my deepest condolences to the victims and their loved ones. We stand with our friends in Turkey as they begin to heal through this difficult time and assure them we are committed to holding all those responsible for perpetrating this act accountable.”
06.23.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s split decision on President Obama’s executive actions to expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program: “I am disappointed in today’s 4-4 split decision by the Supreme Court, putting millions of families in America at risk of being torn apart. The Supreme Court’s split decision further amplifies the need for the Senate to do its job and hold confirmation hearings to fill the vacant Supreme Court seat. I have been fighting for Comprehensive Immigration Reform since I came to Congress and I will not let today’s setback deter my colleagues and I from continuing the fight to bring well-deserved and a much overdue permanent solution to our broken immigration system.”
06.22.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires and Congressman Payne, Jr. sent a letter signed by 14 additional Members of Congress to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy urging greater federal attention to address poor air quality issues caused by air pollution from ports and other components of the freight transportation system. Vulnerable communities concentrated in the vicinity of ports and congested freight infrastructure are exposed to unhealthy levels of air pollution. This results in an increased risk for cancer, missed school days, and more hospital visits for the 13 million people, including 3.5 million children, who make up these communities. “New Jersey is home to some of the most congested components of the transportation network, and the demand for freight transportation continues to grow. By 2040, freight tonnage is expected to increase by 45 percent,” said Congressman Sires. “It is unfair that these communities that tend to be low-income and minority are forced to live with disproportionately unsafe air pollution. It is critical that we act now to prevent even more devastating health issues as freight transportation grows.” “I am deeply concerned about the adverse effects of poor air quality on my constituents who live near ports and freight networks,” said Congressman Payne, Jr. “Low-income and minority communities are disproportionately impacted by high levels of pollution from ports in New Jersey. Exposure to port pollution puts residents, especially children, in danger. There is an urgent need for more aggressive action to reduce emissions. Doing so will reduce threats to our environment, and, most importantly, it will save lives.” The letter urged Administrator McCarthy to consider actions to reduce air pollution by developing standards to limit pollution to safe levels, assist state and local governments to address freight-generated pollution through Clean Air Act state implementation plans, and engage communities affected by freight pollution to give them a greater voice in emissions reductions goals and actions. A pdf copy of the letter can be viewed here.
06.22.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, in the wake of the of the deadliest mass shooting in American history, Congressman Sires joined House Democrats’ sit-in on the House Floor to demand that House Republicans bring commonsense, bipartisan legislation addressing gun violence to a vote. “While House Republicans have been silent after the tragedy in Orlando last week, average Americans have not,” said Rep. Sires. “Our constituents are demanding action, not inaction. We can no longer shrug our shoulders in the wake of gun violence; Congress must summon the courage to act.” Congressman Sires, a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, is a cosponsor of the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015, which would keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. Congressman Sires is also a cosponsor of additional gun violence prevention legislation including: the King-Thompson Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act; the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015; the Gun Violence Research Act; the Stop Online Ammunition Sales Act of 2015; and the Safer Neighborhoods Gun Buyback Act of 2015. “I am proud to have joined a veteran of the civil rights movement, Rep. John Lewis, and my Democratic colleagues on the floor of the House today to demand a vote on commonsense legislation,” expressed Congressman Sires. “It is my hope that Speaker Ryan will listen to the will of the American people by allowing bipartisan measures to come to the House Floor for a vote.”
06.20.2016	Democratic-led filibuster successful in forcing votes on measures to close terror gap, expand background checks
06.13.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding yesterday’s shooting in Orlando, FL: “Like all Americans, I am saddened and deeply troubled by the terrorist attack that occurred in Orlando, Florida during the early hours of Sunday morning. At least 49 people had their lives stolen from them, while dozens more remain injured. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this heinous act, along with their families, their friends, and the LGBT community. As President Obama stated yesterday, an attack on any American, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, or sexual orientation, is an attack on us all. As this investigation remains ongoing, I would like to thank the brave first responders of the Orlando area for their efforts yesterday morning. This attack serves as a solemn reminder that there will always be those who threaten the freedoms we, as Americans, hold dear. I am confident that the resiliency of both the Orlando and LGBT communities will prove that Americans stand together in the face of adversity and united against those wishing to undermine our way of life.”
06.10.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires praised the announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation of a discretionary grant to NJ Transit for the Hoboken Boiler and Terminal Repairs Project. The funding was awarded through the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief Program that helps States and public transportation systems pay for protecting, repairing, and replacing equipment and facilities that may have incurred serious damages as a result of an emergency including natural disasters. “Hoboken Terminal sustained serious damage as a result of Hurricane Sandy,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased that NJ Transit will have the capital to repair some of the destruction to return Hoboken Terminal to a fully operational transit facility.” The grant totals $8.4 million and will go towards several repairs to the terminal, including its boiler system.
05.19.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires praised the announcement from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of two awards to Jersey City Redevelopment Agency. The funding was awarded through EPA’s Brownfields Program, which helps communities assess, clean up, redevelop, and reuse contaminated properties, ranging from former manufacturing, processing, or transportation facilities to dumps and gas stations. “Too often, brownfields are left to plague communities as uninhabitable property,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased that Jersey City will now be able to utilize this funding to transform these sites from neglected eyesores to civic spaces.” In particular, Jersey City will receive two cleanup grants totaling $400,000. Funds will go towards environmental site assessments, preparing cleanup plans, and community outreach activities.
05.19.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 4974, the fiscal year (FY) 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies appropriations bill. This bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 295-129. While this legislation provides funding for important military construction and veterans programs, it neglects the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by funding it $1.5 billion below the President’s requested level. “Our men and women in uniform face enormous challenges while serving our country and they should not have to jump over hurdles to receive proper care when they return home,” stated Congressman Sires. “Veterans in the 8th District and across New Jersey continue to struggle to receive the proper care they deserve; underfunding the VA is not the solution to this widespread problem.” While the bill provides funding for some critical military and veterans measures, its falls short of the requested funding levels for medical services and construction projects at the VA. Specifically, the bill includes a $228 million decrease in medical service funding from the Administration’s request and a $1.2 billion decrease for construction and major projects. In addition to failing to provide this crucial funding, the bill includes unnecessary and inflammatory provisions, such as prohibiting funding for temporary housing projects for unaccompanied immigrant children at military installations. “Funding military construction and veterans affairs initiatives must not be a partisan issue,” expressed Congressman Sires. “It is my hope that if a Senate version advances and a conference committee is formed, both sides of the aisle will work together in the best interests of our Nation’s veterans to address the severe underfunding of the VA.” H.R. 4974 awaits passage of a Senate counterpart in order to go to conference.
05.10.2016	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, Reps. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Albio Sires (NJ-08) introduced H.R. 5177, the National Mitigation Investment Act of 2016 (NMIA). The National Mitigation Investment Act of 2016 works to alleviate losses to residential and commercial property following a natural disaster through pre-disaster preventative measures. It would provide incentives for the adoption and active enforcement of state building codes. It would also amend the Robert Safford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance act to allow the President to increase mitigation assistance following a natural disaster by 4% of the estimated aggregate amount if a state is enforcing building codes. Additionally, H.R. 5177 would encourage states to require that local governments use a current version of a nationally applicable model building code that addresses natural hazards as a basis for design and construction. Finally, NMIA would direct the FEMA Administration to establish a pilot program to award grants to state and local governments to encourage the adoption and enforcement of nationally recognized building codes. “The residents of both Florida and New Jersey have had to rebuild communities after the devastating effects of catastrophic natural disasters. Returning to a life of normalcy is not only tremendously difficult, but can take multiple years. Furthermore, chronic tidal flooding poses a significant threat to real estate along our waterfront communities. This undoubtedly affects insurance rates, property values, clean water supplies, and general public welfare. The National Mitigation Investment Act would help to alleviate the burdens experienced post-natural disaster through pre-emptive methods by encouraging state and local governments to adhere to nationally recognized building codes. I thank Rep. Sires for being my fellow co-lead on this bill—it’s important that we put measures in place to protect the future stability of our nation," said Rep. Curbelo. “Superstorm Sandy, like other storms around the country, exposed just how vulnerable our infrastructure is. As these natural disasters continue to occur more frequently, it is time to apply the lessons learned to prevent similar destruction from occurring in the future,” said Rep. Sires. “The National Mitigation Investment Act will aid communities in implementing pre-disaster mitigation tools to avert further crisis.” To read H.R. 5177 in its entirety, please click here.
04.20.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted in favor of H.R. 4937, the Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (PIPES) Act of 2016 in a Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure markup. The legislation authorizes $696 million over four years for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Administration’s (PHMSA) pipeline safety program, including $211 million in grants to States. “I am pleased that the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure came together to pass this important bill with robust improvements to our pipeline safety program,” said Congressman Sires. “New Jersey is home to over 35,000 miles of pipeline that connect over 8.9 million residents to their energy needs. Ensuring the integrity of our pipeline infrastructure in high density areas like ours is vital to ensuring the safety of our communities.” Specifically, the PIPES Act would provide the Secretary of Transportation with new authority to impose emergency safety measures on pipeline operators to address an imminent hazard. The bill would boost funding for grants to States to help administer pipeline safety programs and provide $1.5 million annually for grants to local communities and safety groups to conduct pipeline studies and public awareness campaigns. It would also direct DOT to establish safety standards for underground natural gas storage tanks. “I remember the 1994 incident in which a pipeline carrying natural gas ruptured catastrophically in Edison, New Jersey, not far from my home,” said Congressman Sires. “Within one to two minutes, the gas ignited and flames shot in the air. The fire destroyed eight buildings, forced 1,500 apartment residents to evacuate, left 100 homeless, and left one dead. Sadly, these incidents continue to occur, but I believe that legislation like the PIPES Act will improve the state of our pipeline infrastructure.”
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement expressing disappointment over the Department of Transportation (DOT)’s decision to tentatively grant Norwegian Air International (NAI) the right to fly to the United States. “I am disappointed with DOT’s Show Cause Order issued today that may grant NAI a foreign air carrier permit and allow the company to fly to the U.S. Despite NAI’s claim to be an Irish airline, it is owned by a Norwegian parent company and does not operate flights to or from Ireland. The Irish flag-of-convenience allows NAI to hire its Bangkok-based flight crews under independent contracts through a recruitment firm based in Singapore in order to skirt Norwegian labor laws. I remain concerned that granting NAI’s application for a foreign air carrier permit is not in the public interest and would unfairly put domestic airlines at a competitive disadvantage. Moreover, I reiterate my belief that NAI’s flag-of-convenience business model does not comply with provisions of the U.S.-EU Open Skies Agreement that state that any new air services into the U.S. must meet certain agreed upon labor standards. Granting this application will set a dangerous precedent and send a message to new air carriers wishing to fly into the U.S. The facts of the matter have clearly demonstrated that the application should be categorically denied. I will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with the hundreds of Members of Congress who signed the letter that I led with Rep. Collins (R-NC) to Secretary Foxx noting our concern and opposition in an effort to ensure that U.S. workers are allowed to compete on a level playing field. The decision by DOT today does the opposite.”
03.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks that took place on Easter Sunday in Lahore, Pakistan. “I am appalled by the malicious and cowardly terrorist attacks targeting innocent children that occurred in Pakistan over the weekend. These attacks, taking place on the heels of the attacks in Brussels are unfortunately another example of how violent extremists will stop at nothing to terrorize innocent families. The targeting of young children in a park is a cowardly and heinous act that should be confronted swiftly and without pause. My condolences go out to the families and loved ones of the victims."
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium. “I am disgusted by the vicious terrorist attacks targeting innocent men, women, and children that took place in Belgium earlier today. I echo Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel’s words that these attacks are ‘blind, violent, and cowardly’. These attacks are unfortunately another example of how militant extremists will stop at nothing to terrorize people all over the world. The senseless targeting of civilians is a spineless tactic and the U.S. must stand with our allies to combat these heinous crimes. My condolences go out to the families and loved ones of the victims. Today we stand with our Belgian allies and are committed to finding all those who were responsible for this attack and bringing them to justice.”
02.18.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement on President Obama’s upcoming trip to Cuba: “The President’s announcement this morning that he will travel to Cuba next month is extremely troubling and represents yet another concession to the Castro brothers while the Cuban people continue to languish without access to basic freedoms. This trip sets a dangerous precedent for U.S. presidents visiting dictators in Latin America and is another step towards legitimizing a dictatorial regime that thrives on the backs of innocent Cuban people. President Obama previously stated that he would only travel to Cuba if he can meet with pro-democracy dissidents there and it is my hope that the President stands by his words. Prior to his travel to the island, the President must also insist on the return of the FBI’s number one terrorist, Joanne Chesimard, who murdered New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster and still roams freely in Cuba. President Obama’s trip is under the guise of charting a new course for U.S.-Cuban relations and connecting U.S. and Cuban citizens however, since the Administration has taken a new direction in Cuba policy, Cubans have been arrested and repressed at higher rates than ever before. Unfortunately, the President continues to reward this oppressive regime and give away any leverage that the U.S. has to improve the lives of ordinary Cubans.”
02.03.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Yesterday, Congressman Sires voted to oppose overriding the President’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Budget Reconciliation bill which would take away health coverage from millions of Americans by dismantling the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and defunding Planned Parenthood. “For the 63rd time the Republicans have voted to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. Thankfully, the President’s veto has been sustained and millions of Americans will not have to fear that their health coverage will be taken away. Additionally, millions of women have been assured that they will continue to have access to life-saving cancer screenings and family planning services provided by Planned Parenthood,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, H.R. 3762 would repeal the ACA’s Medicaid expansion provisions and the ACA’s premium tax credits, effective in 2018; gut the individual shared responsibility provision and employer shared responsibility provision by eliminating the fees for not complying; repeal the Prevention Fund; and repeal the small business health coverage tax credit. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill would have resulted in 22 million Americans losing their health coverage after 2017. In addition to repealing many of the key provisions of the ACA, H.R. 3762 would prohibit federal funding through Medicaid for Planned Parenthood in 2016, leaving millions of women without key preventive health services. “I am grateful that the President’s veto of this toxic bill was sustained and now hope that my colleagues are ready to move forward with a new strategy that will help American families instead of stripping away essential benefits,” stated Congressman Sires. The veto was sustained by a vote of 241 to 186 (a two-thirds vote is required to override a veto) and H.R. 3762 will not become law.
01.19.2016	(Jersey City, N.J.) - "The State of New Jersey has lost a devoted civil servant in the passing of former New Jersey Supreme Court Justice Marie L. Garibaldi," Congressman Sires said in a statement. "Justice Garibaldi was the first woman to be appointed to the New Jersey Supreme Court. She was also the first woman to serve as President of the New Jersey State Bar Association. Justice Garibaldi was a long time resident of Weehawken, New Jersey where she served as the Chairwoman of the Hudson Riverfront Performing Arts Center in Weehawken. She also served as the Weehawken Municipal Court Judge from 1973 to 1975." "Justice Garibaldi paved the way and will always be remembered for her years of dedicated service to the State of New Jersey and to the Township of Weehawken."
01.13.2016	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the House of Representatives voting to pass H.R. 757 the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act 418 to 2: “Recent reports of North Korea testing a hydrogen bomb show that North Korea is committed to destabilizing the region and antagonizing its neighbors at the expense of the wellbeing and safety of their own people. North Korean families are left without food and other basic necessities; any actions perceived as political dissent against the state can get people sent away to concentration camps. Meanwhile, Kim Jong Un continues to live a life of luxury dedicated to instigating conflict on the backs of his people. I was glad to vote for the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act, legislation authorizing the Obama Administration to impose targeted sanctions on entities all over the world that assist North Korea in its illicit pursuit of weapons of mass destruction, arms trafficking, money laundering, or human rights abuses. The international community must work together to choke off support to this abusive regime’s ongoing illicit activities.” H.R. 757 now awaits further action in the Senate.
01.13.2016	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union speech before Congress: “Last night, President Obama had a direct conversation with the American people and discussed the challenges and opportunities that will impact our country for generations to come. I agree with the President’s goals for providing opportunities to raise the minimum wage, fix a broken immigration system, make college more affordable, and protect more children from gun violence. The President focused on our nation’s future being built on the American spirit of innovation, discussing initiatives to push for advances in medical breakthroughs to cure cancer and to accelerate expansions in clean energy innovation to create new jobs. Most importantly, the President reminded the nation of what makes America great, citing our diversity and rejection of fear and intolerance. America succeeds when we oppose extreme partisanship and find common ground when addressing our most difficult challenges. As the President noted, we in Congress will never agree on everything, but my hope is that over the next year, Congress can work with President Obama to focus on policies that will continue to support American families and grow our economy.”
01.07.2016	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the recent raids conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers targeted at Central American families fleeing violence: "I find these recent ICE raids deeply troubling. These raids are apprehending families fleeing unprecedented levels of violence to protect themselves and their children. They come from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, countries with some of the highest murder rates in the world. Uncontrolled violence is paralyzing communities, preventing children from attending school, and even making public transportation a life-threatening endeavor. On January 1st alone, the Salvadoran people suffered from at least 29 homicides. Furthermore, if the past is any indication, raids can target the wrong people, prevent due process, and stoke fear amongst immigrant communities, pushing them deeper into the shadows. I urge the Administration to keep its word when they enforce our immigration laws and target â€˜felonies not families."
01.06.2016	(Washington D.C.) - US Representatives Nita Lowey (NY-17), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Albio Sires (NJ-8), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Susan Davis (CA-53), and Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) today sent a letter to President Barack Obama calling for immediate punitive sanctions in response to Iran's recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. The lawmakers issued the following joint statement: "We condemn Irann's blatant violation of international law, and urge the Administration to act immediately with punitive measures. Iran's destabilizing behavior in the region and continued support for terrorism represent an unacceptable threat to our closest allies as well as our own national security. As the international community prepares for implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran must understand that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We call on the Administration to immediately announce new, U.S. sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iran's ballistic missile program to ensure Iran is held accountable for its actions." The full letter is available below: January 6, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to express our serious concern with Iranâ€™s recent violation of international law by test-firing medium-range ballistic missiles in October and November 2015. As you know, the United Nations (UN) Security Panel of Experts concluded that the October test was a blatant violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1929. While the UN Panel has yet to characterize Iranâ€™s second medium range ballistic missile test in November as a violation, both exercises foster insecurity in surrounding countries about Iranâ€™s military capabilities and intent. Additionally, an Iranian rocketâ€”fired by Iranâ€™s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps during live-fire exercisesâ€”came within just 1,500 feet last week of the U.S. aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman that was operating in the Strait of Hormuz. Such aggressive and destabilizing behavior is deeply troubling, particularly preceding implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and demands a U.S. response. While not all of us share the same opinion on the JCPOA, we are united in our desire to ensure it is vigilantly enforced and to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. For this reason, the United States and our allies must take immediate, punitive action and send a clear message to Iran that violating international laws, treaties, and agreements will have serious consequences. We understand the Administration is preparing sanctions against individuals and entities involved in Iranâ€™s ballistic missile program, and we urge you to announce such sanctions without further delay. Inaction from the United States would send the misguided message that, in the wake of the JCPOA, the international community has lost the willingness to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its support for terrorism and other offensive actions throughout the regionâ€”including in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon, and the Gaza Strip. This behaviorâ€”including these ballistic missile testsâ€”poses a direct threat to American national security interests and those of our allies. As Members of Congress committed to regional and international security and stability, we stand ready to assist you in holding Iran accountable for its actions. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, NITA M. LOWEY DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ Member of Congress Member of Congress ELIOT L. ENGEL ALBIO SIRES Member of Congress Member of Congress GERALD E. CONNOLLY SUSAN DAVIS Member of Congress Member of Congress JERROLD NADLER Member of Congress
01.05.2016	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires issued the following statement today after President Obama announced new steps to prevent gun violence: "I am encouraged by the President's executive actions to combat gun violence in our country. These actions will help make our country safer without infringing on the rights of law-abiding owners of firearms. Notably, the steps taken by the President today will help prevent firearms from getting into the wrong hands through purchases at gun shows and over the Internet by requiring any business that sells firearms to get a license and conduct background checks. I share President Obama's frustration that neither the House nor Senate have taken up common sense legislation to address gun violence in the United States. Over 100,000 people have been killed in America over the past decade as a result of gun violence and millions more have been victims of crimes involving a gun. While President Obama's executive orders will make a difference in the fight to reduce gun violence, it is ultimately up to Congress to pass long-term reforms. As the Second Session of the 114th Congress begins, it is my hope that Congress will come together to pass reforms that build on the President's important steps to curb gun violence."
01.04.2016	The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21), held in Paris, France, concluded on December 12th with a progressive agreement amongst the 195 participating nations to work towards reducing the negative impacts of climate change. The resulting Paris Agreement is a pact to reduce global carbon emissions and to keep global warming to under 2 degrees Celsius. This agreement undoubtedly marks a positive step forward and signifies an international recognition that climate change is a serious issue that needs to be addressed immediately. Legally binding agreements to reduce global carbon emissions have always been difficult to achieve. Although issues like air pollution or sea level rise are acknowledged and dealt with on an individual basis, implementing strategies to curb them is often challenging. However, COP21 has proven that global attitudes about investment in climate change research and alternative energy development are shifting. Both the private and public sectors are showing willingness and an urgency to tackle these issues through investing in innovative technology. In addition to the collective pledge of $100 billion by 2020 by participating parties to help developing nations mitigate climate change, major financial initiatives were undertaken by developed nations and the private sector to invest in clean energy. Mission Innovation, for instance, is an agreement amongst 20 governments to double their investments in clean energy research and development (R&D) over the next five years. The coalition includes the five most populated countries (China, India, the United States, Indonesia, and Brazil) that together emit 75 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions from electricity. This equates to around $20 billion pledged by these countries to be invested in wind, solar, geothermal, and hydrogen energy R&D. As Mission Innovation exemplifies the steps be taken by international governments to address investments in clean energy development, the Breakthrough Energy Coalition, formed by Microsoft founder Bill Gates, represents the steps taken by private investors to invest in similar progress. The Coalition’s goal is to speed up the development of technologies to improve reliable, affordable, non-carbon producing energy. To do this, investors from around the world have come together to make significant financial commitments to a public research pipeline linked to substantial private investment The Agreement reached at COP21 is certainly promising and the emergence of an international commitment from both the public and private sectors to invest in affordable clean energy is equally encouraging. Technological innovation is paramount to combatting the issue of climate change, and the multi-billion dollar pledges made at COP21 represent a global readiness to work together in taking a positive step forward. As we begin the New Year, I look forward to watching these partnerships cultivate the clean energy technologies of the future.
12.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, H.R. 2241, the Global Health Innovation Act, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, passed the House of Representatives by voice vote. Infectious diseases and other health conditions still claim the lives of nearly 9 million people each year. To improve the United States' leadership in global health care, Rep. Albio Sires and Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) introduced legislation to promote the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. "U.S. investments in global health research are central components of our foreign policy and help increase national security, strengthen U.S. relations around the world, and reduce infectious diseases. The U.S. has a legacy of leadership in global health research over the years and USAID's work has helped for advancements towards an HIV and AIDS free generation, preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and preventable infectious diseases," stated Congressman Sires. "I am proud to sponsor this legislation with Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, and grateful for the support of my colleagues in passing this bill. I look forward to H.R. 2241 now being brought before the Senate for consideration." Specifically, H.R. 2241 will provide the oversight needed to gain a clearer picture of the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) global health research and development. Over the years, research and development projects have greatly expanded at USAID, searching for advancements towards an HIV and AIDS free generation, preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and preventable infectious diseases. H.R. 2241 directs the USAID Administrator to report to Congress on the development and use of global health innovations in USAID programs, projects, and activities, ensuring that taxpayer dollars are being spent in the most efficient and effective ways possible. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) stated, "As the number of fatal infectious disease and other health conditions continue to be a global concern, USAID's role is critical. The research and development of health products will help combat these diseases, especially in areas lacking access to health care. I want to thank Congressman Sires for his leadership in the fight against these fatal diseases. I look forward to continue working with him and our congressional colleagues on this issue." H.R. 2241 currently awaits action in the Senate. Text of H.R. 2241 can be seen here.
12.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires voted to adopt the fiscal year (FY) 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government for FY 2016 and was passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 316 to 113. "This funding measure represents significant progress for hard-working American families," stated Congressman Sires. "I voted in favor of the omnibus because it will bring much needed stability to middle class families across New Jersey. I am also pleased that the omnibus included reauthorization for the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, giving victims and families of 9/11 access to the services they deserve." The bill's investment priorities include $500 million for TIGER grants, $187 million for COPS hiring grants, and a $2 billion increase for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This bill also reauthorizes the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the World Trade Center Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years. In addition, it increases funding for critical programs that assist American families, including the Child Care Development Block Grant and Head Start. "While not perfect, this bill's passage ends the risk of another unnecessary and damaging government shutdown. Congress has the ability to incite investment, create jobs, and provide stability, but as we have seen, passing measures deadline-to-deadline is not a responsible way to govern. It is my hope that Republicans and Democrats continue to work together in the New Year to pass legislation under regular order rather than passing emergency measures at the last minute," expressed Congressman Sires. The legislation was later passed by the Senate and now awaits President Obama's signature.
12.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Yesterday, H.Res. 536, a resolution condemning attacks on press freedoms in the Western Hemisphere, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, successfully passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 399 to 2. H. Res. 536 was introduced with bipartisan support, with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) serving as the lead Republican cosponsor. "Growing up in Cuba, I saw how the Castro brothers took over the island by ruthlessly silencing anyone that dared to speak out against their undemocratic and unfair tactics. Since then, I have strongly believed that freedom of speech is a fundamental right. Preserving freedom of speech and holding accountable the people and governments who seek to quiet their dissenters should be a top priority when engaging both in our region, and around the globe," stated Congressman Sires. H.Res. 536 supports a free press in Latin America and the Caribbean by condemning violations of press freedom and violence against journalists, bloggers, and individuals exercising their right to freedom of speech. It also urges countries in the region to implement the recommendations to Member States made by the Organization of American States Office of the Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression. Lastly, this resolution urges the United States Agency for International Development and the Department of State to assist the media in closed societies to promote a free press. "I am proud to sponsor this legislation and grateful for the support of my colleagues in passing this resolution. I look forward to working with my colleagues as we continue to engage with our neighbors in the Hemisphere and work to raise up the voices of those who are fighting for free speech," said Rep. Sires. Text of H.Res. 536 can be seen here. Click here to watch the video.
12.09.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - “ Today, H.Res. 536, a resolution condemning attacks on press freedoms in the Western Hemisphere, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, was successfully passed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. H. Res. 536 was introduced with bipartisan support, with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) serving as the lead Republican cosponsor. "Freedom of expression is the keystone that holds any democracy together. As a child in Cuba, I witnessed the deterioration of democracy as the Castro regime took over the island and systematically destroyed all aspects of freedom of speech and expression. Being able to speak without censorship is a right that should never be stifled Working to preserve freedom of speech and pushing back against those who seek to quiet their dissenters should be a top priority when engaging with our neighbors in the region," stated Congressman Sires. H.Res 536 supports a free press in Latin America and the Caribbean by condemning violations of press freedom and violence against journalists, bloggers, and individuals exercising their right to freedom of speech and. It also urges countries in the region to implement the recommendations to Member States made by the Organization of American States Office of the Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression. Lastly, this resolution urges the United States Agency for International Development and the Department of State to assist the media in closed societies to promote a free press. "H. Res. 536 is an important tool to spread awareness about grave abuses against journalists and those seeking to express themselves freely in the Western Hemisphere. As the winds of change begin to sweep the region, it is now more important than ever for the United States to provide a voice to those democratic activists who seek nothing but a better future. Freedom of the press is a key ingredient for a healthy democracy, and I am proud to work closely with my friend and colleague, Albio Sires to defend democratic principles and fight the enemies of freedom," stated Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. "I am proud to sponsor this legislation and grateful for the support of my colleagues in passing this resolution in committee. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring H.Res. 536 for a vote on the House Floor," said Rep. Sires. H.Res. 536 was approved in the committee unanimously and now awaits floor action in the full House of Representatives. Text of H.Res. 536 can be seen here.
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on Donald Trump’s prejudiced, divisive, and incorrect comments regarding Muslims: “Donald Trump’s calls for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States…” is an egregiously offensive and unconstitutional proposal that strikes at the very heart of what makes this nation great. He is trying to cut away at the very freedoms our forefathers fought for when creating the United States of America. I strongly condemn the hateful and bigoted comments Trump has continued to make. With all of the legitimate problems facing Americans today, these intolerant comments are counterproductive to solving our nation’s most challenging security concerns.
12.03.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 22, the Fix America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act by a vote of 359-65. The legislation authorizes highway, transit, freight, safety, and rail programs at $305 billion for five years. Highway funding will be increased by 14.9 percent and transit funding by 18.1 percent from current law. The Congressman was appointed to the conference committee to negotiate the differences between the House and Senate transportation bills, and signed the conference committee report on December 1, 2015. "This transportation bill is not perfect, but it is a good bill that will put Americans back to work and provide much-needed certainty to New Jersey businesses and local transportation agencies," said Congressman Sires. "The FAST Act also saves the High Density/Growing States grant program, eliminated in the House bill, which provides an average $50 million per year to NJ Transit. New Jersey is the most densely populated state in the country and its residents rely heavily on transit for everyday transportation. Maintaining this funding to NJ Transit is vital to ensuring it can build new infrastructure and maintain state of good repair to keep trains moving." New Jersey is estimated to receive $5.29 billion for federal-aid highway funding and $3.1 billion for transit program funding over the next five years. The legislation will create a program to address large freight projects of national and regional significance with dedicated funding and will help create domestic jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements. Additionally, the legislation includes language from Congressman Siresâ€™ Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Suggestions and Successes) Act that will encourage the creation of congestion mitigation plans to expand transportation options for commuters and encourage employers to create and expand commuter benefit programs. "The passage of this bill affirms that Congress still recognizes the importance of crafting intelligent transportation policy and understands the value of investing federal dollars in transportation infrastructure," said Congressman Sires. "I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle continue to work together to pass more bills that create jobs, boost our economy, and enhance Americans' quality of life."
12.03.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding yesterday's shooting in San Bernardino, CA: "Yet again our Nation is coping in the aftermath of an unnecessary act of gun violence that has taken the lives of at least fourteen innocent civilians in San Bernardino, CA. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families during this difficult time, but these alone will not prevent future attacks from occurring. As I have said before, and continue to stress in Washington, the House of Representatives and the Senate cannot continue to stand idly by as the safety of our loved ones and first responders are threatened by continuous acts of violence. I will continue to encourage my colleagues in Congress to come together to acknowledge the persistence of these tragedies and to enact much needed legislation to address mass violence incidents. Though each Member of Congress may not agree on every facet of proposed reforms to gun regulations and mental health services, we can no longer, as a governing body, continue to watch in horror at events that take the lives of innocent men, women, and children without taking legislative action. I implore the leadership of the House of Representatives and the Senate to allow comprehensive legislation addressing mass shootings to come for a vote."
12.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues on the House and Senate surface transportation conference committee in signing the committee report to authorize and fund highway, transit, freight, safety, and rail programs for five years. “While I would have preferred a surface transportation bill with higher funding levels, I am pleased that we have passed a five-year bill that will provide much needed certainty for New Jersey businesses and local transportation agencies,” said Congressman Sires. “I am glad we were able to save $1.6 billion per year in federal funding for the High Density/Growing States transit grant program, eliminated in the House bill, that assists the most transit-dependent states like New Jersey. The yearly $50 million that NJ Transit receives on average from this program is used to advance its capital program needs, maintain state of good repair, and fund preventative maintenance. Without this money, funding for other important transportation needs in New Jersey, like the Amtrak Gateway Project, would be even more difficult to procure.” In New Jersey, the transportation design, construction, and maintenance sectors provide 114,634 full time jobs. An additional 1,715,001 jobs located in New Jersey are dependent on the state’s transportation infrastructure, including those in the tourism, retail sales, and manufacturing sectors. “The end of short-term transportation extensions and the passage of this bill will put people back to work and give local agencies the confidence to plan large-scale, long-term projects,” said Congressman Sires.
11.30.2015	Call for restoration of critical funding for NJT, Gateway tunnel project
11.19.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.Res. 536, supporting the freedom of press in Latin America and the Caribbean. This Resolution condemns violations of press freedom and violence against journalists, bloggers, and individuals exercising their right to freedom of speech. H. Res. 536 was introduced with bipartisan support, with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) serving as the lead Republican cosponsor. “Freedom of expression is the keystone that holds any democracy together. As a child in Cuba, I witnessed the deterioration of democracy as the Castro regime took over the island and systematically destroyed all aspects of freedom of speech and expression. Being able to speak without censorship is a right that should never be stifled. There is a strong connection between a country’s democratic values and the freedoms afforded to their press. Working to preserve freedom of speech and pushing back against those who seek to quiet their dissenters should be a top priority when engaging with our neighbors in the region,” stated Congressman Sires. In recent years, many organizations dedicated to freedom of speech and advancing civil societies have been trying to bring attention to the deterioration of press freedom in Latin America. There are numerous reports confirming that states have harassed and fined the media, shut down their operations, and even physically attacked journalists who are trying to expose the state-sponsored crackdown against peaceful political dissenters. In some countries, drug trafficking organizations and gangs operate with impunity and are able to silence critics without fear of being held accountable. "I am proud to introduce H.Res. 536 with Albio, my friend and colleague. The threats to press freedom in our Hemisphere are a stark reminder of the authoritarian regimes that currently plague Latin America. As Cuba, Ecuador, Nicaragua and Venezuela continue to restrict civil liberties, censor freedom of expression, intimidate journalists and undermine democratic principles, the United States must remain ever vigilant about these abuses in order to provide a voice to those activists on the ground who are being harassed daily. This important resolution recognizes the plight of those journalists, photojournalists, and bloggers who work hard every day to report on the human rights violations and illicit actions of repressive regimes in Latin America,” said Rep. Ros-Lehtinen. H.Res. 536 was also cosponsored by Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Eliot Engel (D-NY) and my partner on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, Chairman Jeff Duncan (R-SC).
11.18.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the passage of H.Res. 524, Condemning in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks in Paris, France, on November 13, 2015, that resulted in the loss of at least 129 lives. “I am shocked and saddened by the vicious terrorist attacks that took place in Paris this past weekend. These attacks are unfortunately another example of how ISIL-affiliated extremists will stop at nothing to terrorize people all over the world. The senseless targeting of innocent men, women, and children is a cowardly tactic and the U.S. must stand with our allies to combat such violence. My condolences go out to the families and loved ones of the victims. Today we stand shoulder to shoulder with our French allies and are committed to finding all those who were responsible for this attack and bringing them to justice.” H.Res. 524 was passed unanimously on November 17, 2015.
11.06.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on his appointment to serve on a conference committee to complete a final Highway Bill agreement: “I am honored to be selected to participate in this important conference to negotiate the differences between the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act and the Senate DRIVE Act,” said Congressman Sires. “While I am pleased that both bills authorize highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for six years, I am concerned with language contained in the House bill that would threaten crucial transit funds in New Jersey. Our Nation and our region’s transportation infrastructure are in dire need of investment, but the funding levels authorized by both Senate and House bills are not adequate to address these needs. With a last-minute amendment attached to the House bill, New Jersey and its neighboring states are at risk of losing critical funding that invests in our urban transit systems. Investing in our transportation infrastructure creates jobs, boosts our economy, and enhances our quality of life, and I look forward to addressing these important issues during the conference.” The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 363-64 on November 5, 2015.
11.05.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, H.R. 2241, the Global Health Innovation Act, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, was successfully passed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Each year, millions of people in the developing world die of infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. To improve the United States’ leadership in global health care, my colleague Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and I introduced legislation to promote the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems.” H.R. 2241, the Global Health Innovation Act, is a bill that will provide the oversight needed to gain a clearer picture of the United States Agency for International Development’s (USAID) global health research and development. Over the years, research and development projects have greatly expanded at USAID, searching for advancements towards an HIV and AIDS free generation, preventable maternal and childhood deaths, and preventable infectious diseases. “The Global Health Innovation Act supports a long-term program to develop much needed health technologies such as safe injection devices, rapid diagnostics for diseases, technologies for safe delivery, and other innovative health solutions. Global health research and development has expanded substantially over the years at USAID. This legislation is an effort to ensure USAID’s research and development activities reflect their goals and priorities. This report asks them to provide clarity on their goals and metrics to better understand their work. I am proud to sponsor this legislation and grateful for the support of my colleagues in passing this bill in committee. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring H.R. 2241 for a vote on the House Floor.” H.R. 2241 was approved in the committee unanimously and now awaits floor action in the full House of Representatives. Text of H.R. 2241 can be seen here.
11.05.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on the passage of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. The bipartisan, long-term reauthorization bill will fund highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects. "I am pleased that this transportation reauthorization will provide $325 billion to invest in our Nation's transportation infrastructure and give states the certainty that follows long-term federal investment," said Congressman Sires. "Although I would have preferred a bill with higher funding levels to address our Nation's outdated crumbling infrastructure, I am satisfied with many aspects of the bill." The legislation maintains current funding levels for highway programs, increases bus funding by almost 40% to reverse significant cuts in the last transportation reauthorization, increases railway-highway grade crossing funding by $5 million per year, and continues current funding levels for the Transportation Alternatives Program. The legislation will create a program to address large freight projects of national and regional significance with dedicated funding and will help create domestic jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements. Additionally, the bill creates new performance measures to make smarter investments that increase access to jobs in low-income communities. "I am especially pleased that this legislation includes language from my Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Suggestions and Successes) Act," said Congressman Sires. "The inclusion of this language in the transportation bill will expand transportation options for commuters in New Jersey and across the country and encourage employers to create and expand commuter benefit programs." The language derived from the Commute LESS Act will provide a better connection between transportation planners, employers, and federal transportation dollars. It will also provide employers with the proper tools and resources to provide their employees with real alternatives; such as rideshare and telework programs or providing shuttle services to connect business parks with transit stations. Congressman Sires introduced H.R. 200, the Commute LESS Act, at the beginning of the 114th Congress. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 363-64. The House and Senate will establish a conference committee to negotiate the differences between the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 and the Senate DRIVE Act.
11.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires, joined by 48 of his colleagues urged President Obama to protect the vulnerable women and children being detained at Mexico's Southern Border. This time last year thousands of unaccompanied children from Central America fleeing violence, forced gang recruitment, and sexual assault came to the U.S. in hopes of protection. This year, apprehensions at our border have decreased, but apprehensions at Mexico's southern border have sky rocketed. Since July 2014, apprehensions of Central Americans in Mexico increased by 70 percent over the previous year. "As the Government of Mexico continues with efforts to try and secure their southern border, we need to find ways to more effectively assist them in continuing to build the institutional capacity of its migration management and protection agencies. There have unfortunately been numerous reports of corruption leading to extortion, kidnapping, trafficking, and other crimes against migrants.â" The Northern Triangle countries of El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras are among the most violent in the world. Honduras and El Salvador have the highest and second highest homicide rates in the world. The staggering rates of homicides in these countries can surpass 40 murders a day. The combination of unprecedented violence, forced gang recruitment against children, and poor economic conditions have forced desperate families to flee in hopes of giving their children a chance at a better life. The Mexican government is working hard to handle the influx but is unprepared for this spike, having just 15 asylum adjudicators for 100,000 people in need. "My colleagues and I are urging President Obama to use assistance the U.S. government already provides to Mexico to focus on addressing the institutional weaknesses within the agencies responsible for migration enforcement and protection in Mexico in order to ensure that Mexico's migration laws are enforced in a way that upholds Mexico's international commitments and our shared values." A copy of the letter may be seen here.
10.26.2015	Replacement is central to Gateway Project
10.20.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s announcement of its plans to implement a mandatory recreational drone registry: "I am encouraged by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s announcement of its plans to implement a mandatory recreational drone registry. The recent surge in incidents involving drones disrupting air traffic is alarming; the FAA has stated that pilots are reporting over 100 close encounters per month. As recreational drones become cheaper and more readily available, these incidents will continue to increase. This new requirement for recreational drone users to register their aircraft is a good first step towards ensuring the safety of our airspace by giving the FAA the ability to track dangerous drone users. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have advocated for the consideration of provisions that would further ensure the safety of our airspace in the FAA Reauthorization Act, including a mandatory recreational drone registration, inclusion of civil penalties for recreational users who endanger the safety of the national airspace, and consideration of requiring geofencing technology be installed in recreational drones to impose geographical limits on their movement. As the Committee continues work on this legislation, I will continue advocating for measures to ensure the safety of our airspace." You can read Congressman Sires' recent letter to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leadership regarding drone use here.
10.02.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding yesterday's school shooting in Roseburg, Oregon: "I am deeply saddened to once again offer my condolences to the families and friends who lost loved ones in yesterday's tragic shooting in Roseburg, Oregon at Umpqua Community College. Last night, President Obama spoke before the nation and reminded us that shootings such as these have become far too common. He stated: "Somehow this has become routine. The reporting is routine. My response here at this podium ends up being routine. The conversation in the aftermath of it. We've become numb to this. We talked about this after Columbine and Blacksburg, after Tucson, after Newtown, after Aurora, after Charleston. It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to inflict harm on other people to get his or her hands on a gun." "I agree with the President. We are the only advanced nation in the world that witnesses gun violence with such alarming regularity. While I support and respect the 2nd Amendment, we as Americans must work hand-in-hand to enact and enforce sensible regulations to reduce the tragic gun violence that has become all too common. We must explore every possibility to make our schools, our movie theaters, our places of worship, our places of employment, and our communities at large safe. The time has long since passed to have a meaningful discussion about gun control legislation. I thank those who acted with courage in the wake of this tragedy, and pray for those now facing such unimaginable loss. Now I call upon my colleagues in Congress to enact comprehensive regulations that will ensure guns are only obtained lawfully by responsible individuals."
09.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the vote on the approval of the nuclear agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon: "I voted against approving the proposed nuclear agreement with Iran that is set to go into force on September 17, 2015. Iran has spent decades evading international sanctions, promoting terror in the region, and violently oppressing its own people. I am concerned that if the proposed agreement is made official, hardliners within the Iranian regime may hinder its implementation. Iran is also able to stall international inspectors for 24 days before allowing them into undeclared suspected nuclear sites. Furthermore, this agreement will release money to the Iranian regime, and they have made their goal of expanding influence in the Middle East clear. Iran is the number one state-sponsor of terrorism and I am extremely concerned about what an influx of cash would mean for our allies in the region. Most importantly, the time frame of the deal is too short and it is unclear what will happen to Iran's nuclear program after the initial pressure to comply dissipates and Iran is allowed to enhance its nuclear and weapons capabilities. Since the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action was announced, I have participated in numerous hearings, meetings, and briefings regarding the state of negotiations and specific aspects of the deal. Additionally, I listened to the testimonies of the Secretaries of State, Treasury, and Energy testified as they outlined details of the agreement before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. After much thought, I remain unconvinced that this deal is the best path forward to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon."
09.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the conviction and sentencing of Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo López: "Sentencing Leopoldo López to 13 years in a military prison is an unjust and politically motivated stunt by Maduro in his quest to continue to silence pro-democracy leaders in Venezuela. With elections looming in Venezuela, Maduro is clamping down on the democratic principles that the Venezuelan people have been fighting, and dying for. It is worth noting that the United States is not alone in its condemnation of Maduro's defenseless actions. The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention found López's detention arbitrary in October 2014 and demanded his immediate release. Similar statements have been echoed by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, UN Committee Against Torture, the former Secretary-General of the Organization of American States JosÃ© Miguel Insulza, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, Peruvian President Ollanta Humala, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, the European Union, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, and the New York Times and Washington Post Editorial Boards. I join these international leaders in condemning Maduro's blatant disregard for the basic tenants of a free society and urge Maduro to overturn the charges against Leopoldo immediately."
09.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on the 14th anniversary of the attacks that took place on September 11, 2001: "September 11, 2001 is a day that I will never forget as I watched the second tower fall from across the Hudson River. Thinking back on that day I feel immense sadness, but pride in the response that came from the courage of our first responders. We will always remember and honor the victims and their families from that tragic September day. Today, Congress can do more than reflect on the anniversary of the worst terror attack on American soil, we can take concrete steps to support our heroes by passing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1786). This bill would reauthorize and fully fund the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program and the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund, which is set to begin to expire later this year. These programs provide long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation for those thousands of first responders and others exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero who are now sick and in need of treatment and compensation. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center were not just an attack on New York City, but on our entire nation and we have the responsibility to care for those who served our nation in its time of need. "
07.31.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the proposed nuclear agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon: "I am opposed to the current proposed nuclear agreement with Iran, I do not feel the agreement will prevent them from acquiring a nuclear weapon. The Secretaries of State, Treasury, and Energy testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee earlier this week, but I am still very doubtful. Iran has spent decades evading international sanctions, promoting terror in the region, and violently oppressing its own people. I am concerned that if the proposed agreement is made official, hardliners within the Iranian regime may hinder its implementation. Most importantly, the time frame of the deal is too short and it is unclear what will happen to Iranâ€™s nuclear program after the initial pressure to comply dissipates and Iran is allowed to enhance its nuclear and weapons capabilities. In the coming months, I will continue to meet with constituents, experts, and our allies in the region, but I am not convinced that this is in the best interest of our national security."
07.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ This week, Congressman Sires voted in favor of several pieces of legislation critical to assisting New Jersey veterans, homeowners, and those affected by Superstorm Sandy. On July 13, 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 208, the Superstorm Sandy Relief Act, which would improve the Small Business Administration's (SBA) disaster lending initiative to give firms impacted by Hurricane Sandy the opportunity to reapply for a disaster loan from the agency. After Superstorm Sandy, many New Jersey businesses fought delays and red tape when trying to secure emergency loans from the SBA, and this legislation would give local businesses another chance to apply for assistance. H.R. 208 was passed unanimously by voice vote. "I am glad that Congress has voted to support local businesses affected by Hurricane Sandy by providing them with a much needed opportunity for disaster assistance. Hundreds of New Jersey residents are still dealing with the aftermath of the storm, and it is critical that we ensure the Small Business Administration does a better job helping small businesses following catastrophes in the future," stated Congressman Sires. On July 14, 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 251, the Homes for Heroes Act of 2015, which aims to prevent low-income veterans and their families from becoming homeless. This legislation specifically establishes a Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs and requires an annual report on veterans' homelessness be submitted to Congress, so that legislators may address the coordination of services for homeless veterans between the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA), as well as prevent veterans from falling into homelessness. H.R. 251 was passed by a vote of 412 - 1. "Just as the military pledges to leave no soldier behind on the battlefield, we must leave no veteran behind when they return home," said Congressman Sires. "We need to remain devoted to providing for those who have served selflessly in our defense, and ensuring our veterans have a roof over their head must remain a top priority." Finally, on July 14, 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1047, the Housing Assistance Efficiency Act, which aims to remove a layer of red tape that will save money and allow people to get housing assistance more quickly. Specifically, this legislation would require HUD to conduct reallocation of funds just once a year, allowing HUD employees to provide more human resources towards providing better service to constituents, as well as permanently allow non-profits to administer rental assistance through HUD's Continuum of Care program the assistance, giving certainty to the system and those who rely on it. H.R. 1047 was passed unanimously by voice vote. H.R. 208, H.R. 251, and H.R. 1047 now await action in the Senate.
07.16.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding the 11 commercial flights that reported lasers directed at their aircrafts as they flew over New Jersey last night: "I am very concerned by the increasing trend of handheld lasers being pointed at aircrafts. Reports of aircraft laser illuminations have risen sharply. These incidents, many of which are conducted without malicious intent, can have unintentional, dangerous consequences. When pointed at the cockpit of an airplane, lasers have the ability to temporarily blind the pilot, leading to safety concerns for both the pilot and the passengers they are transporting. This dangerous act was made a federal crime in the Federal Aviation Administration Modernization and Reform Act. I will be sending a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration asking them to follow up with the results of their investigation of these eleven incidents. Ensuring the safety of our airline pilots is vital to maintaining a safe and effective aviation system.â"
07.14.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the proposed nuclear agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon: "The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action announced by the P5+1 earlier this morning represents two years of intense negotiations and a decade of international pressure and sanctions that led us to this agreement. While I support efforts to pursue a peaceful path to curb Iran's nuclear ambitions, I am deeply skeptical that the proposed agreement will actually prevent them from acquiring a nuclear weapon. Iran has spent decades evading international sanctions, promoting terror in the region, and violently oppressing its own people. Any proposed deal with Iran must include the most intrusive inspections regime to verify that Iran is compliant with the agreement and unable to flout the parameters undetected. I have concerns regarding the enforcement measures within the proposal and the international community's ability to ensure Iran is playing by the rules. Furthermore, it is unclear what will happen to Iran's nuclear program after the initial pressure to comply dissipates and Iran is allowed to enhance its nuclear and weapons capabilities. In the coming days and weeks, I will carefully review this agreement and see how it measures up against the claims that its implementation will cut off Iran's pathway to a bomb."
07.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Administration's decision to open an American Embassy in Havana: "This is a dangerous and premature action. Before any consideration was given to opening an American Embassy in Havana and allowing the Castro regime to open an Embassy in Washington, D.C., the Administration should insist that Cuba return the FBI's number one terrorist, Joanne Chesimard, alongside the countless U.S. fugitives hiding in Cuba. Trust must be earned. It is not just given away. The Cuban regime forfeited that privilege over 50 years ago and has done nothing since to garner the trust of the Cuban people or the international community. The Cuban regime has continuously tried to circumvent international norms by engaging with questionable state actors like North Korea and Venezuela, in violation of U.N. sanctions. Even more troubling is that the U.S.' Defense Intelligence Agency was penetrated by a Cuban spy, Ana Montes, who operated undetected for an astonishing 16 years until detained in 2001. I do not agree with the direction the Administration has taken in regards to Cuba policy and implore them to stop continuously conceding to all of the Cuban regime's demands until more significant steps are taken to address the gross human rights violations and the plight of the Cuban people." Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 114th Congress.
06.26.2015	(Washington, D.C.) -“ Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding today's Supreme Court decision on Obergefell v. Hodges: "I am pleased that the Supreme Court ruled today 5-4 to grant marriage equality to gay and lesbian couples across the country. While 35 states, including New Jersey, had already recognized same-sex couples' right to marry, today's decision that states cannot ban same-sex marriage is a huge step forward in the fight for equality for all Americans. Discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people is intolerable, and I am glad that the Supreme Court ruled in favor of equal justice under the law. Today's decision is a victory for equality and for love; I extend my congratulations to LGBT couples across New Jersey and the United States."
06.25.2015	(Washington, D.C) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding today's Supreme Court decision on King v. Burwell: "I am relieved that the Supreme Court ruled today 6-3 to uphold subsidies for 6.4 million Americans to ensure that they continue to receive affordable health insurance. Prior to the decision, 34 states, including New Jersey, were at risk of losing access to premium tax credits when purchasing health coverage on the federal marketplace. This is now the second time that the Affordable Care Act has been upheld by the Supreme Court. The decision reaffirms that the law is working in providing access to health care for millions of families and middle-class Americans who would not otherwise be able to obtain affordable coverage. Now the 172,000 New Jerseyans who were at risk of losing financial assistance can rest easy knowing that they will continue to have access to affordable and comprehensive health care."
05.12.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Last week, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.R. 2241, the Global Health Innovation Act of 2015, to encourage the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. This bill will require the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to submit a report on the development and use of global health innovations at the Agency. "Each year, millions of people in the developing world die of infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The Global Health Innovation Act supports a long-term program to develop much needed health technologies such as safe injection devices, rapid diagnostics for diseases, technologies for safe delivery, and other innovative health solutions," said Congressman Sires. Through USAID, the federal government is addressing the need for global health technologies by facilitating public-private partnerships to develop affordable and appropriate health technologies. The critical research and development of global health technologies has facilitated the development of life-saving technologies saving countless lives across the globe. "I am proud to support this legislation, which will help effectively address health needs around the world. As USAID continues to expand their research and development of these technologies, it is important that Congress continue to play its important role of oversight in ensuring the Agency's investments make clear progress towards its stated goals," said Sires.
05.06.2015	Update of nearly 20-year old plan critical to managing NJ’s water resources
04.21.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, New Jersey Representatives Albio Sires and Bill Pascrell, Jr. urged the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to adopt recommendations made by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) regarding the Department of Transportation's proposed rule on enhanced railroad tank car standards for trains carrying high-hazard flammable material in addition to expediting the rulemaking. Trains carrying high hazardous material have increased significantly in New Jersey and the rest of the United States due to the increased production of crude and shale oil nationwide. New Jersey is home to 2,400 miles of freight rail lines that run through some of the state's most densely populated areas, including neighborhoods and business districts. As rail transportation of hazardous materials continues to increase, so does the amount of accidents that occur. On July 6, 2013, a train derailment in Lac-Megantic, Quebec resulted in a crude oil fed fire that killed forty-seven people. "We have witnessed too many accidents involving these outdated tank cars to continue to sit back and do nothing," said Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ-08). "The people of New Jersey and all Americans deserve the assurance that our freight transportation systems are safe." NTSB has stated that a major problem with some of the railcars carrying high hazard flammable material today is that they are easily punctured, thus vulnerable to igniting a fire. Such was the case in the Lac-Megantic incident. The proposed rule will require a new design for tank cars carrying these high hazard materials. Reps. Sires and Pascrell asked OMB to include a provision in the rule that would require an aggressive schedule for existing tank cars to be retrofitted to the new standards. "After too many delays, it is imperative that the Administration not only finalize new rail tank car safety standards quickly, but make the new rules as tough as the National Transportation Safety Board recommends," stated Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-9). "Residents in Bergen County and other communities along the path of these crude oil shipments should be able to trust that the federal government is doing everything in its power to address safety and security of hazardous materials traveling by rail." A copy of the letter may be seen here.
04.14.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the Administration's decision to remove Cuba from the State Sponsor of Terror List: "This is a dangerous and concerning action that I feel the Administration has prematurely conceded to consider. Before any consideration was given to removing Cuba from the State Sponsor of Terrorism List, Cuba should, for its part, return the FBI's number one terrorist, Joanne Chesimard, alongside the countless U.S. fugitives hiding in Cuba. The Cuban regime claims offense and its innocence in regards to its designation on the State Sponsor of Terrorism List. But the Cuban regime's actions have been anything but innocent. The Cuban regime has a long and sordid history of supporting anti-U.S. intelligence efforts and colluding with questionable state actors like Russia, North Korea, and Venezuela whose governments espouse anti-Americanism and pose a security concern to either their neighbors or their own people. The U.S.' Defense Intelligence Agency was penetrated by a Cuban spy, Ana Montes, undetected for an astonishing 16 years until detained in 2001. Most recently, in July 2013, Panamanian authorities seized a North Korean freighter declared to be carrying 10,000 tons of sugar from Cuba only to discover a hidden cargo of Soviet made anti-missile system components, fighter jet parts and engines. And in July 2014 a United Nations panel of experts determined that both the shipment and transaction between Cuba and North Korea were in violation of U.N. sanctions. Trust must be earned. It is not just given away. The Cuban regime forfeited that privilege over 50 years ago and has done nothing since to garner the trust of the Cuban people or the international community. Removing Cuba from the State Sponsor of Terror list allows the Cuban regime to do business with American banks; filling the bank accounts of the Castro brothers while they continue to oppress the Cuban people. I do not agree with the direction the Administration has taken in regards to Cuba policy and implore the Administration to stop continuously conceding to all of the Cuban regime's demands until more significant steps are taken to address the gross human rights violations and the plight of the Cuban people." Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 114th Congress.
03.26.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Yesterday, Congressman Sires voted against the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Republican Budget Resolution (H.Con.Res. 27) submitted by Representative Tom Price (R-GA) because of its misplaced priorities. The Republican budget ends the Medicare guarantee, repeals the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and guts investments in education and infrastructure. "The misguided Republican budget fails to address the challenges facing hard-working families; instead, it provides tax breaks for special interests and the ultra-wealthy. It slashes funding for programs that help put food on the table for millions of families by turning food stamps (the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program/SNAP) into a block grant program; makes it harder for students to go to college by cutting student loan programs and Pell Grants; and takes away quality, affordable health coverage from more than 16 million people who were previously uninsured," stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, the Republican budget fails to lift the sequester on domestic discretionary spending in FY 2016 and slashes investments that are necessary to grow our economy, like education, infrastructure, and innovation. In addition, it ends higher education tax credits and reduces the child tax credit in order to cut tax rates for millionaires. H.Con.Res. 27 also ends the Medicare guarantee by turning Medicare into a voucher program and increasing costs for seniors. Furthermore, the budget provides no solution to funding the current shortfall in the federal transportation fund, resulting in construction slowdowns that would begin this summer. In contrast, Congressman Sires supported the Democratic Alternative Budget Resolution offered by Representative Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) that focuses on putting Americans back to work by lifting the sequester and investing in transportation repair and modernization. Additionally, the Democratic Alternative would close corporate tax loopholes and expand low and middle-income tax incentives while increasing education investments like early childhood education and Pell Grants. Finally, the Democratic Alternative would preserve the Medicare guarantee, maintain Medicaid services for seniors, protect the ACA, and preserve SNAP. "The Democratic proposal would protect the middle class, seniors, and low-income Americans while investing in our future. Unfortunately, the budget plan passed by the Republicans is a disaster for seniors, families, and workers," stated Congressman Sires.
03.04.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - On March 4, 2015, the House of Representatives voted for H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, by a vote of 316-101. The bill would provide $7.2 billion for passenger rail over the next four years, including $1.9 billion to improve Amtrak routes that run through New Jersey in the Northeast Corridor. It would also provide $1.2 billion for intercity passenger rail grants, half of which would be dedicated to the Northeast Corridor. "This legislation addresses much-needed infrastructure improvements along the Northeast Corridor that many New Jerseyans use," said Congressman Sires. "In 2014, the Northeast Corridor saw a ridership of 11.6 million; its highest ridership year on record. As ridership continues to grow, the necessity to invest in rail infrastructure becomes more vital. I am pleased that this bill will provide 1.9 billion dollars for capital improvements along the Northeast Corridor. This money will assist states with the opportunity to grow their passenger rail services, which in turn will help provide more affordable transportation options." H.R. 749 improves the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing loan program by including provisions to expedite the Department of Transportation's consideration of applications in addition to applying Buy America requirements to the program. "I am a strong supporter of the Buy America provisions in the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing loan program that will ensure that American railroads are built with American iron and steel. In addition to providing the capital and resources needed to bring the American rail system into the 21st Century, this legislation will help meet the growing demand for more cost-efficient and environmentally friendly means of transportation."
03.03.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahuâ€™s address before a joint session of Congress: "Prime Minister Netanyahu's speech presented a compelling argument; reminding us all of the grave threat we face as Iran continues its quest to acquire a nuclear bomb. Iran's policies in the Middle East region, particularly towards groups that support violence and the prevention of an Israeli-Arab peace process, are perpetuating instability. Iran's financial and material support of various militant groups poses a clear threat to American interests abroad. As we examine U.S. policy towards Iran, I believe we must take smart, clear steps towards addressing our concerns with the Iranian regime and protecting our national security abroad. I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will put partisan politics aside and come together to curb Iran's efforts to develop nuclear weapons and continue to destabilize the region.â"
03.03.2015	(Washington, DC) - U.S. Senators Bob Menendez and Cory Booker, as well as Congressmen Frank Pallone (N.J.-06), Bill Pascrell (N.J.-09), Albio Sires (N.J.-08) and Donald Payne, Jr. (N.J.-10), today announced a combined $458,635,200 in federal Sandy relief grants from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) to rebuild and make New Jersey's transit network more resilient to future natural disasters. "Two years after Sandy, much work is still left to do to rebuild and make our state more resilient," said Sen. Menendez. "These grant awards help keep our state on its path to full recovery from Superstorm Sandy and ensure we come back stronger to withstand the next storm." "New Jersey's transportation infrastructure is critical to our state's economy," said Sen. Booker. "This federal funding is important to the rebuilding of NJ Transit and Port Authority infrastructure that was damaged during Superstorm Sandy, making it stronger and more resilient. Improving vital arteries such as these are necessary for growing the economy and supporting jobs throughout our state." The funding announced today is part of a $3.7 Billion Second Round of Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Sandy relief for public transit needs allocated in May 2013. - $147,086,600 New Jersey Transit (NJT) To fund the replacement and raising of signal and communications systems - $311,548,600 Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) To further fund the Salt Mitigation Program in the PATH tunnels "A strong transportation system is critical to our economy and to our daily lives here in New Jersey," said Rep. Pallone. "As we continue to rebuild in the years after Superstorm Sandy, we have a unique opportunity to improve the public infrastructure in our state so that it is stronger and able to withstand future storms. These grants will allow for significant improvements that will help modernize our infrastructure and keep us moving." "Repairing our mass transit system is vital to the thousands of commuters that help drive New Jersey's economy," said Rep. Bill Pascrell. "These federal funds will help ensure New Jersey Transit works better, the PATH tubes are rebuilt stronger, commuters can ingress and egress at their local stations, and allow our state to be more resilient to future disasters. We simply can't afford to leave these critical transportation networks unprotected to future disasters." "As we saw with Sandy, even our most robust infrastructure is fallible. Investing in resiliency projects increases community preparedness so that when the next storm hits, our infrastructure will be strong enough to weather the storm," Rep. Sires said. "Over two years have passed since Sandy devastated New Jersey, and we still have a long way to go to recover," said Rep. Payne, Jr. "Thousands of claims from Sandy victims still have not been resolved, and many New Jersey families remain displaced. These grants are critical to continued recovery efforts to enhance our transit infrastructure and strengthen our communities against future disasters." The President signed the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations bill into law two years ago, bringing the total Sandy aid enacted by Congress to $60.2 billion. The funding package included federal aid to help homeowners, businesses, and communities recover, and resources to rebuild coastal, transportation, and water infrastructure
02.20.2015	Safeguards personal information while enhancing cybersecurity
02.18.2015	Measure would silence nuisance choppers, enhance public safety
02.17.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement concerning the beheading of 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians by a Libyan militant group: "I am shocked and saddened by the barbaric beheadings of Coptic Christians kidnapped by a Libyan militant group. This deplorable act of violence is yet another example of the escalation of violence against Egypt's Coptic Christians. Their actions epitomize the definition of evil and remind us of the constant struggle we face against terrorism. These senseless murders are unfortunately another example of how ISIL-affiliated terrorists will stop at nothing to indiscriminately terrorize everyone around them. I offer my condolences to the families of victims who perished in this barbaric attack and call on leaders in the region to come together to defeat these militant groups committed to inciting fear and terrorism around the world."
01.28.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires and Senator Bob Menendez reintroduced the Collaborative Academic Research Efforts (CARE) for Tourette Syndrome Act to expand and further coordinate efforts towards research for Tourette syndrome. This bill would promote activities at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) aimed at combating and diagnosing Tourette syndrome. "Tourette syndrome continues to be a misunderstood disorder that is too often stigmatized, I am eager to reintroduce legislation that will work towards helping the lives of those affected by this syndromeâ" stated Congressman Sires. "While symptoms can be suppressed overtime, too many individuals, particularly children, face the everyday challenge of trying to manage tics whether at school or in various social settings. Expanded and collaborative research can teach us more about the cause and treatment of the disorder to help improve the lives of those individuals impacted by Tourette syndrome." "Today, we reintroduce the CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act to reinforce our commitment of increasing awareness and attention to combat this condition," said Senator Menendez. "This legislation aims to expand our research efforts into this commonly misdiagnosed and misunderstood disease, allowing us to provide families and individuals with TS the security and peace of mind they desperately need, knowing we will continue to build on the progress already made at research centers like the one at Rutgers University, to better the lives of those it affects. I look forward to working together with both the House and the Senate to find solutions that ensure this important bill is able to become law." Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics. The NIH estimates that 200,000 Americans suffer from the most severe form of Tourette syndrome, while as many as one in 100 exhibit milder symptoms such as chronic motor or vocal tics. Although symptoms continue for many through adulthood, the disorder generally peaks in severity during childhood. Specifically, this bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a new system to collect data on Tourette syndrome, including the availability of medical and social services for individuals with Tourette syndrome and their families. It would also instruct the Secretary of HHS to award grants to public or nonprofit private entities to establish new Collaborative Research Centers focused on Tourette syndrome research. Such Centers would be established on a regional basis, and would conduct research, including investigations into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control and treatment of Tourette syndrome.
01.22.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires voted to oppose legislation that would place restrictions on how women with private health insurance can spend their own money when purchasing health insurance. While Congressman Sires voted against the legislation, H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act, was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 242 to 179. "The American people expect Congress to focus on creating jobs and strengthening the middle class, not proposals that roll back health care rights for women. This misconstrued bill will result in millions of women having restricted access to comprehensive health coverage due to limitations placed on what kind of health plans women can purchase for coverage with their own money," stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, H.R. 7 would permanently prohibit the use of federal funds to pay for abortion or abortion coverage and ban individuals and small businesses from receiving federal subsidies and tax credits under the 2010 health care law to purchase health care plans that cover abortions. Due to the Hyde Amendment, federal funding of abortions is currently prohibited and women purchasing plans with abortion coverage in the Health Insurance Marketplace must already use their own private money for such coverage. The legislation would also undermine the District of Columbia's home rule by preventing D.C. from using its own funds to provide abortion services. "The Affordable Care Act is working to provide affordable coverage to millions of Americans mainly because of the premium assistance tax credit. Should this bill become law, women would lose the economic incentive to purchase comprehensive coverage and as a result, their health would be jeopardized and their health care options severely limited," expressed Congressman Sires. H.R. 7 now awaits action in the Senate.
01.21.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires announced that he will continue to serve as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the 114th Congress. As a member of the Committee, he will also serve on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit and the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. In addition, he was newly appointed to serve on the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management as well. Sires has been a member of the Committee since 2008. “I look forward to continuing my work on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,” said Congressman Sires. “Investing in transportation infrastructure creates good American jobs, brings in business, and stimulates our economy.” The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has jurisdiction over all modes of transportation including aviation, bridges, highways, maritime transportation, mass transit, and railroads. Additionally, the Committee has jurisdiction over matters relating to oil spill laws, economic development for economically distressed areas, transportation of hazardous materials, environmental restoration, and projects for flood control. “The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure faces the challenge of passing a bill to reauthorize and invest in critical surface transportation programs set to expire this Spring. As we approach the start of construction season, it is crucial that Republicans and Democrats come together to work on a bill that will give the construction season much-needed certainty. Federal investment in highways, bridges, public transit and passenger rail systems, airport projects, and water infrastructure has significant impacts on job creation at home.”
01.14.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires was selected by his peers on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to serve as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere for the 114th Congress. Congressman Sires previously served as a member of the Subcommittee during his entire tenure in the House of Representatives since 2006. “It is an honor to be selected once again by my colleagues to serve as the lead Democrat on a Subcommittee that oversees a portion of the world that is not only strategically critical for our foreign agenda, but a part of the world that is deeply personal to me and many of my constituents. In my capacity as Ranking Member I look forward to continuing to strengthen relations with our Canadian and Latin American neighbors to ensure the prosperity of the Hemisphere, as well as work with Chairman Duncan to examine the challenges we face in the region,” expressed Congressman Sires. The Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the countries in South America, North America, and the Caribbean. Other Democrats serving under Congressman Sires on the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere include Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY), Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX), Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA), Congressman Alan Grayson (FL), and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL). Congressman Sires was also selected to continue to serve as member of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats.
01.07.2015	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires released the following statement regarding today's terrorist attack in Paris: "I am shocked and outraged by today's terrorist attack on the offices of a French Newspaper, Charlie Hebdo that has killed at least a dozen people. My condolences go out to the families of the victims of this horrific attack. This cowardly act was a direct attack on the freedom of speech and press, a pillar of democratic and free societies. History has shown that freedom of expression trumps violence and fear. Media outlets and journalists have long been targets of violent extremism, but now more than ever we must be diligent in ensuring the security for these environments. Protecting havens of free speech is singularly as important as protecting our airports, roads, and vital infrastructure. Today, we stand in solidarity with France as they seek to find those responsible for this attack and bring them to justice. "
01.06.2015	(Jersey City, N.J) – More than a dozen federal, state and local elected officials, as well as labor advocates, joined at a press conference today calling on the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to withdraw their proposal to eliminate overnight PATH service. The proposed service reduction was released in a report by the Port Authority between the Christmas and New Year’s holiday and claims a $10 million annual savings. However, according to ridership numbers provided by the bi-state agency, as many as 390,000 riders will be impacted annually by the loss of service from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. on weeknights, with hundreds of thousands more affected if weekend overnight service is also eliminated. Attending the press conference at the Grove Street PATH station in Jersey City were: • U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) • U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ8) • N.J. Assembly Speaker Vincent Prieto (D-32) • N.J. Senator Nicholas Sacco (D-32) • N.J. Senator Brian Stack (D-33) N.J. Senator Ron Rice • N.J. Senator Sandra Cunningham (D-31) • Newark Mayor Ras Baraka • Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer • Harrison Mayor James Fife • Weehawken Mayor Richard Turner • Guttenberg Mayor Gerald Drasheff • West New York Mayor Felix Roque • Kearny Mayor Al Santos • East Newark Mayor Joseph Smith • Ken McNamara, President of CWA Local 1037 • Ray Greaves, Chairman of the New Jersey Amalgamated Transit Union State Council • Analilia Mejia, Director of NJ Working Families Alliance. Mayor Fulop, who immediately criticized the measure upon its release, called it one of the worst ideas to come out of the Port Authority in the past six years and said it was further illustration of how out of touch leadership at the agency is with its ridership and the public. “To have this group of more than a dozen elected officials, from the city, state and federal level, all calling on this measure to be withdrawn, speaks volumes,” said Mayor Fulop. “We already saw both houses of the New York and New Jersey legislatures approve bi-partisan reform measures for the Port Authority, and now we have consensus here as well. What will it take for the Port Authority to hear what the public and their elected officials are saying?” In his remarks, Mayor Fulop cited the critical role that the PATH train system and other mass transit has played in economic development of Jersey City and the northern NewJersey region, and how a reduction in service is counterproductive to New Jersey’s economic future. He also pointed out how the measure hurts the most vulnerable commuters, the working-class employees who rely on overnight PATH service to get to and from work. “The fact is that is going to have a huge impact on working families who rely on this service,” said Mayor Fulop. “Whether it is nights, weekdays, or weekends, New Jersey’s future economic growth relies on an increase in mass transportation and PATH service, not a decrease. Instead of reducing operating hours, the Port Authority should be finding ways to add and improve service.” The PATH train system connects New York City with Jersey City, Newark, Harrison and Hoboken and has averaged 73 million annual riders over the past five years, making it one of the most-used systems in the country. According to the Port Authority, from 1 a.m. to 5 a.m. on weeknights, 1,500 people use the PATH service. “The notion of using Port Authority reform as a ‘Trojan Horse’for transit cutbacks is ill-conceived,” said U.S. Senator Menendez. “More than anywhere else in the nation, our region depends on transit for our economic viability and quality of life. As long as the Port Authority is going to charge New Jerseyans $14 to cross its bridges and tunnels, a viable transit alternative is essential.” The bi-state agency, with a 2014 budget of $8.2 billion, states its mission is to “identify and meet the critical transportation infrastructure needs of the bistate region’s businesses, residents, and visitors … while strengthening the economiccompetitiveness of the New York-New Jersey Metropolitan Region.” However, many of the speakers questioned if the Port Authority had lost sight of its mission. “New Jersey’s past, present, and future rely on a transit network that is reliable and affordable,” said U.S. Senator Booker. “It is part of our state’s quality of life and critical to the economic health and viability of our state. It’s clear the PANYNJ has strayed from its original mission and suffers from less than ideal transparency and accountability, which has chipped away at the public’s trust. I’m disappointed that bipartisan reform proposals offered by both the NJ and NY legislatures were vetoed. I have serious concerns about any cutbacks of PATH service, a service many depend on to get to and from work. Access to mass transit is key to the growth we are seeing in some of our Hudson County communities. New Jersey commuters and residents deserve to be heard on this issue before any decisions are final.” Echoing the remarks of Senators Menendez and Booker, Congressman Sires, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee pledged to use his role in Washington to halt any elimination of overnight PATH service. “The 8th Congressional District contains the majority of Port Authority managed properties all of which are used 24 hours a day by hard working New Jersey residents,” said Congressman Sires (D-NJ8). “I am extremely concerned with the report presented to Governors Christie and Cuomo by the special panel of board members of PANYNJ to privatize PATH and suspend overnight services. As a member of the U.S. House Transportation committee, I will work with the local, county, State elected officials and my colleagues in Washington to ensure that the recommendations concerning PATH operations mentioned in the report to Governors Christie and Cuomo do not take place.” The group of elected officials all criticized the proposal, saying the need for reform at the Port Authority was meant to create greater accountability, not limit service and penalize riders. “Port Authority reform was never about cutting rail service for the hard-working people of Hudson County and this region,” said Assembly Speaker Prieto (D-32). “It was about bringing more transparency and accountability to this troubled agency that for far too long has caused headaches for area commuters. I will not stand idle and let the Port Authority cut needed services and inconvenience residents and hurt businesses.” As part of the Port Authority’s proposed 10-year, $27.6 billion capital spending plan announced in February, the agency is moving forward with a $1.5 billion plan to link the PATH train system to Newark Liberty International Airport. “We have more than $2 billion worth of economic development in the pipeline, ranging from the new Prudential skyscrapers in our downtown to new homes in all of our neighborhoods, and residents and workers will be harshly impacted by this move,” said Newark Mayor Baraka. “Vast numbers of Newark residents – late-shift workers, night-shift workers, and college students, depend on PATH to get to and from jobs, classes, and events. Closure of the PATH service at night will also have a terrible impact on Newark Liberty International Airport and its passengers, which is very much a 24/7 facility, with airliners flying in and out from all across the world, at all hours, day and night.” The speakers in attendance all also pointed to the disproportionate economic disadvantage this latest proposal would have on New Jersey. “The terrible idea to cut overnight PATH service needs to be publicly withdrawn from consideration immediately,” said Hoboken Mayor Zimmer. “Even the uncertainty that the Port Authority is not fully committed to 24/7 PATH service puts New Jersey at a competitive disadvantage versus our neighbors across the river who have 24/7 mass transit access within New York City. As a result, our State will lose jobs, economic growth will be undermined, and taxpayers will bear the burden of a significant loss of sales and income tax revenue.”
12.17.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the Administration’s announcement on its shift in policy towards Cuba: “What should be a joyous moment to celebrate the overdue homecoming of Alan Gross today has been marred by the actions undertaken by the Administration to secure his release. The President’s announcement today detailing plans for a loosening of sanctions and initiating discussions to re-establish diplomatic relations with Cuba is naïve and disrespectful to the millions of Cubans that have lived under the Castro’s repressive regime; and the thousands of human rights defenders that have fought tirelessly and at times with their lives to bring about democratic change to Cuba. Any notion that the Administration’s engagement with Cuba will encourage a form of Cuban glasnost is a dangerous miscalculation. Cuba has not changed in 50 years and is unlikely to change if its repressive government is given more room to breathe. In turn, the Administration has risked allowing the Cuban regime to continue its repressive policies towards the Cuban people as it has over the last half century. Now more than ever it will be incumbent upon the Cuban government to uphold the Inter-American Democratic Charter and respect the rule of law, human rights, freedoms of speech and assembly, and proceed with free and fair elections. Moreover, while I may welcome the release of over 50 political prisoners, little has been said for the countless others that remain inside a Cuban prison or the fact that the same 50 plus prisoners freed today could very well be imprisoned again tomorrow for exercising the same human rights of free speech that unjustly placed them inside prison the first time. I am disappointed in the actions taken by the President today. However, it is Congress that must and will ultimately decide if and when the sanctions against Cuba will be lifted.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
12.17.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the release of Alan Gross: “I am relieved that Alan Gross will no longer see the inside of his Cuban prison cell and finally be reunited with his family after five long years of unwarranted imprisonment by the Cuban Government. Let it be clear, however, that his release was by no means a humanitarian gesture. Nothing the Cuban regime does is humanitarian in nature, particularly when it continues to deny the Cuban people basic human rights while utilizing fear, incarceration, and unwarranted force to maintain control. Rather than accepting nothing but the unconditional release of Mr. Gross, the Administration has succumbed to short-sighted pressures to proceed with an unjust and dangerous prisoner exchange of convicted spies. While I am relieved that Mr. Gross will finally be home with his family, I would be remiss not to wonder how the family of murdered New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster feels as his killer, Joanne Chesimard, still roams freely in Cuba. Chesimard is currently listed by the FBI as the number one most wanted terrorist and has been enjoying political asylum in Cuba for 30 years. It is a dangerous precedent to concede and utilize Americans detained abroad as mere pawns for trading. Not only will this be an open invitation for rogue regimes and actors to follow the same playbook, but it potentially places many American lives overseas at risk.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
12.10.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires announced that New Jersey was awarded a Preschool Development Grant by the Department of Education to expand preschool programs in underserved communities across the state. Specifically, New Jersey was awarded $17,498,115 in fiscal year 2014 to support expansion of voluntary, high-quality preschool programs for 4 year olds in high-need communities for children from low-and-moderate income families. “A child’s socioeconomic status should not determine whether they are afforded early learning opportunities. New Jersey has been a leader in its commitment to expand high-quality early education and this grant will assist in implementing the state’s comprehensive strategy to ensure that all children enter kindergarten ready to succeed,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, New Jersey was one of 18 states that will utilize the grant to work with local communities to provide high-quality preschool programs for over 18,000 additional children in the first year of the four year program. To be eligible for a Preschool Development Grant, states must present an ambitious and achievable plan to implement and sustain high-quality preschool programs that can reach and serve additional eligible children in high-need communities. Up to five percent of the Expansion Grant award may be used for state-level infrastructure and quality improvements. “Until Congress can implement legislation that would provide pre-school for all, these Preschool Development Grants are critical in ensuring that local communities are provided with the necessary resources to educate thousands of children that would otherwise not have the opportunity to begin learning at an early age,” stated Congressman Sires. The award announcement was issued as part of the White House Summit on Early Education that brought stakeholders ranging from businesses to educators together to focus on expanding access to early education. ###
12.03.2014	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the fifth year anniversary of Alan Gross’ imprisonment in Cuba: “Today marked the fifth year that former USAID contractor and U.S. citizen Alan Gross has languished in a Cuban prison. Not a day goes by that I do not pray for him and his family to see an end to this unimaginable nightmare. The way by which Mr. Gross, 65 years old today and in ill health, was unwarrantedly detained, falsely tried, and then imprisoned on groundless accusations is a sobering reminder of the Cuban government’s own unabashed practice of utilizing fear, incarceration, and unwarranted force to maintain control over the Cuban people. I am unequivocal in my commitment for the unconditional and expedient release of Mr. Gross. I do, however, implore the Administration to proceed with prudent haste to see to Mr. Gross’ release and avert succumbing to ill-conceived measures that will cast Mr. Gross as a pawn in what would be tantamount to a dangerous game of diplomatic chess. This is neither a game nor should we play into one. Mr. Gross needs be released unconditionally and allowed to come home now.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
11.21.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) issued the below statement regarding President Obama’s executive action on immigration: “Since I was first elected to Congress, I have been fighting for comprehensive immigration reform. Unfortunately, the current majority party has had the best chance in a generation to fix our broken immigration system, but walked away. Now, President Obama, as did his predecessors, is using his legal executive authority to grant relief to millions of families who support themselves and have deep ties to America. Not only will the President’s action allow immigrant families to no longer live in fear, but it will also make the process easier for high skilled immigrant workers, entrepreneurs and graduates to stay and boost our economy. The President's announcement last night sets the country in the right direction, but let's be clear there still is work to be done. As a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus I will continue to work with my colleagues to construct long term policies that are crucial to comprehensive immigration legislation." ###
11.19.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the House Democratic Caucus’ election of Congressman Frank Pallone (D-NJ) as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce: “I offer my sincere congratulations to Congressman Pallone on his election as the top ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Congressman Pallone’s selection by his colleagues reaffirms that the Caucus values seniority. The seniority that Congressman Pallone brings to the leadership of the Democrats on the Committee comes with years of experience of fighting for families not only in New Jersey, but across the country. During his tenure in Congress, Congressman Pallone has used his position on the Energy and Commerce Committee to advocate for access to affordable health care; consumer protections; and environmental safeguards in our communities. As the Energy and Commerce Committee continues to tackle critical issues facing every day Americans, I look forward to Congressman Pallone’s leadership in navigating Democratic principles on the vast variety of issues that will come before the Committee.” ###
11.18.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the murder of four men while worshipping in a Jerusalem synagogue: “I am saddened and outraged by the barbaric events that took the lives of 4 innocent men – 3 of whom were Americans - earlier today in Jerusalem. Attacking worshippers in a synagogue, a place meant for sanctuary and peace, is a cowardly and inexcusable act. “These senseless attacks on innocent men, women, and children must be stopped and all perpetrators must be held accountable. I stand with Israelis all over the globe, condemning these heinous acts, and calling on leaders in the West Bank to stop inciting such violence.”
11.11.2014	On Veterans Day, we salute the brave men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice, and remember those who have served our country around the world in the name of freedom and democracy. On this solemn holiday, we gather together across this grateful nation to honor their sacrifice and to remember that our country is safe thanks to those who serve and have served. Today, we renew our commitments to the more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families, and the 22 million veterans across our country. We have an obligation to care for our service members when they’re abroad and when they come home. We must remain devoted to strengthening quality health care for veterans, and must continue to send returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans to college under the New GI Bill. Just as the military pledges to leave no soldier behind on the battlefield, we will leave no veteran behind when they return home. The observance of Veterans Day honors America’s veterans for their patriotism, love of country, and willingness to serve. This Veterans Day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families, and our veterans.
10.17.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding Venezuela’s election to the United Nations Security Council: “The election of Venezuela as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council is a great disappointment. Venezuela, a country whose own intransigence and disrespect for democracy, human rights, and freedom of assembly are antithetical to the principles of the UN Charter, is sorely underserving of such a coveted and solemn responsibility upon whose task is maintaining the peace and security of the world. The fact that Venezuela was the sole candidate on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Countries in the United Nations (GRULAC) was disconcerting as it demonstrated a step back and blind disregard for democracy and human rights in the hemisphere. It is unfortunate that the GRULAC group of nations chose to hide behind a veil of procedural correctness whereby a nation whose leadership has a penchant for abusing democratic institutions and the rule of law is allowed to simply have its turn. At a time when the world is facing an increasing number of threats, it will be incumbent upon all member states, and in particular the GRULAC group, to put Venezuela to task and compel it to comport itself with the dignity and seriousness the responsibilities of the Security Council demands.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
09.25.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires announced grant awards for Jersey City and Newark through the Department of Justice’s COPS program (CHP) to hire additional police officers to patrol the streets of Jersey City and Newark. Specifically, $1,875,000 was granted to Jersey City to hire 15 officers and the same amount was allotted to Newark to hire 15 officers as well. “Both Jersey City and Newark will benefit from the opportunity to increase the size of their respective police departments in order to continue to keep neighborhoods safe. Improved security and lower crime rates for two of New Jersey’s largest cities will not only bring peace of mind to residents, but also attract visitors and business to the area,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, CHP provides funding to address the full-time sworn officer needs of state and local agencies nationwide. CHP grants go directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. This year’s CHP grants provide 75 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions or rehired officers who have been laid off as a result of local budget cuts. ###
09.18.2014	(WASHINGTON D.C.) – U.S. Senators Robert Menendez and Cory Booker (both D-NJ) today joined members of New Jersey’s Congressional delegation to announce the awarding of a combined $1,488,559,836 in Sandy resiliency grants to repair and fortify the state’s transit system, which had sustained significant damage. “New Jersey took it on the chin during Superstorm Sandy,” said Sen. Menendez. “The record storm surge flooded out train stations, destroyed rail yards and crippled our public transit system that millions rely on everyday to get around. Sandy taught us that we must rebuild our infrastructure to withstand future disasters. This critical federal funding will help ensure the Garden State recovers from Sandy, stronger and better than before the storm.” “Our state’s economy depends on having reliable mass transportation. These grants move New Jersey another step closer toward full recovery from Superstorm Sandy and are essential to building a transportation infrastructure that can withstand future storms,” Sen. Booker said. “I look forward to continuing my work with Sen. Menendez and New Jersey’s Congressional delegation to bring these vital resources home.” The Senators worked closely with members of the state’s House delegation to secure the following Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grants: New Jersey Transit – $1,276,022,811.00 total $88,903,190.00 for Train Controls - Wayside Signals, Power & Communication Resiliency Project $184,493,910.00 for Delco Lead Safe Haven Storage and Re-Inspection Facility Project $409,764,814.00 for N.J. TransitGrid $446,312,465.00 for N.J. Transit Raritan River Drawbridge Replacement Project $146,548,432.00 for Hoboken Long Slip Flood Protection. Port Authority of New York and New Jersey – $212,537,025.00 total $16,815,975.00 for Concrete Sea Wall East of PATH Harrison Car Maintenance Facility $14,861,400.00 for Harrison Car Maintenance Facility Automatic Flood Barrier $40,200,000.00 for Penn-Moynihan Station Complex Train-shed Hardening Project $18,900,000.00 for Extension of Rail Yards $84,675,000.00 for World Trade Center Site and Transit Facilities Flood Mitigation and Resiliency Improvements Program $37,084,650.00 for Exchange Place, Newport Station & Grove Street Station Head House Protection “Hurricane Sandy not only had an enormous impact on families across the region, but also devastated our already crumbling infrastructure,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-09). “Repairing our mass transit system is vital to the commerce of the region, as well as supporting the thousands of commuters that help drive our economy. These federal funds will help ensure our mass transit systems are stronger and more resilient to future disasters. We simply can’t afford to leave these critical transportation networks unprotected.” “A strong transportation system is critical to our economy and to our daily lives here in New Jersey,” said Rep. Frank Pallone (NJ-06). “These grants will allow for significant improvements in Middlesex County that will help modernize our infrastructure and keep us moving. As we continue to rebuild in the years after Superstorm Sandy, we have a unique opportunity to improve the public infrastructure in our state so that it is stronger and able to withstand future storms. I want to thank the Department of Transportation for this important investment for our community.” "As we rebuild from the devastation caused by Superstorm Sandy it is critical that we redouble our efforts to build better, stronger, and more resilient infrastructure," said Rep. Rush Holt (NJ-12). "This funding will enable NJTRANSIT to better plan for future climate emergencies by moving rail cars out of harm's way." “Superstorm Sandy was devastating to New Jersey’s communities, infrastructure, and economy,” said Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-08). These grants will provide critical funding and help New Jersey rebuild. I will continue to work with my counterparts in the New Jersey delegation to ensure that funding is directed to projects that will strengthen our resiliency and economy.” “This funding is significant in protecting our critical infrastructure and to modernizing our transit systems to compete in the 21st Century,” said Rep. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10). “As a member of the Committee on Homeland Security, it has been my priority to rebuild our infrastructure so that it is stronger and more resilient as we prepare for future disasters whether they are manmade or by Mother Nature. With this commitment from the Department of Transportation, we will continue to rebuild New Jersey stronger than before the storm.” The FTA’s resiliency funding is intended to protect public transportation infrastructure that has been repaired or rebuilt after Superstorm Sandy or that is at risk of being damaged or destroyed by a future natural disaster ###
09.17.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires supported multiple bills brought before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, including a bill that would provide $7 billion for Amtrak over the next four years, including $1.88 billion to improve Amtrak routes that run through New Jersey in the Northeast Corridor. The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2014 would reform Amtrak in many ways, including restructuring how Amtrak is funded and creating a new 50-50 Federal-State Partnership for the Northeast Corridor Development and Improvement to provide grants for improvements to the Northeast Corridor. “I am pleased that this bill addresses the much needed infrastructure improvements along the Northeast Corridor that many New Jerseyans use,” said Congressman Sires. “I am also pleased that this legislation applies Buy American provisions to the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing loan program for improvements to the Northeast Corridor to ensure that American workers continue to build American infrastructure, from start to finish.” Another bipartisan bill that passed through the Committee unanimously would reauthorize the National Estuary Program, a program that has awarded grants to aid in the ecological restoration of the New York-New Jersey Harbor estuary. “The National Estuary Program identifies estuaries of national significance that are threatened by pollution, land development, or overuse, like the New York-New Jersey Harbor, and supports the development of comprehensive management plans to restore and protect them,” stated Congressman Sires. “Reauthorizing this program will strengthen the economies of New Jersey coastal communities and restore ecological diversity.” ###
09.15.2014	(Washington D.C.) – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-08) today expressed alarm with Home Depot’s announcement that they may have suffered the largest data breach in history. The breach potentially goes back to last April and could affect all of its 2,200 stores nationwide. “It has been over 250 days since Target announced its data breach, yet instead of any solution to protect consumers’ personal information, we have seen data breaches grow more common and affect more people.” Sen. Menendez said. “The fact that hackers used the same malware in both the Target and Home Depot hacks shows a troubling lack of progress. We are now looking at potentially the largest breach yet, and this announcement only confirms the dire need for our legislation to safeguard consumers’ sensitive data.” “Data breaches, like the ones we’ve most recently seen with Home Depot, eBay and Target, happen far too often,” stated Rep. Sires. “Citizens put their trust in corporations and their security systems every day when they shop, bolstering the economy and providing for their families in the process. It is unfair that they are unprotected as they go about their daily lives. It’s time to pass the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights in order to protect consumers’ personal information and hold those accountable who fail to keep that information secure.” As a result of multiple hearings and stakeholder engagement, Menendez and Sires introduced the Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights in May. This legislation is critical to protect consumers and hold companies accountable in the event of a data breach. More information on the bill can be found here. The Home Depot data breach is the latest in a wave of massive data breaches in the past year. Last December, Target announced that they suffered a data breach affecting 40 million customers’ financial data and 70 million customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses. In May, eBay announced that hackers accessed up to 145 million user records. The hackers stole encrypted passwords and other customer data. While Home Depot has not announced how many customers were affected, their breach has the potential to be even larger than these breaches. Late last year, Senator Menendez wrote to Federal Trade Commission Chairwoman Ramirez in December regarding the Target data breach, and asked whether the agency needed additional legislative authority to protect consumers’ sensitive data. He also called for Senate Banking Committee hearings on the recent data breaches, and during Committee and Subcommittee hearings questioned witnesses from regulators, industry, and consumer advocates on whether companies are properly safeguarding consumers’ data. ###
09.10.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- U.S. Senators Robert Menendez and Cory Booker (both D-NJ) and Congressmen Albio Sires (NJ-08) and Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) today announced a $14,800,000 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) to improve and expand facilities at Port Newark, create hundreds of jobs and enhance economic opportunities throughout the region. “This significant federal investment ensures Port Newark’s viability in this highly-competitive global economy,” said Sen. Menendez. “The expansion of Port Newark—a vital economic engine for the entire region—equips it to handle the expected increased demand and larger vessels that will soon traverse a wider and deeper Panama Canal and up the Atlantic Coast. Funding infrastructure improvements like this is the most efficient way to grow jobs and stimulate the local economy.” “When Port Newark is strong, New Jersey’s economy is strong. If we want to move more goods, improve our economic competitiveness as a state, and grow more jobs, we must make necessary investments to expand New Jersey’s port infrastructure, said Sen. Booker. “I will continue to advocate for more funding which will allow New Jersey to make essential investments to the Port Newark Terminal while providing more New Jerseyans with high-paying jobs.” “I am pleased that Essex County’s TIGER 2014 application for the Port Newark Container Terminal (PNCT) Access Improvements and Expansion Project has been granted by the Department of Transportation,” said Rep. Sires. “This grant will accelerate the critically-needed replacement of outdated infrastructure and related security and utilities assets that, if left unimproved, threaten freight transportation network efficiency, impede the mobility of goods, and suppress economic growth in New Jersey. This project will also significantly reduce congestion that results in harmful truck idling emissions which jeopardize the health of Essex county residents.” “The 10th District of New Jersey will benefit greatly from this nearly $15 million investment into Port Newark,” said Rep. Payne, Jr. “Not only will it create hundreds of jobs at the port, but it will increase commerce into New Jersey and keep costs of consumer goods low across the state. In an expanding worldwide economy, it is critical that we continue to invest in our infrastructure, and this tremendous funding will ensure that New Jersey continues to be a major economic competitor on a global scale.” The Port Newark Container Terminal (PNCT) in Essex County plans to use this federal funding to demolish outdated warehouses and gate facilities, and construct new gate facilities and a new paved container storage area. It’s part of an overall $53.9 million project, largely funded through private investment, to double the port’s gate capacity, increase container yard capacity by 23%, improve overall service levels, and cut truck transaction times by as much as half. Essex County Executive Joseph N. DiVincenzo, Jr. added: “We are pleased that the federal government will be investing $14 million in TIGER grant funding to expand the gate and increasing the lanes at the Port Newark Container Terminal facilities. The upgrades will have a tremendous impact in promoting economic growth by generating construction jobs and new permanent positions at the Port. The creation of additional lanes will also help the environment, as decreasing idling time for tractor trailers means a reduction of harmful vehicle emissions. We thank our federal legislators, Senators Menendez and Booker and Congressmen Payne and Sires, for supporting this significant project and understanding the many positive effects it will have on the City of Newark, Essex County and the surrounding region.” The project is expected to generate 300, good-paying, full time jobs with an average annual salary of $84,000, create 150 construction jobs and reduce shipping costs through increased port productivity, keeping the costs for goods down across the region. “On behalf of everyone at Port Newark Container Terminal (PNCT), I want to thank The Honorable Anthony Foxx, US Secretary of Transportation; Senators Menendez and Booker; Congressmen Payne and Sires, Governor Christie; Senator Lesniak; Assemblyman Rumana; Essex County Executive DiVincenzo, and their staffs for their confidence and support of our Tiger VI 2014 Grant Application,” said PNCT President Jim Pelliccio. “Port Newark Container Terminal’s access improvement and expansion project is one of several planned developments taking place at Port Newark. PNCT continues to invest in expansion and operating efficiencies in the Port of New Jersey and New York. This TIGER Grant will accelerate and enhance job growth, environmental sustainability, and quality of life for the surrounding communities as we further trade growth in the region and feed this vital economic engine.” Operated by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ), Port Newark is the third largest container port in the United States, the largest on the East Coast and 19th largest port in the world. Handling approximately 12% of the nation’s cargo volume, economic impact studies point to Port Newark as the source of 461,350 direct and indirect jobs; $46.3 billion in personal and corporate income; and $6 billion in tax revenue. The USDOT TIGER Discretionary Grant program provides federal funding for shovel-ready infrastructure improvement projects aimed at achieving critical national objectives. Established by Congress in 2009 to help the nation recover from the Great Recession, today’s announcement is part of the sixth round of TIGER grants, which collectively produced $4.1 billion in investment for rail, roads, transit, pedestrian and bicycle, and port projects. ###
08.10.2014	(HOBOKEN, NJ) – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) today joined local residents and officials to decry the proliferation of helicopter traffic over the Hudson River and call for an outright ban of tourist choppers threatening the quality of life and public safety of residents living along the waterfront. The coalition of electeds fighting for a ban includes members of Congress, state, county and local officials representing New Jersey and New York. “For months, we’ve been talking with stakeholders, convening roundtable discussions, and trying to take steps towards a rational way to deal with these helicopters, but the time for talk is long over,” said Sen. Menendez. “It is time for the FAA to use any-and-every tool they have to shut down these helicopters and put an end to this problem, and if they don’t have the tools they need, then we will do all we can to make sure they have them.” "All over this area, helicopter flights have increased to the point that this is a safety issue," U.S. Rep. Albio Sires (NJ-08) said. "We have all these tourist helicopters coming over until almost until midnight. The safety issue and quality-of-life issue is paramount. If tourists want to see the skyline of New York let them drive over here. This is the most beautiful view in the country." In a letter sent today to the heads of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and New Jersey Department of Transportation, Senators Menendez and Cory Booker (D-NJ) and Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-08) asked the FAA to “provide guidance on additional authority needed to implement and enforce a ban on tour helicopters that present public nuisance and safety concerns.” “Given the number of stakeholders involved in this matter, it is our hope that the FAA can bring leadership to bear in finding a solution—whether using current agency authority, or whether this entails Congress providing your agency with additional tools or resources,” they added. In show of unity, Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) also led a letter sent to Mayor Bill de Blasio that was signed by 20 other leading New York elected officials. The letter called on the Mayor to ban tourist flights from the downtown heliport owned by New York City. “We stand united with our New Jersey colleagues in our deep concern for the unregulated tourist helicopter flights in our airspace. They are a serious safety threat and deeply impact the quality of life in both New York and New Jersey,” said U.S. Rep. Nadler. “Sadly, much of our airspace seems more like the Wild West than the airspace befitting our great cities and states. We will continue to ensure that our government – at the city, state, and federal levels – are doing all that they can do to end these unnecessary tourist helicopter flights.” Sen. Menendez was joined at a news conference overlooking the Hudson River by several Hudson County elected officials, including: Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer; Weehawken Mayor Richard Turner; Bayonne Mayor Jimmy Davis; North Bergen Mayor and State Senator Nicholas Sacco; Guttenberg Mayor Gerald Dracheff; West New York Mayor Felix Roque; Hudson County Executive Thomas DeGise; Hudson County Freeholder Anthony Romano; District Director Robert M. Gottheim on behalf of Rep. Nadler; and Deputy Chief of Staff Mark Albeiz on behalf of Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop; as well as Brian Wagner from the advocacy group ‘Stop the Chop’. "Helicopter tourism benefits a select few at the expense of everyone who calls this area home," said Mayor Zimmer. "Plus, you don't need a helicopter for a great view of Manhattan - we've got the best views right here along our waterfront." “I want to thank Senator Menendez and Congressman Sires for leading this effort to protect the residents of Weehawken and improve their quality of life,” Mayor Turner said. “Those tourist helicopters buzz overhead day and night destroying the comfort we all expect in our own homes.” Mayor Steven Fulop said: "I applaud Senator Menendez's and Congressman Sires's efforts to end what has become a quality of life nuisance for Jersey City residents and I am pleased to join with so many other elected officials in supporting this critical issue." “I want to thank Senator Menendez and Congressman Sires for taking leadership on this issue, Mayor Davis added. “Additionally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for lending their voices to this rallying cry. For us in Bayonne, the time has come to ban tourist helicopters. From the noise and congestion in the sky to the very real public safety issues on the ground, these joy rides in the sky need to be grounded.” A copy of the full letter from Menendez, Booker and Sires follows. August 8, 2014 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Mr. Joseph Bertoni Acting Commissioner New Jersey Department of Transportation P.O. Box 600 Trenton, NJ 08625 Dear Administrator Huerta and Acting Commissioner Bertoni: We write to you concerning the issue of tour helicopter traffic in the northern New Jersey-New York City airspace, a problem that presents increasing concerns for the safety and quality of life of our constituents. We appreciate the willingness the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), including Region II Administrator Carmine Gallo, has shown to work with us on this issue, including participation in a number of discussions and roundtable events regarding this growing problem. However, after multiple meetings with the FAA and other stakeholders, there has been no clear indication of which entities possess the authority to eliminate the nuisance of tour helicopters. Tour helicopters have proliferated in recent years, flying with increasing frequency during most waking hours of the day. In addition to the ever-present disruption to the quality of life in the neighborhoods along the helicopter’s flight paths, the limited regulation these operators are subject to presents serious risks for both those traveling in the helicopters and those on the ground below. Our work to address this problem has been curtailed by inadequate ability to track the number of helicopters operating in the airspace, as well as the lack of any enforcement mechanism for agreed upon helicopter flights paths over New Jersey or New York City. Although interim steps have been taken to address this concern, including the closure of the Paulus Hook heliport, these actions have proven insufficient to provide relief for New Jerseyans and other area residents. We write to you today to express our support for a comprehensive ban on tourist helicopters in the northern New Jersey-New York City airspace, and to enlist your assistance in advancing this goal. In implementing such a ban, it is critical to ensure that helicopter operations closing in New York City do not simply relocate to New Jersey, or vice versa. In particular, we fully support New York’s efforts to close the downtown Manhattan heliport. As federal representatives, we ask that the FAA provide guidance on additional authority needed to implement and enforce a ban on tour helicopters that present public nuisance and safety concerns. Given the number of stakeholders involved in this matter, it is our hope that the FAA can bring leadership to bear in finding a solution—whether using current agency authority, or whether this entails Congress providing your agency with additional tools or resources. This issue of tour helicopters is vital to the quality of life and safety of our communities. We appreciate your previous efforts in working towards a solution to this problem, and hope to continue that partnership to find a lasting solution for New Jerseyans. Sincerely, ______________________ _________________________ Robert Menendez Cory A. Booker United States Senator United States Senator ______________________ Albio Sires Member of Congress
07.25.2014	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding ongoing Argentine Debt Mediations: “As the July 30th deadline for Argentine bond payments nears, I implore all parties involved to proceed with haste in good faith negotiations to reach a settlement in order to avoid a default by Latin America’s third largest economy. A default by Argentina has the potential to trigger calamitous effects on a country already struggling to overcome a recession and one of the world’s highest rates of inflation. Above all, it would be most unfortunate to the Argentine people who have worked so hard to overcome the effects of the nearly $100 billion default in 2001. I encourage Argentina to continue taking positive steps in settling disputes as it did with the Paris Club of creditor nations and Spanish firm Repsol earlier this year. As talks proceed, incendiary rhetoric and unwarranted personal attacks are best left aside as they do little to resolve the current impasse. Time is clearly running out and the stakes are very high. The people of Argentina have a wonderful, culturally and resource rich nation to be proud of with so much potential. While difficult decisions will have to be made, I hope all parties will come to the table and work tirelessly to come to a resolution in an effort to turn the page on what has been an arduous chapter in the southern cone nation’s modern economic history.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
07.21.2014	"Today, the residents of Union County lost a devoted civil servant," said Congressman Sires in a statement. "Sheriff Froehlich served over three decades as Sheriff and worked tirelessly at improving the quality of life on behalf of the people of Union County. "My sympathies go out to his wife Marlene, their children, family and friends." "The Sheriff's passion and commitment to serve others will be missed by all."
07.15.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted for H.R. 5021, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014, which passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 367-55. The legislation would extend surface transportation programs authorized under current law through May 31, 2015, and would infuse $10.9 billion into the Highway Trust Fund. The current authorization of Federal highway, public transit, highway safety, motor carrier safety, and hazardous materials safety programs is set to expire on September 30, 2014. In addition, the Highway Trust Fund faces a shortfall before the end of fiscal year 2014. Congress must reauthorize surface transportation programs and provide additional funding for the Highway Trust Fund to ensure continued funding of these critical surface transportation programs until Congress enacts a long-term surface transportation reauthorization bill. “While this legislation is a positive first step, it is only a temporary fix,” said Congressman Sires. “It’s imperative that Congress continues to work to find a long-term solution that addresses our transportation needs and funds these programs that creates jobs to fix our Nation’s crumbling infrastructure.” H.R. 5021 now awaits action in the Senate. ###
07.09.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, the House passed H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. The legislation supports America’s workforce by creating education and work force development opportunities necessary for a strong middle class. “This bipartisan legislation will improve the workforce development system and help put Americans back to work by creating employment, education, training, and support services for job seekers and workers,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased Congress came together in a bipartisan fashion to invest in America’s workforce and advance its middle class.” Specifically, H.R. 803 aids America’s workforce by providing individuals, including those with disabilities, with the opportunities needed to acquire the skills necessary to succeed in the workforce and helps connect job training programs to long-term employment opportunities. Additionally, the legislation streamlines the workforce development system by eliminating and integrating programs, aligns workforce development programs with economic development initiatives, and improves outreach to disconnected youth. H.R. 803 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 415-6 and passed the Senate by a vote of 95-3. The legislation currently awaits the President’s signature.
07.01.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the reported discovery of the bodies of three Israeli teens, including one with American citizenship, who went missing earlier this month: “I was saddened to hear that Eyal Yifrah, Gilad Shaar, and Naftali Fraenkel were found murdered yesterday. My deepest condolences go out to the families of Eyal, Gilad, and Naftali and the people of Israel during this troubling time. It is disturbing to see children being subjected to these senseless acts of violence yet again; children should never be dragged into a theater of war. I stand with Israeli people all over the globe, calling for an end to these hostile aggressions, and for the perpetrators of these heinous crimes to be brought to justice.”
06.16.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding Colombia’s Presidential Election: “I want to congratulate President Juan Manuel Santos on his re-election Sunday and the people of Colombia for coming together to conclude what was a very close election. For years, the world has marveled at the drastic turn-around of Colombia from a country plagued by violence, poverty, and uncertainty to one of the most economically vibrant, secure, and politically stable democracies in our hemisphere. I have seen this change first hand throughout my countless visits to Colombia whose evolution is a testament to the sacrifice and commitment of the Colombian people to seek peace and economic prosperity. Today, Colombia is closer than ever to achieving a long sought after peace agreement to end a deadly, 50 year conflict. I will continue to follow the fate of the negotiations closely and call for the United States’ continued support of our strongest regional ally.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
06.11.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Yesterday, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 4745, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2015, which passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 229 to 192. While this legislation would provide a total of $105.5 billion for the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) departments and related agencies through the rest of Fiscal Year 2015 (until October 1, 2015), this proposal includes significant and debilitating cuts to public transportation and housing programs. The bill fails to make needed investments in critical infrastructure projects and does not provide sufficient support for critical housing programs for low-income families and the homeless. “While this bill included many provisions that I support, I ultimately could not, in good conscious, vote in favor of legislation that does not promote economic growth, opportunity, and national security. I believe we must address our transportation and housing needs with a bill that adequately funds the critical programs so many Americans depend on,” said Congressman Sires. While this appropriations bill would provide funding to renew all expiring housing vouchers within HUD, it would not restore any of the Section 8 project-based rental assistance vouchers that were lost due to sequestration. It also would cut funding for the HOME Investment Partnerships program by 30 percent. This program provides funding to state, local, and tribal governments to expand the supply of affordable housing, and this cut would reduce the program to its lowest funding level to date. Furthermore, this bill would cut funding to the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program by 7 percent, under which state and local governments receive assistance to develop comprehensive long-term strategies for meeting the housing needs of people with AIDS and their families. Additionally, the bill’s significant spending cuts to transportation programs come at a time when the Nation’s infrastructure is in desperate need of investment. Amidst a struggle to fix the nearly depleted Highway Trust Fund, the appropriations bill would further reduce investment in the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant program by $500 million to a mere $100 million. Amtrak’s funding was decreased by $200 million, reducing its capacity to address critical repairs. The Capital Investment Grants, which supports new transit projects, would be reduced significantly, and no money was provided in the bill to address transit projects waiting in the pipeline. “I’m very disappointed in the inability of Congress to address our Nation’s significant infrastructure needs,” expressed Congressman Sires. “Time and time again, this body has failed to realize that federal investment in highways, bridges, public transit, and railroads has significant impacts on jobs, enhances our economy, and improves our quality of life.” H.R. 4745 now awaits action in the Senate. ###
06.03.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires announced that Hoboken was one of six winners of the Rebuild by Design competition established by the U.S. Department of Urban Housing and Development and the Presidential Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force. The winning proposal titled “Resist, Delay, Store, Discharge: A Comprehensive Strategy for Hoboken,” will help to protect Hoboken and the surrounding parts of Weehawken and Jersey City from future flooding. “Hoboken, Jersey City, and Weehawken are dense, urban communities along the Hudson River that are increasingly vulnerable to coastal flooding as well as flash flooding. It is critical that we protect this area, which is a major economic driver for the state and includes critical infrastructure such as Hoboken Terminal,” expressed Congressman Sires. “This proposal will establish a comprehensive urban water management strategy for addressing flooding that could then be replicated in other urban areas.” Specifically, Hoboken’s comprehensive urban water strategy deploys programmed hard infrastructure and soft landscape for coastal defense (resist); policy recommendations, guidelines and urban infrastructure to slow rainwater runoff (delay); a circuit of interconnected green infrastructure to store and direct excess rainwater (store); and water pumps and alternative routes to support drainage (discharge). The objective of the initiative is to manage water- for both disaster and for long-term growth; enable reasonable flood insurance premiums- through the potential redrawing of the FEMA flood zone; and deliver co-benefits that enhance our cities with the goal to guide Hoboken and the surrounding communities on a sustainable path to living with water. “The approach outlined in this proposal recognizes that flood waters do not stop at municipal boundaries, therefore a regional solution to address the threat from storm surges is necessary. The Rebuild by Design competition is an opportunity for our urban communities to develop creative solutions to improve our region’s resiliency and I am proud of the winning proposal put forth to make Hoboken, Weehawken, and Jersey City more resilient,” stated Congressman Sires. Founded as a response to Superstorm Sandy’s devastation in the region, Rebuild by Design is dedicated to create innovative community-and policy-based solutions to protect U.S. cities that are most vulnerable to increasingly intense weather events and future uncertainties. Rebuild by Design’s aim has been to connect the world’s most talented researchers and designers with the Sandy affected area’s active businesses, policymakers and local groups to better understand how to redevelop their communities in environmentally- and economically- healthier ways and to be better prepared. “Resist, Delay, Store, Discharge: A Comprehensive Strategy for Hoboken,” proposal was designed by the Dutch firm OMA, led by architects and urban designers with expertise in urban water management and land-use planning. ###
05.29.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires announced the U.S. Department of Transportation’s selection of three New Jersey ferry operators to receive grant money under the Passenger Ferry Grant Program to support improvements to the condition of public ferry systems. Five New Jersey ferry operators will be awarded a total of $1,844,724, including New York Waterway and Statue Cruises, and New Jersey Transit will be awarded $6 million. “I applaud the ferry operators that were selected to receive these grants, and I am proud that this federal funding will benefit New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District,” said Congressman Sires. “Ferries are an important component of our nation’s transportation network, as they provide essential commuter transit and reduce land-traffic congestion.” The Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act authorized two programs which provide capital grants to help with construction of ferry vessels and terminals. To receive grants, ferry systems must be publicly owned or operated or majority publicly owned. “As the Representative of a dense congressional district filled with urban commuters, reducing congestion is critical to a prosperous community,” said Sires. “The Passenger Ferry Grant Program provides grants to improve and promote options for our transportation system and encourage the use of all modes of transportation.”
05.27.2014	"Today, the residents of North Bergen, New Jersey have lost a devoted civil servant and I have lost a dear friend, "Congressman Sires said in a statement. "My sympathies go out to Marie's husband Steve, her daughter Mary Anne, son Steven and three grandchildren during this very difficult time. Marie's dedication, impartiality and professionalism as Hudson County's Superintendent of Elections will be greatly missed."
05.22.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the House passed H.R. 3361, the USA FREEDOM Act. This bipartisan legislation would end the government’s bulk collection of phone metadata and other tangible records – replacing it with a new process in which the government must get approval on a case-by-case basis from the FISA Court (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court) before asking phone companies for specific call records. “The USA FREEDOM Act was passed after a rigorous debate and deliberative process that ensures we strike the right balance between providing our intelligence community the tools it needs to protect our citizens and guaranteeing the protection of our basic rights to privacy. H.R. 3361 simultaneously safeguards both our national security and the privacy of our citizens,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 3361 was unanimously supported by both committees it was considered by, and passed the House of Representatives on May 23, 2014 by a vote of 303 to 121. It now awaits further action in the Senate.
05.22.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding passage of H.Res.573, a resolution condemning the kidnapping of almost 300 girls in Nigeria: “Earlier this week, I joined my colleagues in Congress in supporting a resolution condemning the abduction of female students in Nigeria by armed militants from the terrorist group known as Boko Haram. Boko Haram’s despicable tactics of targeting innocent civilians and victimizing young girls cannot go unpunished. The kidnapping along with other violence committed by this group in the region is deeply disturbing. As an original cosponsor of H.Res.573, I strongly support the Administration’s efforts to aid Nigerian security forces in locating the missing girls and holding Boko Haram accountable.” The House of Representatives unanimously passed H.Res.573 on Tuesday, May 20, 2014.
05.22.2014	(WASHINGTON, DC) – In the wake of eBay’s announcement that its customers had their personal passwords exposed to hackers, U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-08) today introduced companion legislation to increase consumer protections and corporate accountability in the event of a data breach. “This latest data breach confirms what we already know: our data is simply not safe,” Sen. Menendez said. “When we shop, every consumer assumes that companies will protect their data by any means necessary. Yet in the last year, we have read far too many stories about hackers getting past corporations’ security systems. The American people deserve better than knowing that their information will soon end up in the hands of criminals, and that is why I am introducing legislation that will finally give consumer’s rights over their personal information that are long overdue.” “Data breaches, like the ones we’ve most recently seen with eBay and Target, happen far too often,” stated Rep. Sires. “Citizens put their trust in corporations and their security systems every day when they shop, bolstering the economy and providing for their families in the process. It is unfair that they are unprotected as they go about their daily lives. I am pleased to introduce this legislation with Senator Menendez in order to protect consumers’ personal information and hold those accountable who fail to keep that information secure.” Earlier this year, Sen. Menendez held a Senate Banking Subcommittee hearing to address the spate of massive data breaches, including the pre-Christmas cyber attack on Target that exposed millions of customers’ personal information to hackers. Customers at Michaels and Neiman Marcus were also victimized. Sen. Menendez wrote Federal Trade Commission Chairwoman Edith Ramirez in December asking if the FTC needs further legislative authority to hold retailers accountable for failures to protect consumers’ sensitive data. She responded by urging Congress to enact data security legislation that gives the FTC civil penalty authority as it is superior to the FTC’s traditional remedies. The FTC also recommended that Congress establish a general federal breach notification requirement. Today, eBay announced that hackers broke into their corporate databases between late February and early March. These criminals had access to customers’ personal data, including customers’ names, account passwords, email and physical addresses, dates of birth, and encrypted passwords. The company only discovered the breach two weeks ago. The Menendez-Sires Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights is the product of months of engagement with stakeholders and will protect consumers by doing the following: Places limits on both the type of information an entity may collect and for how long it may retain that information. Requires the FTC to issue regulations requiring companies to get consumers’ opt-in consent for the transfer of their covered information to third parties for behavioral advertising or marketing; access and correct any personally identifiable information the entity has stored; and compel those entities to inform their customers of and allow them to exercise their rights. Requires entities to contractually protect consumer information when transferring it to a third party. Creates a uniform data security notification standard to replace the current patchwork notification system and ensure every person has timely notice of a data breach. Provides additional protections for our children through inclusion of the “Do Not Track Kids Act”. Avoids unduly burdening businesses by requiring an independent NGO to help companies implement the Act and tasking the Department of Commerce with organizing outside entities towards the creation of safe harbor provisions. This legislation would only apply to entities covered by the FTC that collect, use, transfer, or store certain information concerning more than 5,000 people during a 12 month period. While the bill will be enforced by the Attorney General, State Attorneys Generals, and the FTC; private suits based on the law would be prohibited. Numerous organizations have long called for consumers’ privacy rights legislation. In 2012, the Administration released a report called “Consumer Data Privacy in a Networked World,” which called for a consumer privacy bill of rights. A May 1, 2014 report on data collection by White House counselor John Podesta renewed the call for legislation to protect consumers’ collected data. ###
05.20.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires proudly supported the Conference Report of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, which passed overwhelmingly (412 to 4) in the House of Representatives. The Conference Report of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act authorizes water infrastructure projects for the first time since 2007, invests in America’s transportation network, and includes key provisions that permanently codify Davis-Bacon prevailing wages and Buy America provisions for the construction of wastewater treatment infrastructure funded under the Clean Water State-Revolving-Fund (SRF) and Water Infrastructure Financing and Innovation Act (WIFIA). “This bipartisan legislation will not only create good-paying transportation jobs in New Jersey, but will also ensure that American steel is used to build water infrastructure projects partially or fully funded by the SRF and WIFIA programs,” Congressman Sires said. “The inclusion of these provisions ensures that Congress is making good-paying construction, manufacturing, and transportation jobs available to Americans at home.” The Conference Report additionally authorizes 34 new lock, dam, levee, port, and ecosystem restoration projects, deauthorizes $18 billion worth of old, inactive projects that were authorized prior to WRDA 2007, establishes a new, transparent process for future bills to review and prioritize water resources development activities with strong Congressional oversight,and increases flexibility for non-federal interests and leverages private sector investments to multiply the effect of federal funding. “I am pleased Congress came together in a bipartisan fashion to invest in vital water infrastructure projects, and I look forward to working again with Members of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to successfully advance further transportation and jobs creation policies.”
05.07.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement concerning the kidnapping of over 200 girls in Nigeria: “Boko Haram’s kidnapping of over 200 girls in Nigeria is a deplorable act that goes against all basic human rights. Though weeks have passed, the Nigerian government is slow-moving in its efforts to bring these girls back to their families. With Boko Haram claiming they plan on selling these girls, time is of the essence. I support the Administration’s efforts to aid Nigerian security forces in locating the missing girls and holding Boko Haram accountable. This tragedy is a cautionary tale of Boko Haram’s growing power and we must work with our allies in Africa to stop them from furthering their stronghold in the region. That is why I have joined my colleagues in cosponsoring H.Res. 573, condemning Boko Haram’s actions. The resolution also implores the Nigerian government to strengthen its efforts to protect their citizens from future attacks and ensure all its citizens have the opportunity to pursue an education without fear of reprisal.” The House Committee on Foreign Affairs is scheduled to mark up H.Res. 573 along with other measures regarding human trafficking on Friday, May 9, 2014.
05.02.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, the Department of Labor released the unemployment rate for the month of April. The jobless rate fell from 6.7 percent to 6.3 percent, the lowest rate since September 2008. Specifically, the number of unemployed individuals decreased by 733,000 last month. In addition, total nonfarm payroll employment rose by 288,000 jobs in April. Congressman Sires released the following statement in response: “The latest unemployment data released this morning is evidence that our economy is on the road to recovery as more Americans are finding work. Not since the financial crisis in 2008, have we seen the jobless rate this low. However, more work still needs to be done. One of the larger employment gains in the private sector was in construction, which added 32,000 jobs in April. This statistic proves that there are jobs right now waiting to be filled to build and improve our nation’s infrastructure. Investing in transportation infrastructure creates good American jobs, brings in business, and stimulates our economy. By passing the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), Congress can provide Americans with good jobs restoring our waterways and ports. Additionally, passing a bill to reauthorize and invest in critical surface transportation programs set to expire this summer, will create manufacturing jobs and give the construction season much-needed certainty. Federal investment in highways, bridges, public transit, and passenger rail systems, airport projects, and water infrastructure projects has a significant impact on job creation at home. While the long-term unemployment rate fell 0.2 percentage points to 2.2 percent, Congress must still address the plight of the long-term unemployed. One way to tackle this issue is through passage of legislation such as H.R. 3726, the Long-Term Unemployed Hiring Incentive Act, introduced by Representative Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and cosponsored by me, to offer tax incentives to businesses that prioritize hiring the long-term unemployed. In addition, reinstating extended unemployment insurance should remain an urgent priority to assist the long-term unemployed make ends meet. Furthermore, to improve the lives of those working full-time now, Congress should raise the minimum wage to a livable $10.10 an hour.” The next employment report for the month of May is scheduled to be released on June 6, 2014 by the Department of Labor. ###
05.01.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4486, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2015, by a vote of 416 to 1. This legislation would provide a total of $165 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 to fund military construction projects and programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) through the rest of FY 2015 (until October 1, 2015). This total includes $6.557 billion for military construction programs and $64.708 billion in discretionary funding for VA programs. “This agreement is a critical step forward towards adequately funding programs that address veteran homelessness, the VA medical records and claims backlog, and veterans’ health programs. I am glad that we were able to address real issues our service members are dealing with on a daily basis,” expressed Congressman Sires. Such initiatives to be funded under this appropriations bill include education and job training assistance, vocational rehabilitation, and special housing and transportation grants for disabled veterans. This agreement also includes $14.8 billion for veterans’ readjustment benefits and the Post 9-11 GI Bill, assisting service personnel adjust to civilian life once leaving the armed forces. Furthermore, this agreement provides $588.9 million for prosthetic research to service disabled veterans, and designates three percent of these funds for research focused on female prosthetic needs. This agreement also takes significant steps towards helping the Department of Veterans Affairs meet its goal of reducing the medical records and claims backlog. Specifically, this bill provides $3.9 billion for VA information technology initiatives, including $344 million for the modernization of electronic health records and $20 million in additional funding for the digital scanning of health and benefits records to further streamline the disability compensation claims process, striving to eliminate the backlog by 2015. “I am encouraged that the House of Representatives was able to pass a bipartisan appropriations bill that assists so many of our military personnel. It has never been more important to come together across the aisle to support the men and women who have served in uniform,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
04.30.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues on the Committee on Foreign Affairs to mark up four pieces of legislation, preparing them to be sent to the floor of the House of Representatives for a vote. These critical and timely pieces of legislation address several current international humanitarian crises. Legislation calling for an end to attacks on Syrian civilians, as well as legislation requiring the immediate establishment of a Syrian war crimes tribunal (H.Con Res. 51 and H.Res 520) were debated and unanimously approved. These bills condemn the attacks against innocent civilians and encourage accountability for the human rights abuses being committed in Syria. Additionally, legislation to include the desecration of cemeteries among the violations under the International Religious Freedom Act also passed with bipartisan support (H.R. 4028). “Finally, a long overdue overhaul of our public diplomacy and engagement policies was approved. H.R. 4490, The United States International Communications Reform Act, of which I am a cosponsor, takes real steps to improving our public diplomacy efforts to help people deprived of free and fair information, just like those oppressed in Cuba. Now, more than ever, we should be working to ensure people have access to fair and balanced media reporting to counter the anti-U.S. propaganda spread by some governments. I am pleased my colleagues and I were able to work together in a bipartisan manner to mark up these pieces of legislation, bring them closer to becoming law,” said Congressman Sires on all four bills being reported favorably out of the Committee.
04.25.2014	Sires Urges Secretary to Reconsider Diverting Sandy Funding (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires was displeased to hear of potential plans the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has announced to reallocate over $1 billion of the remaining $3.6 billion of Hurricane Sandy rebuilding aid. This money would come from the remaining Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funds appropriated under the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013, and would instead be used to fund a nationally competitive disaster relief program. “I am disappointed to hear that the Department is even considering this proposal. Superstorm Sandy took the lives of more than 100 Americans, destroyed homes and businesses, crippled infrastructure, and devastated a large portion of the East Coast,” expressed Congressman Sires. “This money is supposed to be used to rebuild our communities. Many communities in my district were some of the hardest hit by the storm.” Over 7,000 New Jersey homeowners are still on the Rehabilitation, Reconstruction, Elevation and Mitigation (RREM) program waiting list, waiting for grants to repair their homes and make them livable. “I hope that Secretary Donovan [Department of House and Urban Development] reconsiders diverting this aid money from the Hurricane Sandy victims in need,” said Congressman Sires. “New Jersey is still in the rebuilding stage and needs this money to fully reconstruct.” ###
04.08.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Last week, Congressman Sires wrote a letter to House Appropriations’ Subcommittee on Energy and Water Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur requesting the Committee allocate $50 million to the Department of Energy’s Clean Cities program for alternative fuel deployment activities. He additionally asked that $25 million of the request be put towards competitive grants that support innovative alternative fuel and vehicle deployment strategies. “The Clean Cities program has reduced petroleum consumption by more than 5 billion gallons since 1993,” stated Congressman Sires. “The initiative has helped boost the nation’s energy independence by investing in local projects that reduce petroleum reliance.” According to the Department of Energy annual reports, from 2006 to 2012, the Clean Cities program leveraged $133 million in program funding into another $1.7 billion in public and private investment in alternative fuels deployment projects: an overall leverage ratio of $12.8 for every dollar in the Clean Cities budget. In 2009, the Clean Cities project awarded a $15 million grant to a New Jersey transportation proposal. The project deployed nearly 300 compressed natural gas vehicles, including garbage trucks, shuttle buses, and six new compressed natural gas fueling stations throughout the state. Additionally, funding was used to educate the public about the benefits of using clean burning, domestically produced natural gas in vehicles. The bus fleet that the Clean Cities project help build was especially helpful during Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Before the storm, the buses provided transportation to elderly and disabled residents who could not evacuate themselves. Other buses helped transport residents to and from medical centers, and helped those staying behind gather emergency goods. Despite widespread fuel shortages for gasoline and diesel, the compressed natural gas station that the buses used to fuel up remained open and supplied the needed fuel. “Federal investment in this program in New Jersey has been very successful,” expressed Congressman Sires. “Over the past four years, the Department of Energy funding of $15 million has leveraged an additional $40 million of non-federal funds that may not have otherwise been invested in New Jersey.” The House of Representatives is currently debating the appropriations process. ###
04.04.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding USAID’s Cuba Twitter Program: “Democracy, human rights, and freedom of speech are amongst the basic rights and freedoms the Cuban government denies its people. The Cuban government has near complete control of communications, commerce, and mobility on the island, and utilizes fear, intimidation, incarceration, and unwarranted force to maintain that control over the Cuban people. Given Cuba's oppressive environment, by its very nature, any activity that is counter to Cuba’s policy of control and censorship would have to be carried out carefully while being sensitive to the individuals involved who fear government reprisal. While I personally hope for the day the Cuban people will no longer be subject to the Castro regime and instead be able to freely exercise basic human and democratic rights without reprisal, the Zunzuneo program was not an effort to subvert the Cuban government. Moreover, this program was far from covert let alone carried out without the consultation of Congress. In fact, in January 2013, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report reviewing U.S. Cuba activities including this program which found it to be consistent with U.S. law. There is nothing new here. Rather, what we have is a story whose attempt to add mystery and intrigue to USAID’s human rights and democracy promoting initiatives grossly exaggerated the facts. It would be a shame if the intent of this story was rooted in an effort to air grievances with current U.S. policy or to discredit the hard working men and women of our foreign diplomatic and aid agencies for non-related matters. It is also unfortunate that some in the media are far more worried about a program that dares to provide the means for the Cuban people to freely communicate instead of highlighting the abhorrent economic and deficient human rights conditions the Cuban government imposes on its people. I am dumbfounded that some find it entirely acceptable to carry out similar programs halfway across the globe but find it wrong to provide a medium for Cubans to communicate amongst themselves especially when uncensored means of communication are severely limited or nonexistent. On the contrary, I commend and wholeheartedly support USAID's democracy promotion efforts in Cuba and wish we could do more to support the fearless, freedom-loving Cubans that yearn for a democratic future.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
02.19.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding anti-government demonstrations in Venezuela: “I am very concerned with the escalation of violence and civil unrest unfolding in Venezuela. For days now, scores of peaceful Venezuelans have taken to the streets to express their frustrations at their government in protest to the deteriorating economic and political conditions in their country. Rather than allow the space and freedom for peaceful demonstrations, President Maduro has instead utilized oppressive Cuban tactics in detaining anti-government demonstrators and arresting opposition leader, Leopoldo Lopez. Like his predecessor, Mr. Maduro has also attempted to deflect unwarranted blame against the United States by expelling U.S. Embassy personnel. I am particularly disturbed and saddened by the unfortunate loss of life that has resulted from the demonstrations and echo the international community’s condemnation of the Venezuelan Government’s unnecessary and inappropriate use of force against demonstrators. I am hopeful that the people of Venezuela will overcome this difficult and uncertain time. For its part, the Government of Venezuela must recognize and respect freedom of expression and assembly without reprisal as basic human rights and principles of a democratic society.” Congressman Sires serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere within the House Committee on Foreign Affairs for the 113th Congress. ###
01.29.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union speech before Congress: “Last night, President Obama presented his agenda before Congress to prioritize job growth through providing opportunities for every American. Like the President, I believe that the strength of our economy coincides with the ability of every hard working American to achieve stability in the middle class. America is built on the principle that no matter ones lot in life, every citizen should be offered the same opportunities to thrive. I was encouraged by the President’s proposals to achieve this goal through the expansion of pre-school education, increased investments in job training, and raising the minimum wage. I strongly believe that Congress must work with the President to help all workers, beginning with the immediate extension of unemployment insurance that expired at the end of 2013 for the long term unemployed. Initiatives addressed last night to increase American manufacturing, improve our crumbling infrastructure, and bring back jobs to the United States are smart ways to not only create American jobs, but to make us more competitive in the emerging global markets. Furthermore, my colleagues and I in Congress must heed the President’s call to action to finally tackle the most pressing social issues facing our nation today by enacting comprehensive immigration reform and preventing further gun violence. In order to increase economic mobility for every hard working American, Congress must work together to increase opportunities to achieve the American dream. We can make that a reality through the agenda outlined by the President in his State of the Union address.”
01.29.2014	(Washington D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires introduced the New Opportunities for Bicycle and Pedestrian Infrastructure Financing Act of 2014. Modeled after the successful Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA), this bipartisan legislation will allow communities to take advantage of low-cost financing for projects that make our streets and sidewalks safer for all users. This proven model has demonstrated that each dollar of federal financing can provide up to $10 in credit assistance and leverage an additional $30 in private or other public sector funding. Most importantly, by using existing federal transportation funds, this program will not create a single dollar of new government spending. “Last night, President Obama called on Congress to help rebuild our middle class, and this bill would do just that,” said Congressman Sires. “When we make our roads and sidewalks safer, we help connect workers to new jobs. We create communities where families want to live and businesses want to invest. And we give mothers and fathers peace of mind, knowing they aren’t sending their children to school on the unsafe sidewalks and roadways that exist in so many of our rural and urban communities.” Last year, the League of American Bicyclists and the Sierra Club published a report entitled "The New Majority: Pedaling Towards Equity”. While the report highlights strong growth in bicycle ridership across America’s communities, it also raises concerns about the significant challenges faced by many underserved communities. To that point, in 2001 the fatality rate was 23% higher for Hispanic and 30% higher for African-Americans when compared to white riders. This legislation would require that 25% of project funding benefit underserved communities, with the goal of creating a more equitable, safe roadway environment for all Americans. “I am pleased that this legislation has drawn bipartisan support here in the House,” stated Congressman Sires. “This novel approach will add another tool in the toolbox for mayors, governors, and private investors to reinvigorate their communities and develop a strong, vibrant middle class.” ###
01.28.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) legislation: “I am disappointed to learn that in an effort to hastily pass the TPP legislation reauthorizing Trade Promotion Authority has been introduced without taking into account the impact it will have on the livelihood of millions of hardworking Americans. Legislation altering our international trade policy should be considered only after close consultation with Congress, ensuring a productive and deliberative process. I believe that free trade agreements should focus on increasing American exports and creating and supporting American jobs. TPP legislation should not come up for consideration in Congress until after the Administration has worked closely with Congress to mitigate the negative impacts it may have on the American workforce. This legislation should be used as an opportunity for Congress and the Administration to ensure that new trade policies will not just reduce barriers to U.S. exports, but also provide protections for workers, small businesses and the environment.” ###
01.28.2014	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires questioned witnesses at a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing as to how the federal government can make our roads safer for all users. The hearing, entitled, “Improving the Effectiveness of the Federal Surface Transportation Safety Grant Programs”, focused broadly on gains in highway safety and the important role the federal government has played in reducing roadway fatalities. However, Congressman Sires pointed out that while traffic fatalities have shown a downward trend, bicycle, pedestrian, and motorcycle deaths have increased sharply. “More than 30,000 people were killed in motor vehicle crashes in 2012, and 17% of those deaths were our roads most vulnerable users: pedestrians and bicyclists. Yet, only 1.5% of federal transportation funding goes towards making our sidewalks and streets safer for them,” the Congressman stated. “With an increasing number of people biking and walking each year, we must ensure that we look at our roadways holistically - as a network made up of many different users - and take all of their safety into account.” ###
01.24.2014	(JERSEY CITY, N.J.) – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) today announced the awarding of a $6,868,000 federal Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant to the Jersey City Fire Department that will help replace or retain 49 firefighters, who either previously retired or whose positions were slated for elimination due to municipal budget constraints. This additional federal funding allows Jersey City to hire 30 new firefighters. “Nothing is more essential to keeping a community as safe as it can be as keeping firefighters on the job,” Sen. Menendez said. “And not only will this funding create jobs and help protect our communities, it will also help maintain safe working conditions for our firefighters, who deserve nothing less than our best efforts to ensure they can perform their duties as safely and effectively as possible.” “I congratulate the Jersey City Fire Department for pursuing this competitive grant,” said Rep. Sires. “With these additional funds, Jersey City’s outstanding fire department will continue to provide the highest level of overall safety for its residents and their neighborhoods.” The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) SAFER program seeks to increase the number of frontline firefighters, enhancing the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and assuring that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. "Enhancing public safety has been the top priority of my administration since taking office, and we have been aggressively focused on pursuing federal funding, such as the SAFER grant, so we can hire additional firefighters," said Mayor Steven M. Fulop. "I want to thank Senator Menendez and Congressman Sires for advocating for Jersey City to receive this significant and important funding that will help us continue in our efforts to make Jersey City the safest mid-size city in America." Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), who was the prime author of the SAFER Act and also wrote a letter in support of the Jersey City Fire Department, said: “Adequate staffing for fire departments has a direct correlation to their response times, so having a fully staffed department can literally mean the difference between life and death. I am proud of the work we have done in Congress to bolster public safety.” ###
01.15.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3547, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, by a vote of 359 to 67. This legislation would provide $1.012 trillion in discretionary funding to keep the government open through the rest of Fiscal Year 2014 (until October 1, 2014). “While this agreement is not perfect, it is an improvement over the draconian cuts of the sequester and it places Congress on a path towards restoring a regular appropriations process. It also eliminates the possibility of any government shutdowns in the near future,” expressed Congressman Sires. This upholds the overall regular discretionary level as agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Act, passed in December 2013, by including a total of $1.012 trillion in regular Defense and non-Defense discretionary funding. This amount is about $45 billion above the $967 billion FY2014 levels that would have occurred under sequestration. An additional $98 billion is provided for military and disaster relief funding. A majority of non-Defense agencies are funded at or about pre-sequester levels. The final agreement also repeals last year’s cut to cost of living adjustments for disabled military retirees and survivors and provides new tools and resources to address the backlog of veterans’ disability claims. Specifically, it provides $8.6 billion in funding for the Head Start program, which provides comprehensive early childhood services to children and families from before birth through age 5. In addition, a combined $318,150 million was provided to account for food price inflation for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) commodity purchases and TEFAP Storage and Distribution funding to help food banks and emergency feeding agencies store, transport, and distribute foods to the needy. Furthermore, the legislation includes $600 million for investments in national infrastructure investments through the TIGER program and includes language that prioritizes rail, highway, and transit projects. “I am encouraged that the efforts of my colleagues and I to increase funding for certain programs that help families in need and create jobs were accomplished under this agreement, including funding increases for early childhood education, food banks, and transportation and infrastructure projects,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
01.09.2014	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 2279, the Reducing Excessive Deadline Obligations Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 255 to 188. H.R. 2279 would reduce the number of cleanups of contaminated and dangerous Superfund sites accomplished each year, which would result in polluters escaping the responsibility for cleaning up the pollution they have caused. “Instead of taking urgent action to restore emergency unemployment insurance for millions of Americans, the House Majority voted on yet another bill that compromises our environment and communities at the expense of special interests. This bill would irresponsibly delay cleanup of contaminated sites, many of which exist in New Jersey, that pose the most urgent health and safety risks,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, this bill would make changes to the Superfund hazardous-waste cleanup program that would shift authority over hazardous sites and their cleanup from Federal agencies to the states. In turn, this would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from enforcing financial responsibility requirements on polluters which could leave taxpayers at risk for billions in cleanup costs. Additionally, as a result of this legislation the number of dangerous contaminated sites that are cleaned up each year could drop resulting in greater exposure to dangerous pollutants and higher rates of diseases including cancer. “The American people deserve Congressional action that protects their interests, including their health and jobs. I encourage my colleagues in the Majority to focus their energy on legislation that creates jobs and helps struggling American families,” expressed Congressman Sires. H.R. 2279 is now under review in the Senate. ###
12.23.2013	(Washington, D.C.)—Today, Congressman Albio Sires welcomed the announcement that $3 billion in competitive grant funding through the Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Hurricane Sandy Resilience Program will be made available for public transportation resiliency projects in regions affected by Hurricane Sandy, including New Jersey. Earlier this month, Congressman Sires urged FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff to provide the additional grant funding as expeditiously as possible so that New Jersey can continue addressing future transit vulnerabilities. “Hurricane Sandy was the worst transit disaster in United States history,” said Congressman Sires. “American tax payers should not be asked to simply rebuild our critical infrastructure to the level it was before the storm. We must rebuild smarter and stronger to ensure that we don’t find ourselves in the same position the next time a major storm hits.” The Federal Transit Administration has already allocated $1.3 billion from the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2012 for locally prioritized resiliency projects. Public transportation providers will have until March 28, 2014 to submit applications for the Hurricane Sandy Resilience Program. ###
12.18.2013	(Washington, D.C.) – Last week, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.R. 3768, the Promoting Tourism to Enhance our Economy Act. A bill that will allow Canadian citizens who bring millions of dollars into the U.S. economy to continue to conveniently and safely travel between our shared borders. “Increasing tourism and encouraging Canadians to continue to visit the U.S. will grow our economy, better relationships with our neighbors to the north and bring money into the U.S. at no cost to the taxpayer,” said Congressman Sires. Over 400,000 people cross the U.S. –Canada border daily and our state of New Jersey sells more goods to Canada than any other country in the world. This produces over $16 billion in trade and impacts over 227,000 New Jersey jobs. The Promoting Tourism to Enhance our Economy Act is a responsible way to bring additional jobs and revenue into not just the state of New Jersey but the entire country. ###
12.13.2013	(Washington, D.C)- Last night, Congressman Sires voted in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and Pathway for Sustainable Growth in Medicare Reform Act of 2013 (H.J. Res. 59). This resolution was a blueprint for future budgets. The bipartisan budget agreement caps topline discretionary spending for the current fiscal year at $1.012 trillion, and provides $63 billion in sequestration relief over the next two years. “While this agreement is not perfect, it is a step in the right direction in preventing manufactured budget crises that has plagued Congress for the last several years. I am particularly pleased that this deal not only increases funding for defense measures, but also increases funding for critical non-defense domestic programs, such as Head Start and the National Institutes of Health. Furthermore, savings in this agreement are not done at the expense of programs that families and seniors depend on - the bipartisan deal does not cut one penny from Medicare, Social Security, or Medicaid benefits,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, the agreement includes approximately $85 billion in mandatory savings and non-tax revenue. It accomplishes this through a number of deficit-reduction provisions, including a small increase in retirement contributions by new Federal employees and a tiny increase in security-related fees charged by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Overall, the agreement would reduce the deficit by $23 billion over the next ten years. In addition, the proposal would prevent a 24 percent scheduled cut in Medicare reimbursements to physicians through a small incremental increase in payments to doctors that accept Medicare through March 31, 2014. Repealing the scheduled cut will ensure that seniors continue to have access to their health care providers. “Unfortunately, one glaring omission from this agreement is a proposal to extend unemployment insurance (UI) to the long term unemployed. Not only is extending unemployment insurance the right thing to do, but it is also good for the American economy. I have cosponsored H.R. 3546, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2013, which would extend EUC payments for eligible recipients through January 1, 2015. I will continue to fight for the extension of unemployment benefits as we go forward,” stated Congressman Sires. H.J.Res. 59 is now under review before the Senate. ###
12.10.2013	(Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on the passing of former South African President Nelson Mandela: “Today, I mourn along with those around the globe on the passing of Nelson Mandela,” Congressman Sires said in a statement. “As we live on we should continue to be reminded of Madiba’s legacy of freedom and equality not just today but every day.”
10.29.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 29, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Introduces Bipartisan Freight Panel Final Recommendations (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues to introduce the final recommendations of the specially appointed “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation.” The ad-hoc subcommittee has met over the past six months to examine the role freight transportation plays in the U.S. economy and how the federal government can work to increase the efficiency, safety, and security of our critical transportation network. Included in the Panel’s findings are several key policy provisions put forth in Congressman Sires’s MOVE Freight Act, including recommendations that Congress should direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish a true multimodal freight network that takes all modes of goods movement into account, the creation of comprehensive state freight plans, and robust, dedicated funding for freight transportation infrastructure projects. “In New Jersey, more than 11% of our workers are involved in transportation, logistics, and distribution—well above the national average—and my district is home to one of the largest sea ports in the country, so involvement on this panel has been a key priority for me,” remarked Congressman Sires. “These common sense, bipartisan recommendations will help ensure that New Jersey remains competitive and it will ensure that our nation, which moves nearly $20 trillion in goods on our transportation network each year, remains competitive.” The findings of the Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation will play a key role in the development of a long-term surface transportation bill, which is expected to be completed before the end of 2014. ###
10.24.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 24, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Applauds Passage of House WRRDA Bill Washington, D.C – Last night, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) with overwhelming support, by a vote of 417 to 3. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Water Resources Development Act—legislation responsible for authorizing the water resources program of the Army Corps of Engineers—for the first time since 2007. For New Jersey, that means vital port dredging projects that keep our ports competitive, a larger share of money for harbor maintenance projects, and greater infrastructure resiliency, protecting us against the damage of future storms. “The Water Resources Reform and Development Act shows just how much we can accomplish when partisan politics are set aside, and I hope that this effort will stand as an example for all of Congress to follow in the future,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill protects and creates new jobs, enhances our resiliency against storm like Hurricane Sandy, and ultimately creates stronger communities in New Jersey.” Last May, the Senate passed S. 601, the Water Resources Development Act of 2013. The two chambers will now appoint conferees to finalize a bill before sending it to the President to sign into law. ###
10.17.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 17, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Statement on Solution to Re-Open the Government and Avoid Default (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires issued the following statement regarding the passage of legislation to re-open the government and raise the debt ceiling: “I am relieved that Congress has finally broken through the gridlock that initiated the government shutdown. Although 16 days is far too long for this stalemate to have occurred, thousands of American families woke up today knowing that not only can they pay their bills, but the United States of America can continue paying its bills. While this shutdown and last minute decision to raise the debt ceiling has been destructive, I am hopeful that this debate will serve as a valuable lesson to my colleagues in Congress- shutting down the government is not only reckless for our economy, but it has real consequences for real people. I look forward to the bipartisan budget conference, established under this legislation, to draft a responsible approach to rein in wasteful government spending while continuing to grow our economy rather than continuing to govern from crisis to crisis.”
10.11.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 11, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Talks Economy in Final Freight Panel Hearing (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues at the final hearing conducted by the specially appointed “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation.” The ad-hoc subcommittee has met over the past six months to examine the role freight transportation plays in the U.S. economy and how the federal government can work to increase the efficiency, safety, and security of our critical transportation network. In the panel’s final hearing, entitled “Funding the Nation’s Freight System”, Congressman Sires pressed witnesses to explain the consequences for our economy if Congress fails to identify robust sources of funding for transportation infrastructure projects. “The Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation has spent the past six months focusing on the needs of our nation’s freight network, so it’s fitting that the final hearing highlights the serious funding gaps we face simply to keep our roads in a state of good repair,” said Congressman Sires. “I can’t understate the importance of this: our freight network is America’s economic competitive edge in a global economy. Our ability to move goods quickly and efficiently remains the envy of the world, but if we fail to make smart investments right now, we will be outcompeted.” The panel is expected to issue a final report to Congress on its findings in the coming weeks. ###
10.07.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 5, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Cosponsors Bipartisan Immigration Reform Bill (Washington, D.C.)—On Wednesday, October 2, Congressman Sires cosponsored, H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act, a bipartisan immigration reform bill that includes a tough but fair path to citizenship.. This legislation maintains key provisions included in the Senate-approved bill S.744, which passed in June by a bipartisan vote of 68-32. Provisions in the bill include a path to citizenship that is contingent upon securing our borders and tracking whether legal immigrants have left the country when required, an expedited path to citizenship for DREAMers, and a measure to protect against future illegal immigration. Unlike S. 744, H.R. 15 rejects the controversial Corker-Hoeven amendment in the Senate-passed bill and replaces it with the McCaul-Thompson border security bill that was reported by the House Homeland Security Committee by voice vote in May. Congressman Sires commented on the new legislation, “Passing this bill would be a positive step toward mending our broken immigration system. H.R. 15 addresses immigration reform in a responsible way and overhauls the most deficient aspects of our current system.” According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), enactment of the bipartisan Senate-passed comprehensive immigration reform bill would reduce the deficit by $850 billion. CBO also estimates that the S. 744 would increase economic growth by 3.3% in 2023 and 5.4% in 3033. ”Comprehensive reform will reduce our deficit, grow our economy, reaffirm our values, advance our ideals, and honor our history as a nation of immigrants,” Congressman Sires concluded. ###
10.01.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 1, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires’ Statement on the Republican Government Shutdown (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the government shutdown as a result of House leadership’s refusal to bring to a vote a clean Continuing Resolution (CR): “Last night, the Republicans in the House majority voted for the fourth time on a reckless spending bill that is a non-starter with the Senate and President Obama. Their refusal to retreat from their extreme, ideological demands is taking our country down a dangerous path that will hurt our economy, threaten job creation, and leave families with less security, and our country with less certainty and stability. Today, 800,000 federal employees woke up to discover that they cannot work nor get paid. This refusal to pass a clean spending legislation to keep the government funded has got to stop. Partisan tactics have now become reality as thousands of Americans anxiously wait when they can go back to work and support their families. The Republicans latest maneuver was passing a measure in the middle of the night to request a conference with the Senate to negotiate a spending measure. I am supportive of budget negotiations for a comprehensive plan that addresses responsible government spending, but not for a last ditch effort that only guarantees a continued government shutdown. Keeping our government running is a basic function of Congress. Attaching unrelated policy measures to a simple funding resolution is unacceptable. My Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives have even looked to compromise with Republicans by offering a lower funding level in the CR to a level previously supported by Republicans, but that offer was rejected. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to pass a clean CR to ensure our recovering economy does not suffer more damage, as well as the American people.” ###
09.20.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 20, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Rejects Disastrous Food Aid Bill Washington, D.C - Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 3102: the so called “Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act of 2013”. This misguided legislation would strip food stamp aid from millions of Americans, with hundreds of thousands more seeing reductions to their already limited benefits. “Food aid programs such as food stamps ensure our children, our parents and grandparents, and America’s working families get basic nutritional aid when they’ve fallen on hard times,” Congressman Sires said. “It is unconscionable that Congress is once again attempting to balance our budget on the backs of those who are most vulnerable, while so many Americans are still struggling through the economic recovery.” The nutrition title, which has historically been included in the farm bill, provides funding for food assistance programs including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Emergency Food Assistance Program, and the Commodity Supplemental Program. These programs ensure that American families and seniors have access to the food they need, that our food banks are stocked, and that our children have access to a nutritious breakfast and lunch at school. Despite widespread objection, H.R. 3102 narrowly passed in the House by a vote of 217 to 210. “A healthy, vibrant democracy is dependent upon a healthy, vibrant population. Unfortunately, this bill only creates more insecurity for American families.” stated Congressman Sires. “I urge my colleagues in the House to reconsider this short-sighted effort, which only stands to harm those who go to bed hungry each night. As a nation, I believe we are capable of far better than that.” ###
09.19.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 19, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Hails Passage of WRRDA Bill Washington, D.C - Today, Congressman Sires proudly supported H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act, which passed unanimously out of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA)—legislation responsible for authorizing the water resources program of the Army Corps of Engineers—for the first time since 2007. “Passage of a new WRDA bill is good for New Jersey’s 8th district, and for our nation,” Congressman Sires said. “This bill will keep Army Corps projects moving forward, and contains important reforms to ensure a larger share of money generated for harbor maintenance by New Jersey’s ports stays right here in New Jersey.” H.R. 3080 will now move to the House floor for consideration. ###
09.12.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 12, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Meets with Federal Officials to Discuss Stricter Commuter Bus Regulations (Washington, D.C.) –Congressman Albio Sires met with Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) Administrator Anne S. Ferro to discuss issues related to a recent bus crash in West New York, which resulted in the death of an 8-month-old girl. The FMCSA is the federal agency tasked with regulating commercial motor vehicles, including commuter busses. In the meeting, Congressman Sires expressed his concerns about ongoing safety violations by drivers of jitney busses throughout his district. “The accident that took the life of a baby girl in West New York this summer is clear evidence that gaps exist in our nation’s commuter bus safety policies. It is critical that we review the current business model, which requires busses to compete on the road for passengers, and we must supply law enforcement with the tools they need to ensure the rules of the road are being obeyed,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased to have begun a dialogue with regulators at the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and look forward to continuing our efforts to identify legislative solutions to improve safety for all of our nation’s commuters and pedestrians.” This meeting was held in response to an August 7th press conference with State Senator Nicholas Sacco (D-32), and several State legislators in West New York, New Jersey, in which Congressman Sires vowed to call for stricter regulations for drivers and bus companies.
08.29.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey for Congressman Sires 201-918-0033 Paul Brubaker for Senator Menendez 973-645-3030 August 29, 2013 SEN. MENENDEZ, REP. SIRES CONTINUE TO PRESS FOR ACTION ON TOURIST HELICOPTER TRAFFIC FOLLOWING SYMPOSIUM WITH FAA, LOCAL OFFICIALS, RESIDENTS OF HUDSON RIVER WATERFRONT COMMUNITIES Moonachie, N.J. – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez and U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (both D-NJ) expressed their appreciation to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Eastern Regional Administrator Carmine Gallo for keeping his commitment to hold a symposium on the impact of tourist helicopters this week, but urged federal authorities to take action to uphold the safety and quality of life of residents in New Jersey's Hudson River waterfront communities. “Administrator Gallo’s making good on his promise to hold a symposium on tourist helicopter flights is a step toward remedying the impact of tourist helicopters on New Jersey residents,” said Senator Menendez. “But this week’s symposium must lead to action that ensures the public’s interests are held in higher priority than commercial interests. This time to act is now, before a tragedy strikes. I am committed to exhausting every one of our options in providing our communities along the Hudson River the relief they need.” “It is very important that the concerns of the residents along the Hudson River waterfront be addressed,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased that FAA Administrator Gallo as well as the stakeholders involved took the time to come together to further look for solutions to solve this critical issue on behalf of the residents of my Congressional District. The business of having tourist helicopters at our expense is unacceptable.” The symposium held at Teterboro Airport on Tuesday, August 27, was called at the requests of Senator Menendez and Congressman Sires after a meeting of local residents, officials and FAA officials at the end of July. Among the nuisances reported at that meeting were windows rattling at day care centers, helicopter noise heard at 10:45 p.m., and tourist helicopters flying at altitudes half as low as they fly in New York City. This week’s symposium brought together a variety of aviation experts and stakeholders including FAA officials, representatives of tourist helicopter trade industry, law enforcement, and a representative of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and Chairman of Eastern Region Helicopter Council Jeff Smith. Many New Jersey residents attended, as well. Among the recommendations made to the FAA by Senator Menendez, Congressman Sires and the elected officials that represent the Hudson River waterfront are: requiring helicopters fly higher and further away from the New Jersey banks of the Hudson River, requiring helicopters to fly less frequently, improving the monitoring of flights over the Hudson River, and providing better helicopter flight security. Among the other elected officials present were Hoboken Mayor Dawn Zimmer, Guttenberg Mayor Gerry Drascheff, Weehawken Mayor Richard Turner, West New York Commissioner Carridad Rodriguez, Hoboken Councilwoman Beth Mason, representing Jersey City Mayor Steven Fulop Dominick Bauer and Hudson County Freeholder Chairman Anthony Romano. Administrator Gallo committed to reviewing the recommendations to see which agencies could best implement them and report back to the Senator, Congressman and other stakeholders within a month. ###
08.28.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 28, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Statement on the 50th Anniversary of March on Washington Washington, DC – Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington: “Today marks the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where Dr. Martin Luther King gave his historic “I Have A Dream” speech that inspired a nation. More than 200,000 people – of all races and backgrounds – came from all over the country to participate in the March, calling for fundamental social and economic justice for all Americans, at a time when many public facilities in regions of the country were still segregated. “ “Less than one year after the March, on July 2, 1964, President Lyndon Johnson signed the 1964 Civil Rights Act, into law. Then, a year later, on August 6, 1965, President Johnson signed the landmark 1965 Voting Rights Act, which has helped secure the right to vote for millions of Americans.” “Progress must continue. The first key step that Congress must take this year is to restore the power of the Voting Rights Act by enacting a legislative fix in response to the Supreme Court decision in June, which declared part of it unconstitutional. This legislative fix must fully protect the right to vote for years to come.” “We must ensure that ladders of opportunity are available to every American. By taking such steps as expanding early childhood education, making college more affordable, investing in effective job training, and raising the minimum wage, we can do much more to expand opportunity. We must continue to strive until Dr. King’s vision is finally realized and America fully lives up to its true promise and ideals.” ###
08.07.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 7, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires was joined by State Senator Nicholas Sacco (D-32), and several State legislators in West New York, New Jersey at a press conference at the scene of the terrible accident that took the life of eight month old Angelie Paredes. To prevent future accidents and improve public safety, the legislators called for stricter regulations for drivers and bus companies. ###
08.02.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 2, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Introduces Bill to Aid Commuters Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Commute Less Act, a bill that will provide employers with the tools and resources they need to give their employees real transportation alternatives, such as rideshare and telework programs, or shuttle services to connect business parks with transit stations. “Each year, the average American worker will spend 38 hours stuck in their cars commuting to and from work, at a cost of more than $800 annually,” said Congressman Sires. “We can enhance the quality of life for our commuters and reduce fuel consumption and hazardous air pollution by encouraging employers to create and expand commuter benefit programs.” Many Americans drive alone because they don’t feel like they have a choice in how they commute to and from work. However, employers who play an active role in promoting and providing transportation options for their employees can have a significant impact on how their employees travel to work. The Commute Less ACT of 2013 will help increase alternatives for commuters by leveraging private investment in transportation and facilitating a better connection between transportation planners, employers, and federal transportation dollars. “Evidence shows that when we involve employers in the transportation process, we can make a real difference for their workers. With many Americans still struggling to make ends meet and high transportation costs placing a significant strain on their wallets, we should be looking at smart ways to help our workers save money, spend less time in traffic, and more time with their families,” Congressman Sires remarked. ###
07.15.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 15, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Praises Grant to Support Homeless Veterans in New Jersey (Washington, D.C.)—Congressman Sires along with Congressman Donald Payne Jr. and (D-NJ) and Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) have announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will award a $2 million Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) grant to the non-profit organization, Soldier On. Funds will allow Soldier On to expand services that assist veterans who are at-risk of becoming homeless in Hudson, Essex, and Bergen Counties. “I am pleased to congratulate Solider On’s receipt of an SSVF grant and I thank them for their efforts in addressing the plight of homeless veterans. As our young men and women in uniform return from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan it is imperative that we do everything we can to help our veterans succeed” expressed Congressman Sires. The VA’s SSVF grant provides financial assistance to veterans and their families who at risk of losing their homes during times of financial difficulty and transitions in employment, allowing veterans to remain in their homes. In the past, Soldier On has been awarded three successful SSVF grants which serve 18 counties in New York, and Burlington, Monmouth, Middlesex and Ocean Counties in central New Jersey. On January 28, 2013, Rep. Sires along with Rep. Payne, Jr. and Rep. Pascrell wrote a letter to the VA’s Center on Homelessness Among Veterans National Director John Kuhn, detailing Soldier On’s request to expand services into Northern New Jersey. On July 11, 2013, the VA announced it will award Solider On $2 million to expand services into Hudson, Essex, and Bergen Counties. “I am proud to support Soldier On and thank my colleagues for their continual efforts in support of New Jersey’s veterans,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
07.11.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 11, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Rejects Dangerous Farm Reauthorization Bill Washington, D.C - Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 2642, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act, a 608 page bill that was hastily brought before Congress for a vote less than 24 hours after its introduction. For more than 40 years, legislation to reauthorize farm, conservation, and nutrition programs has been passed in a unified bill with overwhelming bipartisan support. However, for the first time, H.R. 2642 would strip the farm bill of the nutrition title, creating even greater uncertainty in the lives of millions of America’s most vulnerable citizens. A previous version of the FARRM Act recently failed to pass in the House of Representatives, due in part to the devastating cuts it made to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also known as the food stamp program.) H.R. 2642 passed in the House by a vote of 216 to 208. “This new version of the FARRM Act sets a truly irresponsible precedent, leaving no clear path forward for reauthorizing critical food aid programs. It is unconscionable to me that Congress would turn its back on millions of Americans, most of whom are working families and seniors that rely on these programs,” said Congressman Sires. The nutrition title in the farm bill provides funding for food assistance programs including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Emergency Food Assistance Program, and the Commodity Supplemental Program. These programs ensure that American families and seniors have access to the food they need, that our food banks are stocked, and that our children have access to a nutritious breakfast and lunch at school. “We owe it to our families, to our parents and children, and to our friends and neighbors across the nation to find a bipartisan path forward, not only for these vital nutrition programs but for the entire farm bill. At a time when so many Americans are struggling to make ends meet, it is more important than ever that we bring forward smart legislation that continues to fuel our recovery, while at the same time supporting those who most desperately need our help,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
07.09.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 8, 2013 201-918-0033 Congressman Sires holds press conference with Hudson County elected officials calling for ban on tourist helicopters on NJ side of the Hudson River (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires was joined by mayors and elected officials representing various municipalities along the Hudson River Waterfront. This press conference addressed the growing concern communities throughout the New Jersey 8th Congressional District has had regarding increased helicopter traffic, along with safety issues and quality of life impact. “The practice of having helicopters fly at lower altitudes creates a constant noise nuisance and safety issues for those in NJ living along the Hudson River,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased to have the widespread support of all the elected officials here today or their representatives, calling on the Federal Aviation Administration for a ban of tourist helicopter traffic along the New Jersey side of the Hudson River. As a member of the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will work with my colleagues to propose legislation on the need to restrict tourist helicopter traffic and work with the FAA to restrict these tourists’ aircrafts.” “The number-one priority must be safety, for those on the ground as well as for pilots and anyone who boards a tourist helicopter to see the sights along the Hudson River,” said U.S. Senator Robert Menendez. “Given the amount of tourist helicopter traffic over the Hudson, an FAA restriction of those flights over the river’s New Jersey side makes sense. I commend Congressman Sires and the local government officials he is working with for proactively taking this initiative before a tourist helicopter tragedy occurs in New Jersey.” “I strongly support the efforts of my good friend, Congressman Albio Sires, to reduce the quantity and improve the safety of helicopter traffic within the Hudson River air corridor,” said Hudson County Executive Tom DeGise. “The tourism industry’s desire to buzz by landmarks shouldn’t trump the rights of our waterfront residents to enjoy their homes in peace. And surely safety must take precedence over profit when it comes to regulating local airspace. I urge Congressman Sires’ colleagues on the House Transportation Committee, the FAA, and the Department of Homeland Security to heed his call for new, smarter regulations.” “It’s time for a ban on tourist helicopters the New Jersey side of the Hudson River. They bring no benefit to New Jersey while they fly too frequently, to low, and too loudly over our homes and parks,” said Mayor Zimmer of Hoboken. “Congressman Sires is completely correct in calling for the ban until such time that stricter controls are put in place by the FAA on these troublesome flights,” said State Senator and North Bergen Mayor Nicholas J. Sacco.”This is very simply a matter of protecting both public safety and the quality life of the residents living near the river.” Union City Mayor and NJ State Senator Brian Stack said, “During the course of the past few months, at the request of local residents, my office has written to the FAA, conveying concern with low-flying helicopters that cause disturbance and potential hazard. The recent crash demonstrates that stricter guidelines are needed in the immediate future and that the concerns of local residents were warranted.” “Helicopter traffic in Guttenberg has increased over the years----affecting the quality of life of my residents,” said Guttenberg Mayor Gerald Drasheff.”That is why I am supporting the efforts of Congressman Albio Sires for calling on the ban of tourist helicopters along the New Jersey waterfront.” “In the past several years, helicopter traffic—in and around West New York—has caused a major disturbance to my residents along the Hudson River Waterfront,” said Mayor Felix Roque. “I support Congressman Sires efforts to ban tourist helicopter flights over and near the town of West New York.” Bayonne Mayor Mark Smith, who has grappled with low flying aircraft issues over his city, supports Congressman Sires' efforts to enhance and improve helicopter safety for the entire county. "Whether we're talking about sightseeing flights over the Hudson or executive charters over Bayonne, our citizens deserve to be safe and sound in their own homes," said Mayor Smith. "The noise and sudden impact of these low-flying air craft adversely affects our citizen's quality of life." “The issue of low flying helicopters is a threat to the health, safety, and welfare of residents throughout Hudson County,” said Hoboken Councilwoman Beth Mason.”This is not about politics; it is about putting people first and putting an end to this dangerous practice. That is why I support Congressman Sires to call on the FAA to ban all tourist helicopter traffic." “I want to thank Congressman Sires for taking the lead on the important issues regarding the safety and quality of life for the residents of Weehawken pertaining to continued low flying helicopters along the shorelines of Weehawken and our neighboring towns. I look forward to working with him and my colleagues on this very important issue” said Weehawken First Ward Councilwoman Carmela Silvestri Ehret. “I want to thank Congressman Sires and Senator Menendez for making the safety and quality of life of their residents their number one priority. As a member of the law enforcement community and the Hudson County Board of Freeholders, I am very aware of the concerns the residents have regarding the recent increase of tourist helicopters along the NJ side of the Hudson River,” said Freeholder Anthony Romano. “I look forward to working with Congressman Sires to call on the FAA to restrict tourist helicopter traffic.” ###
07.02.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 1, 2013 201-918-0033 (Washington, D.C.) - This weekend’s helicopter crash on the Hudson River highlights once again the need for improved safety and stricter standards of the air-tour industry. Congressman Sires held a meeting today with Mayor Dawn Zimmer, Councilwoman Beth Mason of Hoboken and Freeholder Anthony Romano, as well as elected officials of Weehawken to request a ban on the helicopter tourist industry and also the concern both communities have regarding the increased helicopter traffic, safety issues and quality of life impact. "Tourist helicopters are completely out of control," said Mayor Zimmer. "They are too frequent, too low, and too loud, and we need a mitigation plan along with the assistance of the Department of Homeland Security that puts the quality of life of our communities before New York's tourism interests." "The health, safety, and welfare of residents is the number one priority of elected officials. I am proud to work with Congressman Sires to find a solution that will stop the dangerous practice of tourist helicopters flying over our neighborhoods" said Hoboken Councilwoman Beth Mason. “The recent crash that took place this past Sunday on June 30, 2013 is another example of the need for stricter regulations banning helicopters along residential areas in Hudson County.” said Sires. “We must do more to prevent these types of terrible accidents and increase efforts to drastically improve safety before another tragedy takes place similar to the crash in 2009.” While the Federal Aviation Administration has taken steps to improve the safety of the air-tour industry, several accidents have still occurred. The National Transportation Safety Board has repeatedly urged the FAA and tour operators to improve safety. The helicopter traffic along Hudson County has increased significantly; the helicopters are flying very low and very close to the shore line along the Hudson River. “I want to thank Congressman Sires for taking the lead on the important issues regarding the safety and quality of life for the residents of Weehawken pertaining to continued low flying helicopters along the shore lines of Weehawken and our neighboring towns. I look forward to working with him and my colleagues on this very important issue” said Weehawken First Ward Councilwoman Carmela Silvestri Ehret. “Having helicopters fly at lower altitudes creates a constant noise nuisance and safety issues for those in New Jersey living along the Hudson River. With 20,000 helicopters and other aircrafts flying over the area, the FAA needs to do more to regulate this traffic. As a member of US House of Representatives Transportation Committee I will continue to work with my colleagues and the FAA to ensure these actions move forward for the safety of residents in my District.” ##
06.27.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 27, 2013 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires’ Statement on Senate Passage of Immigration Bill (Washington, D.C.)—Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement on Senate passage of S.744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act: “I am pleased that the Senate has passed bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform. While not perfect, the passage of the Senate bill is a positive first step toward reforming our broken immigration system. This bill addresses immigration reform in a responsible way and overhauls the most deficient aspects of our current system. It is my hope that House leadership brings S.744 to the floor for immediate debate—we have waited long enough for action and must not throw away this opportunity.” ###
06.26.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 26, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Cosponsors Legislation to Protect Overnight Delivery Standards Washington, DC- Congressman Sires along with 63 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives has cosponsored H.R. 2459, the Protect Overnight Delivery Act. This legislation, introduced by Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), would require the United States Postal Service (USPS) to continue overnight delivery standards. “This legislation plays a critical role in protecting a service millions of Americans rely on each day” said Congressman Sires.“Maintaining overnight delivery standards not only maintains the USPS’ ability to remain a viable means of communication in our evolving world, but protects the jobs of the thousands.” In September 2011, the USPS announced plans to consolidate its mail processing facilities by changing delivery standards on first class mail and periodicals. Proposals would change the 1 to 3 day service standard on first class mail and periodicals to 2 to 3 days. As a result, 508 USPS processing facilities around the country would close for consolidation. H.R. 2459 would require the USPS maintain 1 to 3 day delivery standards for first class mail and periodicals. “By maintaining the quality service standard that the USPS has come to be known for, thousands of jobs, processing centers, and postal facilities around the nation will be saved” said Sires. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation and I urge my colleagues in Congress to find a solution that not only strengthens the postal service, but protects jobs and invests in the workforce.” ###
06.20.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 20, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Rejects Drastic Cuts for the Food Stamp Program Washington, D.C- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act, because of its devastating cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also known as the food stamp program. In particular, the FARRM Act would slash the food stamp benefits by $20 billion. “The FARRM Act makes harmful cuts to the food stamp program- preventing food aid for nearly two million people who are mostly working families and seniors. Additionally, the bill would cut 210,000 children off of free school lunch and breakfast programs,” expressed Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires joined over 70 of his Democratic colleagues in sponsoring an amendment to the FARRM Act, led by Congressman Jim McGovern (MA), which would have restored cuts to the food stamp program. Unfortunately, the amendment did not receive enough votes to be including in the final version of H.R. 1947. The FARRM Act is the legislative vehicle that authorizes major federal farm programs. In addition to cuts to food stamps, H.R. 1947 would extend most major federal farm, rural development and agricultural trade programs through Fiscal Year 2018. H.R. 1947 failed by a vote of 195 to 234 in the House of Representatives. “I believe it is critical that Congress provides farmers and ranchers with the necessary tools to supply American consumers with a safe, abundant, and food supply, but I cannot support measures that achieve that goal by slashing nutrition assistance to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
06.18.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 18, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Introduces Bill to Revitalize Parks and Strengthen Urban Communities Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Community Parks Revitalization Act. This legislation is modeled after the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act, which he introduced in the 111th and 112th Congresses with strong bipartisan support. The Community Parks Revitalization Act would create federal, matching grant programs and secured loans to revitalize parks and park infrastructure. “In New Jersey’s 8th district, our parks and green spaces play a key role in creating vibrant, livable communities where people want to live and businesses want to invest,” said Congressman Sires. “With most Americans living in urban and metropolitan regions, it’s critical that we provide communities with the tools they need to create new or rehabilitee existing parks and recreation spaces.” This legislation would provide three types of federal grants and technical assistance programs which must be matched with local funds. Rehabilitation and construction grants would aid local governments in rebuilding and expanding new and existing parks and recreational facilities, while innovation grants would address personnel, facility, equipment, and supply needs for parks and recreation facilities. In addition, the innovation grant would provide funds for new or existing programs that provide opportunities for returning veterans and active duty military and their families, or programs that provide constructive alternatives for at-risk youth. Lastly, recovery action program grants would promote development of local park and recreation recovery action programs by involving the community and youth to develop priorities and goals. New to the Community Parks Revitalization Act is an innovative financing mechanism that would establish a program for secured loans and loan guarantees for the development of parks and recreation infrastructure. This program, modeled after the popular Transportation Infrastructure Innovative Financing Act (TIFIA), would allow either large scale projects such as trail systems, or multiple communities bundling multiple projects together, to take advantage of low cost financing. “At a time when many Americans are affected by deteriorating community infrastructure, this bipartisan legislation would help to create jobs, reduce crime, and create healthy, vibrant neighborhoods,” said Sires. “I have always been a strong supporter of creating livable communities, and public parks and recreation facilities help us achieve that important goal by improving health, revitalizing local economies, and creating neighborhoods where people want to live and work.” ###
05.10.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey, February 12, 2013 201-309-0301 Contact: Katrina Valdes (Diaz-Balart), 202-225-4211; Paul Brubaker (Menendez), 201-704-6891 Diaz-Balart and Sires Reintroduce Safe Building Code Incentive Act (WASHINGTON, D.C.)— Congressmen Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) and Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced legislation that would strengthen building codes and increase public safety. H.R. 1878, The Safe Building Code Incentive Act, provides a financial incentive to states that are proactive in adopting and enforcing nationally recognized model building codes. States that enact these building codes would qualify for an additional 4 percent of funding for hazard mitigation grants. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ). Diaz-Balart: “I am pleased to work with Rep. Sires to reintroduce The Safe Building Code Incentive Act. This legislation helps us protect and prepare our local communities and families in the event of a hurricane or other natural disaster. H.R. 1878 simply rewards good behavior, and incentivizes states to make communities safer by enacting these codes. It’s time we take proactive steps to encourage states to do more to save lives and hard-earned taxpayer dollars, while making homes and businesses more resilient to natural disasters.” Sires: “I am pleased to once again be an original cosponsor of The Safe Building Code Incentive Act. If the devastation from Hurricane Sandy has taught us anything in my region- it is that the damage could have been much worse had New Jersey not already had exemplary standards for building codes in place. Now is the time for every state to ensure that buildings are constructed in a manner that will not only stand the test of time, but stand up to the natural disasters that are bound to occur.” Menendez: “Given the frequency of disasters in the United States, having only 16 states complying with and enforcing the most up-to-date building standards is simply unacceptable. The Safe Building Code Incentive Act would provide to states enforcing the most current building codes with additional federal hazard mitigation funds after a disaster strikes. This will save lives, guard against property damage, and reduce the taxpayers’ burden following a disaster.” Original cosponsors of the legislation in the House also include: Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Norton (D-DC), Rep. Denham (R-CA), Rep. Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Rep. Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Gibson (R-NY), and Rep. Palazzo (R-MS). ###
04.26.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 26, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Votes to End Furloughs for Air Traffic Control Worker (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues in passing legislation by a vote of 361 to 41 that will make available up to $253 million in order to prevent additional furloughs of air traffic controllers. Earlier this year, devastating across-the-board cuts from the so-called budget sequestration were triggered as a result of House Republicans’ unwillingness to negotiate over a government spending package. If signed into law, the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 will give the Department of Transportation the authority to transfer unobligated funds from the Airport Improvement Program account to the Federal Aviation Administration Operations account. This action would end crippling air traffic control furloughs that are slowing passenger travel, reducing safety at our airports, and causing economic disruption to our still recovering economy. “I am pleased that Congress acted quickly, in a bipartisan manner, to solve this pressing issue,” said Congressman Sires. “While I would prefer an all-encompassing approach to solving the $85 billion budget sequestration, which has made harmful cuts to many vital government programs, I also believe we must seize this opportunity to increase the safety and efficiency of our air transportation system.” ###
04.24.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 24, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Joins Colleagues in First Freight Panel Hearing (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues at the first hearing conducted by the newly created “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation.” This bipartisan committee will meet over a period of six months, and is charged with examining the current role freight transportation plays in the U.S. economy and how the federal government can work to increase the efficiency, safety, and security of our Nation’s freight network. Testifying before today’s committee hearing were leaders representing our Nation’s shipping, truck, and rail industries, as well as our ports and freight labor. The panel of witnesses, which included FedEx founder Fred Smith, provided members with a strong overview of the current operation of our freight network, what challenges impact its performance, and what can be done to improve the efficiency and safety of freight transportation across all modes of transportation. “With the U.S. transportation system moving $18.8 trillion dollars worth of goods annually—a number that is expected to grow exponentially in the coming years—it is essential that law makers focus on the important need for bipartisan cooperation and policy making,” said Sires. “Congress faces many transportation infrastructure related challenges over the coming two years, but I believe that today’s hearing was a great step in the right direction.” The panel will convene again on May 15th to discuss freight policy with officials from the administration in a roundtable format. ###
04.18.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 18, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Introduces Bill to Honor Peace Corps Volunteers (Washington, D.C.)- This week, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.R. 1573, the Respect for Peace Corps Volunteers (RPCV) Act of 2013, with the support of his colleagues and former Peace Corps Volunteers, Congressmen Mike Honda (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Tom Petri (R-WI), and Joe Kennedy (D-MA). This bipartisan legislation provides a simple fix to the Peace Corps Act, affording former volunteers the dignity of using the name and logo of the Peace Corps in an obituary or on their gravestone. Under current law, unauthorized use of the Peace Corps logo, even for memorial purposes, carries the risk of a $500 fine or jail time. “Since its founding by President Kennedy in 1961, nearly 5,000 New Jerseyans have served in the Peace Corps,“ said Congressman Sires. “Their dedication to global service brings honor to my state, and I view this legislation as an earned right.” Many volunteers credit their experience in the Peace Corps with shaping the rest of their lives and careers. The Respect for Peace Corps Act will allow those individuals to freely memorialize their personal dedication to the spirit of the program. ###
04.17.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 17, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Appointed to Serve on Bipartisan Freight Subcommittee (Washington D.C.)- Congressman Sires was selected by leaders of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to join 10 of his colleagues for a special subcommittee charged with identifying ways to improve our nation’s freight transportation systems. Members for the subcommittee, entitled the “Panel on 21st Century Freight Transportation,” were named on Tuesday by Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), and Ranking Member Nick J. Rahall II, (D-WV). The committee will meet over a period of six months, beginning with their first scheduled hearing on April 24. “It is an honor to be selected to join my colleagues on this subcommittee,” said Congressman Sires. “Freight volumes are expected to more than double by 2040 to nearly $40 trillion annually, and in order to compete in a global economy, it’s critical that we find solutions to provide for the reliable, efficient, and safe movement of goods across our country.” Earlier this year, Congressman Sires introduced H.R. 974, the MOVE Freight Act, which would direct the federal government to ensure the various and essential modes of our freight network are accounted for and provide investment in freight transportation projects. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to continue bringing focus to an issue that is so vital to the health of our nation’s economy. I look forward to working with my colleagues over the next six months to identify concrete, bipartisan solutions to improve our freight network,” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
04.12.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 12, 2013 201-309-0301 SIRES INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO SUPPORT GLOBAL HEALTH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.R. 1515, the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act, to encourage the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. This bill will codify a program at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) that funds this type of research. “Each year, millions of people in the developing world die of infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The 21st Century Global Health Technology Act supports a long-term program to develop much needed health technologies such as safe injection devices, rapid diagnostics for diseases, technologies for safe delivery, and other innovative health solutions,” said Congressman Sires. Through USAID, the federal government is addressing the need for global health technologies by facilitating public-private partnerships to develop affordable and appropriate health technologies. The present Health Tech program has facilitated the development of 85 technologies in partnership with more than 100 private-sector collaborators who have matched federal dollars at least two to one. These collaborations expand research and development, help grow the economy and lead to job creation. To encourage and support USAID’s current efforts, the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act would codify the existing Health Tech program, and support a comprehensive, smart and deficit-neutral approach to research for new global health technologies at USAID. “I am proud to support this legislation, which will help effectively address health needs around the world, in a fiscally responsible manner that supports skilled jobs for American workers,” said Sires. ###
04.11.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 11, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Wants President to Intervene in Mortgage Relief Backlog Washington, DC- Congressman Sires and twenty eight of his Colleagues in the House of Representatives sent a letter to President Obama, urging him to issue an executive order, directing the U.S. Department of Treasury to carry out the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) and keep families in their homes. The Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) established the HHF in 2010. This program, administered by the Treasury Department provides $7.6 billion to states hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. Through the HHF, states are able to offer mortgage payment assistance, principal reduction, and funding to eliminate a homeowner’s second lien loans. However, now three years after the inception of the HHF, only 9.8% of this promised funding has reached actual homeowners. According to the most recent September 2012 data, more than half of the amounts drawn by states are being held by the Treasury Department as unspent cash-on-hand or used for administrative expenses. “The HHF was created with the purpose of providing direct relief to homeowners so families can stay in their homes and avoid foreclosure” said Congressman Sires. “These funds were promised to our nation’s homeowners, and it is critical that we take advantage of solutions that protect our fragile economic recovery.” “The key to economic recovery begins at home” said Sires. “The purchase of a home is the largest investment most families will ever make, strengthening our communities and helping to boost our economy.” ###
04.10.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 10, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Joins House Democrats to Focus on American Jobs Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires joined House Democrats to promote their continued focus on job creation by reintroducing the Make it in America plan. At today’s press conference, House Democrats highlighted how the plan will revitalize American industry and innovation, create jobs, and grow our economy by making progress in four key areas: developing a national manufacturing strategy, increasing manufacturing exports, encouraging businesses to bring innovation and jobs back home, and investing in training and securing the skilled workforce needed to support manufacturing in the twenty-first century. “Today we are putting forward concrete proposals that will reinvigorate our economy and help put more Americans back to work. The Make it in America initiative will create good American jobs by strengthening our manufacturing sector, bringing jobs back home where they are needed the most, and by giving our workforce the skills they need to compete in a global economy,” said Congressman Sires. “Our proposals address Americans’ top priority: creating jobs and growing the economy.” The Make it in America plan includes H.R. 974, the Multimodal Opportunities via Enhanced (MOVE) Freight Act of 2013, introduced by Congressman Sires earlier this year. This important legislation would strengthen America’s economy by creating a grant program to fund transportation infrastructure projects that help move goods to market more efficiently. Since launching the initiative in the 111th Congress, ten Make It In America bills have been signed into law that encourage manufacturers to innovate, grow, keep and create good jobs here in the U.S. For more information, please visit: https://www.democraticwhip.gov/issues/make-it-america. ###
03.14.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 14, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Introduces Legislation to Support a National Catastrophe Fund (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires recently introduced the Homeowners and Taxpayers Protection Act of 2013 (H.R. 1101) to create a national catastrophe fund that would control federal spending and save taxpayers money. “This bill changes how we pay for natural catastrophes from an after-the-fact emergency appropriation system to a planned, controlled approach,” expressed Congressman Sires. “With the recent events of Superstorm Sandy my state and my region in particular know the devastation these large-scale natural catastrophes bring to our citizens.” Specifically, this legislation creates a public-private partnership including a privately funded national catastrophe fund designed to respond to large-scale natural catastrophes. It improves on a previous proposal that passed the House several years ago with strong bi-partisan support from Members from more than 30 states. It would require pre-funding—exclusively private sector financing—for catastrophe losses to construct a backstop of accessible funds for when such devastating events occur. As a result, this legislation would drive down the cost of insuring all Americans, including those who live in areas with major catastrophe risk and encourage many more homeowners to be covered. In addition, the reserve fund created through H.R. 1101 would provide advanced funding to enable local public safety and emergency management organizations to enhance protection, improve planning, and mitigate the damage from natural catastrophes by enhancing building codes, land use planning, first responder training, equipment upgrades, and general consumer education. “There is a growing consensus in all areas of our nation that action needs to be taken now to address the weaknesses in our methods of planning for and responding to natural catastrophes. It is clear that we need a better way to provide relief funding without burdening taxpayers or stretching the federal budget,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
03.05.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 5, 2013 201-309-0301 Sires Introduces Bill to Strengthen National Freight Network and Protect American Jobs Washington, D.C. — On March 5, 2013, U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced new legislation to strengthen our national freight transportation policy by creating a national plan for moving goods efficiently by road, rail, water, and air. With the support of U.S. Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Corrine Brown (D-FL) and Grace Napolitano (D-CA) as original co-sponsors, the Multimodal Opportunities via Enhanced (MOVE) Freight Act of 2013 would direct the federal government to ensure the various and essential modes of our freight network are accounted for and provide investment in freight transportation projects. “With freight volumes expected to more than double by 2040 to nearly $40 trillion annually, it is imperative that our nation craft a strategic, all-inclusive freight policy that provides for the reliable, efficient, and safe movement of goods,” said Congressman Sires. Last year, Congress passed a two-year transportation bill known as MAP-21, which established a national freight policy and freight network to assist states in improving the movement of goods on highways. However, with an estimated $10.3 trillion worth of goods using multiple modes of transportation each year, it is critical that Congress plan for the efficient movement of freight across all modes of transportation. The MOVE Freight Act will expand the definition of the national freight network to include rail, navigable waterways, inland ports, seaports, freight intermodal connectors, airports, and aerotropolis transportation systems, helping to establish a truly modern freight policy and ensuring U.S. global competitiveness. In addition, this legislation will create a National Freight Infrastructure Investment Grants program. Eligible projects include port development, freight rail improvement, intelligent transportation systems, and other projects to improve goods movement. These competitive grants will be awarded to projects with the highest system performance improvement relative to their benefit-cost analysis. “Our transportation infrastructure is outdated and growing congestion has led to increased costs across the nation,” said Sires. “This legislation will update the current freight system to ensure our nation is prepared to compete in a global economy.” ###
03.04.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 4, 2013 201-309-0301 Senator Raymond Lesniak and Congressman Albio Sires Host Citizen/Immigration Workshop at Kean University with Special Guest Congressman Luis Gutierrez (Union, NJ) – On Saturday, March 2, 2013, Senator Raymond Lesniak and Congressman Albio Sires hosted a workshop for families and individuals on how to apply for United States Citizenship. This workshop focused on how to take the necessary steps in order to become a U.S. Citizen, and what applications need to be filed. Additionally, they discussed the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. “For centuries America has benefited from new citizens. The workshop helped those who want to be part of that heritage,” expressed Senator Lesniak. “I am pleased to have been joined here today by my friend and colleague Congressman Luis Gutierrez of Chicago as well as Senator Lesniak for hosting this informational session. It is important to provide our constituents with the proper information needed to obtain United States Citizenship,” stated Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires and Senator Lesniak were pleased to be joined by special guest speaker Luis Gutierrez of Chicago who sits on the House Judiciary Committee and Chairs the Immigration Task Force of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. "As we deliberate immigration reform in Congress, we are trying to lift barriers that exist today between the immigrants who work, live and raise families in the U.S. and that goal of eventually being able to apply for citizenship. For everyone today, citizenship is a difficult, expensive, but deeply meaningful process and I am inspired each time I meet aspiring immigrants who are starting that path. Congressman Sires and I want to ensure that today's immigrants, like every group of immigrants that has come before them, will be able to make a choice to be all-in as American citizens,” stated Congressman Gutierrez. The event was held at the STEM Building at Kean University in Union, NJ. ###
02.22.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 22, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Will Serve as Vice Chair for CHC Immigration Task Force (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires was selected by his peers on the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to serve as the Vice Chair of the Immigration Task Force for the 113th Congress. He has served as a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus during his entire tenure in the House of Representatives, beginning in 2006. “It is an honor to be selected by my colleagues in the CHC to serve as a leader for the Immigration Task Force,” stated Congressman Sires. “I look forward to working with Congressman Gutierrez who will serve as Chairman of the Task Force.” “In my capacity as Vice Chairman I am committed to working tirelessly toward common-sense, comprehensive immigration reform that serves America’s interests, promotes fairness and the rule of law and contributes effectively and meaningfully to our economic well-being and recovery,” expressed Congressman Sires. Other CHC Members serving with Congressman Sires on the Immigration Task Force include Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Congressman Joe Garcia (FL-26), Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Senator Bob Menendez (NJ), Congressman Ed Pastor (AZ-07), Congressman Pedro Pierluisi (PR), Congressman Filemon Vela (TX-34), and Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez (NY-07). ###
02.14.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 13, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires’ Testimony on the Bayonne Bridge Raise the Roadway Project (Newark, NJ) –Today, Congressman Sires released the following testimony regarding the Bayonne Bridge Raise the Roadway Project. On February 5, 2013, this testimony was presented at a public meeting held at the Bayonne High School Auditorium. “Since widening the Panama Canal became a topic of concern in 2009, I have given my total support to the raising of the Bayonne Bridge. I have participated in several press conferences including the initial study funding authorization by the Port Authority of NYNJ to review the various options, the announcement by Governor Christie, Port Authority Chairman Anthony Coscia, and Bayonne Mayor Mark Smith on the securing of $1Billion for the Bayonne Bridge solution, and the final decision by the PA on raising the Bridge roadway to accommodate super container ships (Post Panamax vessels). In addition, I have held two meetings with area elected officials and various stakeholders to update everyone on the status of the project. The issue is how best to provide for facilities that enable the super container ships to access Port Newark/Elizabeth and Howland Hook Marine Terminal. With the completion date of around 2016, the Panama Canal is being widened for the next generation of freight and cargo shipping. This new generation of post-Panamax container ships is more energy efficient, environmentally friendly and will result in less emissions per cargo container unit. As of now, the Bayonne Bridge Roadway is too low to enable these ships to access the affected port facilities. If they cannot access our ports, these vessels will need to make arrangements to other East Coast facilities and they will have no choice but to do so. It is imperative that this project move forward expeditiously for the following reasons. Firstly, there are 280,000 regional jobs at stake as a result of these port facilities. Secondly, the proposed solution is the least disruptive to the navigational channel, the environment, and surrounding neighborhoods. Third, the Bayonne Bridge historic arc is maintained and the proposed raising of the roadway still connects the existing New York New Jersey bridge approaches to local streets. Finally, this is the least costly alternative and very importantly, it is the shortest construction schedule. If the shipping industry does not see immediate progress on this issue, they will have no choice in the foreseeable future but to make arrangements to divert their shipping to other locations. Therefore, I strongly advocate that this project move forward and is approved as soon as possible, so that construction may begin and plans can be made to ensure that the regional economic benefits are not only maintained, but are increased. Our regional economy depends on it.” ###
02.13.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 13, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires’ Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union speech before Congress: “Last night, President Obama laid out his the agenda before Congress to prioritize job growth and debt reduction in a responsible manner. Like the President, I believe that the strength of our economy coincides with the strength of our middle class. America is built on the principle that no matter ones lot in life, every citizen should be offered the same opportunities to thrive. To that end, I was encouraged by the President’s proposals to expand pre-school education, increase investments in job training, and raise the minimum wage. I strongly believe that Congress must follow the president’s initiatives addressed last night to increase American manufacturing and improve our crumbling infrastructure, as ways to not only create American jobs, but to make us more competitive in the emerging global markets. Furthermore, it is imperative that my colleagues and I take note of the President’s advice to finally tackle the most pressing social issues facing our nation today by enacting comprehensive immigration reform and preventing further gun violence. Now is the time for Congress to come together in a bipartisan manner to create jobs, grow the middle class, and reduce our deficit in a manner that does not impact our nation’s most vulnerable citizens.” ###
02.08.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 8, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Presents Margot Camino with the Congressional Award’s Bronze Medal (Jersey City, NJ) – On February 7th, Congressman Albio Sires presented the Congressional Award’s Bronze Medal to Margot Camino of Perth Amboy, NJ. The Congressional Award, established by the United States Congress in 1979, recognizes young Americans who set and achieve goals in four key areas: personal development, physical fitness, expedition/exploration, and voluntary public service. Margot, a senior at Mount Saint Mary Academy, volunteered more than 100 hours for the Puerto Rican Association for Human Development (PRAHD) and organized a book drive for her school. She has tutored elementary school children after school and worked on her school’s spring production of GODSPELL. Additionally, she traveled to Old San Juan, Puerto Rico to gain a greater understanding of early Spanish architecture. Margot is a testament to how much one can achieve through hard work and perseverance and should stand as a reminder to us all that there are many ways we can better ourselves and help our community. At the time Margot was notified of her award, Congressman Sires represented Perth Amboy which was in New Jersey’s 13th Congressional District. Upon redistricting, he now represents New Jersey’s 8th Congressional District which no longer includes Perth Amboy. ###
01.31.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 30, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Supports No-Name Calling Week (Washington, D.C.)—In recognition of No Name-Calling Week, which took place from January 21-28, Congressman Sires became an original cosponsor of H.Con.Res 10, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of No Name-Calling Week. The resolution was introduced with bipartisan support by Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) to bring attention to name-calling and encourage our schools to launch a dialogue about ways to eliminate name-calling and bullying in our communities. “I’m eager to join my colleagues in Congress as well as over 50 participating organizations in support of this week-long event commemorating activities taking place in schools all across the country with the purpose of ending name-calling, bullying and harassment of all kinds. We must do everything necessary to ensure children across the country are able to learn in a safe and nurturing environment. As a former teacher I have seen first-hand the detrimental affects bullying and name-calling can have on our young people. I am committed to providing a safe and supportive educational environment for all children. When children feel free from the trappings of ridicule, name-calling and bullying, it fosters a better learning environment and promotes development both in and out of the classroom. No Name-Calling Week provides our teachers and students with a week dedicated not only to address how words can hurt others, but to also celebrate the differences found in everyone.” ###
01.24.2013	The U.S. House of Representatives launched a new website integrating the history of the House, the art and artifacts in the House Collection, and records and research materials dating back to the beginning of Congress. Visit the new website at https://history.house.gov/.
01.16.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 16, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Responds to President Obama’s Plan to Protect our Children and our Communities by Reducing Gun Violence Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the President’s plan to protect our children and our communities by reducing gun violence: “President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden outlined a plan to combat the growing epidemic of gun violence in our country. They outlined a comprehensive approach that protects the rights of law abiding citizens, deters violent offenders from having access to firearms and provides better resources to our teachers, law enforcement and mental health professionals to help prevent future mass shootings. I am encouraged the President’s proposal includes criminal background checks on all gun sales, a ban on military-style assault weapons and high capacity magazines, and strengthens law enforcement's efforts to stop the illegal gun market and enforce gun control laws that already exist. We need to explore every possibility to make schools, streets and communities a safe environment for our children and the time has come to take meaningful action. My office has received requests from constituents all across our congressional district to ask that we make every effort to help bring these proposals to the floor of the House of Representatives. In addition, Mayor Jeremiah Healy of Jersey City who was in Washington D.C. as a member of the bipartisan advocacy group Mayors Against Illegal Guns, visited my office to voice his support of the President’s efforts to curb gun violence through sensible legislation. In my capacity as a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to pass effective and overdue legislation to reduce gun violence.” ###
01.16.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 16, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Votes to Provide Additional Assistance to Sandy Victims (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 152, the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, to provide $50.4 billion in disaster relief funding to states hit hardest by Hurricane Sandy. The final bill, combined with the $9.7 billion in funding for the National Flood Insurance Program that was passed by the House last week, would equate to $60.1 billion in disaster relief funding for the New York and New Jersey region impacted by Sandy. “While I am disappointed by the drawn-out process surrounding the passage of this legislation, I am pleased that local municipalities and victims of Sandy will finally be assured of the relief they need and know that help is on its way,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, H.R. 152 is comprised of two separate components- an amendment offered by Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) to provide $17 billion in Sandy relief funds, and an amendment offered by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ) to provide an additional $33.4 billion in Sandy relief funds. As amended, H.R. 152 would provide $50.4 billion in Sandy relief funding, including $11.5 billion for the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund and $16 billion for Community Development Block Grants to help municipalities rebuild property damaged by the storm. The bill also provides $5.4 billion for the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and an additional $5.5 billion for the FTA mitigation funds to repair our transportation infrastructure in a manner that prevents similar destruction from a natural disaster like Sandy in the future. $118 million would also be provided to Amtrak, whose service was knocked out for several days as a result of Sandy. “The damage done by Sandy is far beyond the resources and capacity that any single state possesses to recover on its own. Tens of thousands of New Jerseyans impacted by Sandy are still without permanent housing, and hundreds of municipalities are looking to rebuild- this funding will help our communities prosper once again,” stated Congressman Sires. H.R. 152 is now under review in the Senate. ###
01.15.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 15, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Lauds Muslim Cultural Collection Awarded to Hudson County Community College Library (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires congratulated Hudson County Community College on the receipt of a Muslim Journeys Bookshelf, awarded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Hudson County Community College was one of 842 recipients across the country to receive a collection of 25 books, 3 films, and access for one year to comprehensive online resources. The collection, developed by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the American Library Association, was created to address the need for reliable resources on Muslim beliefs and cultural heritage. “This addition to Hudson County Community College’s library provides an excellent opportunity to increase our understanding of one of the world’s most prolific cultures. In what can sometimes feel like an increasingly divided world, I welcome this chance to broaden our understanding of different points of view,” expressed Congressman Sires. The Muslim Journeys Bookshelf is the first in a series of Bridging Cultures collections that will be made available to highlight the importance of civility in American life and to bring attention to the important role libraries play in promoting conversations about humanities at the community level. ###
01.15.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 15, 2013 201-309-0301 Congressman Sires Announced as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires was selected by his peers on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to serve as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere for the 113th Congress. Congressman Sires previously served as a member of the Subcommittee during his entire tenure in the House of Representatives since 2006. “It is an honor to be selected by my colleagues to serve as the lead Democrat on a Subcommittee that oversees a portion of the world that is not only strategically critical for our foreign agenda, but a part of the world that is deeply personal to me and many of my constituents. In my capacity as Ranking Member I look forward to continuing to strengthen relations with both our Canadian and Latin allies to ensure the prosperity of the Hemisphere, as well as work with Chairman Salmon to examine the challenges we face in our backyard, ” expressed Congressman Sires. The Subcommittee in Western Hemisphere has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the countries in South America, North America, and the Caribbean. Other Democrats serving under Congressman Sires on the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere include Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY), Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (AS), Congressman Theodore Deutch (FL), and Congressman Alan Grayson (FL). ###
01.15.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 15, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Expedite Disaster Assistance for Hurricane Sandy (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires supported the passage of the bipartisan Sandy Recovery Improvement Act (H.R. 219), which will help streamline disaster recovery efforts in New Jersey. “I am proud to join my colleagues as an original cosponsor of the bipartisan Sandy Recovery Improvement Act, which passed in the House last night by a unanimous vote. This legislation builds on the important lessons learned after Hurricane Katrina, and provides key reforms to expedite the provision of disaster aid and streamline recovery and mitigation efforts,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, this bill allows the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to issue fixed price grants instead of its traditional reimbursement program. The change is meant to give states and localities quicker access to financial aid and greater flexibility in how money is spent in exchange for bearing the risk of cost overruns. The Sandy Recovery Improvement Act will also help expedite the construction of critical mitigation projects in New Jersey by dedicating additional resources to the environmental review process and providing advanced hazard mitigation funding to the state. In addition, the legislation will provide reforms to FEMA housing policies, allowing the agency to fund limited repairs to people’s homes in order to house disaster victims if that proves more cost effective than the temporary housing typically offered. “Not only does this bill speed up the delivery of emergency funding to the region, but it will also ensure the expeditious construction of hazard mitigation projects in New Jersey so that we do not find ourselves in this same position the next time we are faced with a major disaster. A full recovery means that all New Jerseyans feel secure in their homes and communities, and this bill is a strong step in that direction,” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
01.08.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 8, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Reintroduces Legislation to Expand Research for Tourette Syndrome (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires reintroduced H.R. 146, the Collaborative Academic Research Efforts (CARE) for Tourette Syndrome Act to expand and further coordinate efforts towards research for Tourette syndrome. This bill would promote activities at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) aimed at combating and diagnosing Tourette syndrome. “Tourette syndrome continues to be a misunderstood disorder that is too often stigmatized, I am eager to reintroduce legislation that will work towards helping the lives of those affected by this syndrome” stated Congressman Sires. “While symptoms can be suppressed overtime, too many individuals, particularly children, face the everyday challenge of trying to manage tics whether at school or in various social settings. Expanded and collaborative research can teach us more about the cause and treatment of the disorder to help improve the lives of those individuals impacted by Tourette syndrome.” Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics. The NIH estimates that 200,000 Americans suffer from the most severe form of Tourette syndrome, while as many as one in 100 exhibit milder symptoms such as chronic motor or vocal tics. Although symptoms continue for many through adulthood, the disorder generally peaks in severity during childhood. The CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act would seek to improve the daily life of those living with Tourette syndrome and their families by expanding and coordinating research efforts on the disorder to advance our understanding of the syndrome. Specifically, this bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a new system to collect data on Tourette syndrome, including the availability of medical and social services for individuals with Tourette syndrome and their families. It would also instruct the Secretary of HHS to award grants to public or nonprofit private entities to establish new Centers of Excellence focused on Tourette syndrome research. Such Centers would be established on a regional basis, and would conduct research, including investigations into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control and treatment of Tourette syndrome. “I am proud to reintroduce the CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act and bring to the forefront the need for an increased commitment to preventing and treating this disorder. It is my hope that through this legislation, we can grasp a better understanding of Tourette syndrome and in turn, help enhance the lives of so many,” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
01.03.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 3, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Legislation to Create Universal Accreditation for Intercountry Adoptions is set to Become Law Washington, DC - The House of Representatives unanimously passed the Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012, introduced by Congressman Sires. This bill would combat fraud and improve transparency by requiring accreditation for all intercountry adoption service provides. In 2008, the United States became a full member of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Inter-Country Adoption. Under the Convention, the United States requires that intercountry adoption service providers be accredited to increase their accountability. Currently, this requirement only applies to adoptions involving countries that have also signed and implemented the Convention. “Under current law, adoption agencies who work with non-Convention countries do not need to meet the accreditation requirements, and this creates a double standard for the treatment of children and families,” said Congressman Sires. “My legislation will strengthen U.S. adoption practices by requiring accreditation for all intercountry adoption service providers. Universal accreditation will help create an adoption process that is lawful, safe for the child, and respectful of the families involved.” As the House passed the Senate companion legislation (S. 3331), the Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012 has now been sent to the President’s desk for his signature to be enacted into law. ###
01.02.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 2, 2013 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires’ Statement on House Leadership’s Decision to Pull Sandy Disaster Aid Bill (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to Speaker John Boehner’s decision to not bring up the Senate passed Sandy disaster assistance package before the end of the 112th Congress: “I am severely disappointed that Speaker Boehner has opted to not bring the Sandy disaster assistance package that recently passed the Senate to the House floor for an up or down vote. Failure to bring this bill to the floor by the end of the 112th Congress in its final hours means that we will have to start all over again in the new Congress and draft a new bill. The victims of Sandy have already waited over two months to receive the necessary aid from the government to help them rebuild and recover. This lack of sensitivity to our region and victims of the storm shown by the Republican leadership is unprecedented. Congress has always come together after natural disasters to immediately provide the necessary assistance to help communities recover and rebuild. Two weeks after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast- Congress approved more than $62 billion in federal aid. One month after Hurricanes Ike and Gustav hit Texas- Congress approved more than $20 billion in aid. It is truly shameful that the House Leadership will not even bring to the floor the Senate approved disaster assistance package requested by the President to help victims of Sandy. The damage done by Sandy is far beyond the resources and capacity that any single state possesses to recover on its own. The current recovery funding for New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut will run out soon, and without this supplemental disaster assistance package residents and businesses that lost everything in the storm will not have the aid to help them recover. I urge Speaker Boehner to reconsider his decision and bring up this critical package to the floor before the 112th Congress comes to a close.” ###
01.02.2013	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 2, 2013 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Make Middle Class Tax Cuts Permanent (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires supported the passage of the American Taxpayer Relief Act, H.R. 8, to make tax cuts for the middle class permanent. In addition to keeping income taxes low for the middle class, this bill also makes investments in education, clean energy, and manufacturing that create jobs and strengthen. “While the process involved in this legislation was not perfect, it is imperative that Congress came together to provide tax relief for a majority of Americans. This bill not only permanently extends the middle-class tax cuts, but it extends credits for working families to help provide economic certainty during these difficult times,” stated Congress Sires. Specifically, families with income under $450,000 and individuals with $400,000 will not see an increase in their tax rates in 2013. Additionally, the bill extends the expansions of the Child Tax Credit, Earned Income Tax Credit, and the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which helps families pay for college. The agreement also prevents two million people from losing their UI benefits by extending emergency unemployment insurance benefits for one year. Furthermore, the legislation protects seniors’ access to their physicians by preventing a scheduled reduction in Medicare payments to doctors. “Not only does this agreement assist American families, but it also continues to provide tax relief to American businesses. In particular, it extends the Production Tax Credit, a key incentive for renewable energy and manufacturing to boost job creation, as well as the Research and Experimentation tax credit to help keep America globally competitive, ” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
12.18.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 18, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires’ Statement on the National Discussion for Arming School Teachers (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to a growing national conversation on arming our nation’s teachers, highlighted by Governor Rick Perry’s (R-TX) public statement that alluded to allowing school districts to decide whether teachers can carry weapons in the classroom: “Governor Perry’s statement today at a meeting of a local Tea Party chapter is a prime example of the type of irresponsible reaction by the right-wing gun loyalists. As a former teacher, I know first-hand that the short-sighted notion of arming our teachers is not the answer to preventing mass shootings like that in Newtown. Teachers are first and foremost educators of our children- not local law enforcement agents. They are expected to be role models teaching our children understanding, civility, and tolerance. What sort of example would be set when a student looks up at the blackboard and notices a gun strapped to their teacher? Security initiatives must be left in the hands of law enforcement professionals. Coming from an urban environment, I know the challenges of ensuring that our children are safe in the classroom. Congress needs to look at solutions that work in the 21st century at preventing gun violence in our schools, such as banning military assault weapons that were meant for combat in war zones- not on Main Street.” ###
12.06.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 6, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Announces Additional $10 Million Emergency Relief Funds Post Hurricane Sandy Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration is awarding the state of New Jersey yet another $10 million dollars in emergency relief funding to reconstruct highways and roads that were impacted by Hurricane Sandy, which reached New Jersey on October 29, 2012. Sires stated: “I’m thankful that we can rely upon the Department of Transportation to provide financial assistance which will allow our state to quickly restore our bridges and roads. Hurricane Sandy brought much destruction and with these funds, we can rebuild our New Jersey communities and restore our infrastructure.” “The additional $10 million in emergency relief funds will enable our state to move quickly and efficiently to restore transportation in the region.” ###
11.20.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 20, 2012 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires announced that New Jersey residents impacted by Hurricane Sandy will receive additional emergency food assistance. Many residents of the New Jersey counties most severely impacted by Sandy, including Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, and Union counties, will be eligible to receive Disaster Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (D-SNAP) benefits to help cover the costs of food. Current food stamp beneficiaries will directly see a supplemental benefit on their Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) card, while other individuals will be able to apply for D-SNAP benefits to relieve food costs associated with Sandy. “Many families devastated by Sandy were already struggling to make ends meet prior to the storm- now they are even more vulnerable,” stated Congressman Sires. “This emergency federal aid will help these individuals and others on the road to recovery feed their families.” Specifically, current food stamp recipients for the eligible counties do not need to apply for D-SNAP because they have already received a 30 percent October replacement allocation on their EBT card and will also receive a supplemental benefit by December 7, 2012. Other individuals can begin to apply for D-SNAP benefits on Monday, November 26th. Eligible recipients will receive their benefits on an EBT card that may be used for the purchase of grocery food items. To apply, applicants will need to go to the D-SNAP location in their own county and provide: identification and proof of residency; pay stubs and bank statements from October 28th through November 26th; and receipts that show more than $100 spent on disaster-related expenses between October 28th and November 26th. For more information on eligibility and the application process for D-SNAP, please visit www.njsnap.org. ###
11.20.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 20, 2012 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires sent a letter to President Obama requesting additional funding for federal disaster assistance programs, as well as an extension of the 100 percent cost share of disaster assistance to states and local governments by the federal government. The letter was sent as a result of diminishing funds available in the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)’s Disaster Relief Fund. “Tropical Storm Sandy took the lives of more than 100 Americans, destroyed homes and businesses, crippled infrastructure and devastated a large portion of the East Coast,” expressed Congressman Sires. “We must rebuild our communities in the most efficient manner possible- we cannot wait years for the restoration to begin. It is imperative that more funding is readily available to local and state governments to cover the necessary costs for complete recovery.” Specifically, Congressman Sires urged the Office of Management and Budget to submit an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2013 budget request, pursuant to the Budget Control Act, to provide emergency aid for federal disaster assistant programs. Additionally, it was requested that the Administration extend current provisions for 100 percent reimbursement for a full 30 days after the disaster and expand these provisions to cover all direct federal assistance. The letter also advocated for the President to take into consideration the full scope of recovery assistance when preparing the Fiscal Year 2014 budget proposal. “A full recovery will require disaster assistance programs through a number of agencies and departments across the entire federal government- not just FEMA,” stated Congressman Sires. “In addition to providing increased and immediate monetary assistance now, it is critical that in preparation for the Fiscal Year 2014 budget, the President and Congress must factor in the financial resources that will be necessary to meet ongoing recovery needs.” ###
11.01.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 1, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Announces $10 Million Department of Transportation Dollars Post Hurricane Sandy Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration is awarding the state of New Jersey $10 million dollars in emergency relief funding to reconstruct highways and roads that were impacted by Hurricane Sandy, which reached New Jersey on October 29, 2012. Sires stated: “After the devastating impact that Hurricane Sandy has had in our state, I am pleased and grateful that the federal government has stepped in quickly to provide emergency monetary relief. We must begin to rebuild and repair our roads and highways in a smarter way. More planning must be done so that we are prepared for the next natural disaster. “New Jersey was hit the hardest by this severe hurricane. These federal funds will allow us to make repairs to our highways and roads, and bring our state back to normalcy.” ###
10.31.2012	Assistance in the Aftermath of Hurricane Sandy Hurricane Sandy was an unprecedented storm that left a devastating impact on our communities in New Jersey- damaging homes, businesses, and leaving millions without power. Hudson, Essex, Middlesex, and Union counties in particular, were hit hard by Sandy. As we look to rebuild, I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress, as well as state and local leaders to ensure that New Jersey has the necessary resources for recovery. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has announced that federal disaster aid has been made available to the State of New Jersey, including direct federal assistance, for Atlantic, Cape May, Essex, Hudson, Middlesex, Monmouth, Ocean, and Union counties (for eligibility, check the SBA Fact Sheet). New Jersey residents and business owners in these counties may apply online for federal assistance at www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). In addition, small businesses in the above counties are eligible for both Physical and Economic Injury Disaster Loans from the Small Business Administration (SBA). To determine if you are eligible please review SBA’s eligibility requirements. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Should individuals have difficulty in this process please do not hesitate to contact my office with questions or concerns.
10.22.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 22, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Congratulates the Bayonne Fire Department at the Groundbreaking of the New Bayonne Firehouse Bayonne, NJ - Congressman Sires spoke at a press conference announcing the groundbreaking for a new firehouse this morning in Bayonne. He joined U.S. Senator Bob Menendez, Bayonne Mayor Mark Smith, Council President Terrence Ruane, Bayonne Public Safety Director/Assemblyman Jason O'Donnell and Bayonne Fire Chief Greg Rodgers along with host of City Officials. The Harbor Station Fire House will be located on Peninsula at Bayonne Harbor Chosen Few Blvd. The Bayonne Fire Department received $3.5 million dollars through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to build the new fire house. Congressman Sires was happy to have joined Senator Menendez in supporting Bayonne's application for this grant, and he is pleased that the Department of Homeland Security recognized the value of this project to the 13th Congressional District’s security and economic growth. Under the Fire Station Construction Grant program, Bayonne was awarded the 6th largest grant in the country. Once constructed, the new firehouse will consist of 15,000 square feet, designed to accommodate eight fire trucks. It will also house a decontamination shower, a training room to assist in meeting the increasing educational requirements post 9/11 and offers all basic requirements of a twenty-four hour fire station. Since his time in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Sires has always been a proponent of public safety and security of the 13th District. “Firefighters are dedicated and selfless public servants who are committed to the safety of their community. This facility will provide them with the necessary tools to serve the residents of Bayonne,” said Congressman Sires. ###
09.21.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 21, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Introduces Taxpayer Protection Act Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced H.R. 6477, the Taxpayer Protection Act. This legislation would create financial mechanisms to ensure that every household can afford insurance and that all families and communities have the means to rebuild and overcome the devastating effects of natural disasters. “In the past few months, New Jersey and the rest of the country have suffered severe summer weather. Last year, Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee caused damaging flooding hurting our communities and causing millions of dollars in damages,” said Congressman Sires. “Often, the government aids communities through supplemental disaster funding after the storms hit. This policy is unpredictable. It negatively impacts our national budget and can waste taxpayer dollars.” Specifically, the bill would establish a federal catastrophe fund where eligible states can purchase reinsurance that provides extensive and affordable protection. H.R. 6477 also provides funding for mitigation and disaster preparedness. Similar legislation has previously been introduced in Congress and has received large bipartisan support. H.R.6477 builds on the success of the previous bills by adding several new provisions to improve its effectiveness. The new legislation ensures that the fund is fully paid for without taxpayer dollars, the bill creates a commission to enhance program oversight, and the bill includes language to support proper land use, among other improvements. “Our country needs a long term, self-sustaining solution to prepare and recover from these luckily rare, but catastrophic events. We must come together now to create an insurance environment that protects all of us,” added Sires. ###
07.27.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 27, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Announces Justice Assistance Grant Funding to Hudson County Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs awarded Hudson County a Fiscal Year 2012 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) in the amount of $308,023. “Through this award, Hudson County will be able to support activities needed to prevent crime and make our neighborhoods safer,” said Congressman Sires. “JAG grants provide our local governments with the flexibility to use these funds in the best way to improve the local criminal justice system.” The Edward Byrne Memorial JAG program allows states and local governments to support activities such as law enforcement programs, prevention and education programs, crime victim and witness programs, and other programs to prevent crime. JAG funds are used according to local needs and can also be used to purchase law enforcement equipment to improve criminal justice services. ###
07.20.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 20, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Support the Troops and their Families (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires supported passage of H.R. 5856, the Defense Department Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2013, which passed the House of Representatives by 326 to 90. The bill would provide $519 billion for the Department of Defense budget in FY 2013, as well as funding for overseas military operations. “One of the most critical aspects of this bill is the assistance it provides to our troops and their families. In particular, this bill increases the pay raise for the troops, strengthens health care services for troops and their families, and provides $2.3 billion for family support and advocacy programs,” stated Congressman. Specifically, H.R. 5856 would provide all service members a pay raise of 1.7 percent, as well as an increase in the basic allowance for housing and the basic allowance for subsistence. This bill would also provide $33.9 billion for Defense health care programs for our troops, their families, and retirees. In addition, this legislation would increase funding for cancer research, medical facility and equipment upgrades, Traumatic Brain Injury and psychological health research, and suicide prevention outreach programs. Furthermore, H.R. 5856 also improves schools for military families by including $270 million to replace schools owned by local educational authorities or the Department of Education that are located on military installations. “Providing assistance to both our troops at home and abroad is the least we can do to show our admiration for all they do to protect our country and livelihood,” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
07.17.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 17, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Supports United States-Israel Security Cooperation Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires supported the passage of S. 2165, the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012, in the House of Representatives. The legislation reaffirms the U.S. commitment to Israel's security and expands military and civilian cooperation between the two countries. “Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons continues to threaten Israel and the stability of the entire region. It is more important than ever that the United States stay committed to working with our long time ally Israel to address common threats,” said Congressman Sires. “The United States must provide all the support we can to ensure Israel’s security.” Specifically, S.2165 expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should assist in Israel's defense and aid the negotiation of a peaceful settlement to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It extends loan guarantees to Israel and permits the continued transfer of surplus defense materials. The bill also requires the President to submit reports to Congress, including reports regarding Israel’s military edge in the region and Israel’s need for F-35 aircraft. Congressman Sires is a cosponsor of similar legislation, H.R. 4133, which passed the House of Representatives earlier this year. S. 2165 passed the Senate by voice vote on June 29, 2012 and now awaits the President’s signature in order to become law. ###
07.11.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 11, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Opposes Additional Efforts to Repeal Health Care Reform (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 6079, the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act, to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which was enacted into law two years ago. The bill would repeal important benefits of the ACA, which was recently upheld as constitutional by the Supreme Court. “The Affordable Care Act is comprehensively reforming our health care system to ensure that every American has access to quality and affordable health care. Repealing this groundbreaking law would have devastating impacts on the 13th District,” stated Congressman Sires. “Since enactment, the law has already benefited seniors, young adults, and small businesses, including 132,831 Medicare beneficiaries in New Jersey that received a $250 rebate to help cover the cost of their prescription drugs.” In March 2010, Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act to reform our nation’s struggling health care system. Since enactment, millions of Americans are already benefitting from this law. In particular, insurers are no longer permitted to discriminate against those who are sick, including up to 17 million children nationwide; small businesses are receiving billions of dollars in tax credits to provide health care coverage for their employees; and seniors are saving money on prescription drugs and receiving free preventative care through Medicare. In New Jersey, 985,987 Medicare beneficiaries would lose this important free benefit. In addition to abolishing these critical new benefits, H.R. 6079 would also eliminate the requirement that insurance companies spend 80 percent of premium dollars on benefits as opposed to administrative costs and executive compensation. 44,998 New Jersey residents with private insurance would lose $7,670,066 in rebates that are anticipated to be issued this summer as a result of this provision. Furthermore, by repealing the Affordable Care Act, 73,000 young adults in New Jersey would see their insurance provided under health care reform revoked. “This marks the second time that the majority has attempted to repeal the Affordable Care Act this Congress. The Supreme Court has upheld this law and now we must move forward and concentrate on legislation that supports jobs,” expressed Congressman Sires. “Our nation cannot afford to focus on efforts to revert back to a system where insurance companies’ needs were placed before people.” ###
07.10.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 10, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Support Veterans Washington, DC—On July 9, 2012, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 4114 the Veterans Compensation Cost of Living Adjustment Act and H.R. 4155 the Veterans Skills Jobs Act. Together these two pieces of legislation adjust the rate of compensation disabled veterans and their families receive in addition to recognizing the valuable skills gained while serving in the armed forces. “I am proud to support legislation that provides increased benefits to disabled soldiers. Also, H.R. 4155 allows our soldiers to build off their invaluable skills acquired during their time of service to our nation” said Congressman Sires. These bills ensure that our Veterans our able to acquire good paying jobs with their current skill set and that disabled members of the armed services are given the care they deserve.” H.R. 4114 would tie veterans’ disability compensation rates to the cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security benefits, ensuring that our disabled members of the armed services receive a cost of living adjustment, effective December 1, 2012. H.R. 4155 streamlines the federal certification process, making it easier for veterans to utilize the skills they acquired in the military to acquire federal licenses and obtain civilian employment. H.R. 4114 and H.R. 4155 passed the House of Representatives and are now under review in the Senate. ###
06.29.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 29, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes for Two Year Transportation Funding Bill Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012 by a vote of 373-52. This legislation authorizes highway and transit programs at current levels through September 2014. “While I would have preferred a surface transportation bill of a longer duration, I am pleased that we have passed a surface transportation bill with over two years of funding which will provide much needed certainty for New Jersey businesses and local transportation agencies,” said Congressman Sires. “Not everything in this legislation is what I hoped for, but ultimately this bill is necessary to maintain infrastructure that is critical to our economy, and is estimated to create or save more than two million jobs.” Under H.R. 4348, highways and mass transit programs will be funded at $120 billion and is fully paid-for. New Jersey is estimated to receive over $960 million each year for the next two years for federal-aid highway funding. Mass-transit program funding will remain level and transit safety will be strengthened through comprehensive safety plans. Project delivery will be streamlined and transportation programs will be consolidated from approximately sixty programs into four core programs. Additionally, the bill includes language to provide veterans preference for transit construction projects. “Construction workers in New Jersey will be able to get back to work, local agencies will be able to plan for large projects, and commuters will be safer,” said Sires. “This legislation finally ends the series of short term extensions, but now we must think ahead to 2014 when Congress will have to pass what I hope will be a more comprehensive authorization to better address our nation’s transportation needs.” ###
06.29.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 29, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Stop Student Loan Interest Rate Hikes Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing legislation by a vote of 373-52 to extend the current student loan interest rate of 3.4% for one year. Without Congressional action, the rate would have doubled to 6.8% by July 1st. “Now is not the time to financially burden our students who are seeking higher education,” said Congressman Sires. “Young adults have the highest unemployment rate of any group, and we have finally come together across the aisle to let them know that we are investing in their futures.” In 2007, Congress passed the College Cost Reduction and Access Act that reduced the fixed rate on subsidized Stafford student loans for undergraduate students from 6.8% to 3.4% over a four year period, and on July 1, 2012, this fixed rate was scheduled to expire. H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, included a provision that blocked the rate hike and is fully paid for. Loan rates for over seven million college students would have doubled, and each year of inaction by Congress would have cost a student borrower approximately $1,000 in additional payments. “An estimated 143,892 New Jersey students are expected to take advantage of student loans, and through this legislation,” said Sires. “While I would prefer that this extension be for a longer period of time, many New Jersey students will benefit from the 3.4% student loan interest rate over this upcoming year.” ###
06.28.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 28, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Responds to Supreme Court’s Decision on Affordable Care Act Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act is a groundbreaking law that is comprehensively reforming our health care system to ensure every American has access to quality and affordable health care. Since enactment, the law has already benefited seniors, young adults, small businesses and many others in New Jersey. Today, the U.S. Supreme Court announced that it has upheld the law. “Because of the Supreme Court’s action, our communities will continue to benefit under the Affordable Care Act. Currently, children with pre-existing conditions are receiving health care coverage, students are able to remain on their parent’s insurance plans, and seniors are saving on prescription drugs. Once fully implemented, the law will not only make affordable insurance coverage available for the millions of Americans in need, but the law will also reduce our nation’s deficit by over $1 trillion. “I commend the Court for this historic decision. As the new benefits of the health care law take shape, I will continue to fight any efforts to repeal this critical law.” ###
06.26.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 26, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Introduces Legislation to Create Universal Accreditation for Intercountry Adoptions Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), along with Representatives Janice Hahn (D-CA) and Donald Manzullo (R-IL), introduced H.R. 6027, the Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012. This legislation would combat fraud and improve transparency by requiring accreditation for all intercountry adoption service provides. In 2008, the United States became a full member of the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in Respect of Inter-Country Adoption. Under the Convention, the United States requires that intercountry adoption service providers be accredited to increase their accountability. Currently, this requirement only applies to adoptions involving countries the have also signed and implemented the Convention. “Under current law, adoption agencies who work with non-Convention countries do not need to meet the accreditation requirements, and this creates a double standard for the treatment of children and families,” said Congressman Sires. “My legislation will strengthen U.S. adoption practices by requiring accreditation for all intercountry adoption service providers. Universal accreditation will help create an adoption process that is lawful, safe for the child, and respectful of the families involved.” The Intercountry Adoption Universal Accreditation Act of 2012 was introduced as the House companion to S. 3331, introduced by Senator John Kerry (D-MA), Richard Lugar (R-IN), James Inhofe (R-OK), and Mary Landrieu (D-LA) on June 21, 2012.
06.25.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 25, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Congratulates Bayonne and Jersey City on Receiving COPS Hiring Program Grants Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Sires congratulated Bayonne and Jersey City on their receipt of COPS Hiring Program grants to hire or rehire law enforcement officers. The City of Bayonne will receive a grant for $1,125,000 to support nine positions, and the City of Jersey City will receive a grant for $1,875,000 to support fifteen positions. “The COPS Hiring Program helps ensure that our police departments have the officers they need to keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased to hear that this money will promote community policing in New Jersey and support local jobs.” The U.S. Department of Justice awarded nearly $9.5 million in COPS Hiring Program grants to aid police departments throughout New Jersey. Nationwide, the Department awarded grants to 221 local law enforcement agencies. A new provision under the grant program requires that this year’s new hires be military veterans. ###
06.25.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 25, 2012 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Responds to Supreme Court’s Decision on Arizona’s Immigration Law Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on Arizona immigration law SB 1070: “Today the U.S. Supreme Court struck down key parts of Arizona’s SB 1070 that would have gone beyond federal law to criminalize currently civil violations. Unfortunately, the Court upheld the discriminatory provision in the state law that promotes unjustified questioning based on stereotypes of what an undocumented immigrant looks like or sounds like. With similar laws pending in several states, it is critical that the full impact of SB 1070 be understood. Allowing SB 1070’s ‘show me your papers’ provision to go into effect will have devastating consequences on Latino communities throughout the country. “It is now more important than ever that Congress gets serious about passing comprehensive immigration reform to address our broken immigration system. The U.S. Government must also continue to exercise its authority to shape and enforce just and humane immigration policies.” ###
06.14.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 14, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES ANNOUNCES A NEARLY $3 MILLION GRANT TO THE NEWARK WORKFORCE INVESTMENT BOARD Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Newark Workforce Investment Board, Inc. has been awarded $2,998,899 from the Department of Labor’s (DOL) Workforce Innovation Fund grant. “Through the DOL’s Workforce Innovation Fund grant, New Jerseyans will be able to benefit from innovative employment and training opportunities,” said Congressman Sires. “These funds will go towards making workforce development programs more effective.” The goal of the Workforce Innovation Fund is to better assess the effectiveness of current workforce strategy and all grants include an evaluation component. The project evaluation will provide data for effective strategies in workforce development. Additionally, the Fund encourages partnerships with either specific employers or industries to develop programs that meet current and future skill requirements. “I am pleased that New Jerseyans will be able to benefit from this grant by receiving more efficient employment services to enable them to find employment,” said Congressman Sires. ###
06.07.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 7, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Announces Winner of Districts’ Congressional Arts Competition Jersey City, New Jersey- Congressman Albio Sires today announced this year’s 13th Congressional District Arts Competition winner, Amy Paraskeva from Bayonne High School. Paraskeva won the contest with her photograph entitled, “The Silenced,” an evocative piece that is both subtle and bold. Paraskeva’s artwork will hang in the halls of Congress for one entire year. The Congressional Arts Competition was open to high school students only, and each entry was to be original in concept, design, and execution. The Congressional Arts Competition is a yearly event sponsored by the Congressional Institute that enables young artists to be recognized and provide a medium for display to a large audience. The Congressional Arts Competition is one of the most celebrated and popular events in the House of Representatives. This year, our office received 46 pieces of art from all over the district. “This competition is a great opportunity for young aspiring artists to promote their artwork, get recognized for their skills, and get motivated to continue and create wonderful pieces of art,” Congressman Sires said. “Paraskeva’s photograph is amazing and I know it will resonate with many people in the halls of Congress.” Paraskeva’s grand prize was followed by our first runner up winner, Brianna Martinez from Woodbridge High School for her piece titled “Freedom,” a beautiful painting depicting unchained hands with butterflies, which will hang in the Washington D.C. office. The district office winners are Summer Rosenfeld from High Tech High School for her portrait “Color Revolution,” which will hang in the Jersey City District Office. Sandra Emily Talbot from High Tech High School for the drawing titled “Rules of the Road,” which will also hang in the Jersey City. Finally, the painting “Free Soul” by Carlos P. Valerino from Weehawken High School which will be on display at the West New York District Office. “This competition and the quality of the submissions serve as a reminder of the importance of art in our schools and in our lives. I am proud to have the opportunity to provide students with recognition on their work and I look forward to next year’s competition,” mentioned Congressman Sires. The artwork was reviewed by two great judges; Hudson County Community College Foundation Fine Arts Committee Chairman Benjamin Dineen and Andrea Siegel, Ph.D. the Coordinator for the Permanent Collection of Art at Hudson County Community College. ###
06.01.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 1, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Support Veterans Washington, DC- On May 31, 2012, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in The House of Representatives in voting in favor H.R. 5854, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013. This legislation would invest in veteran’s healthcare facilities and programs by providing funding through 2014. The bill passed the House by a vote of 407-12. “It is crucial that we continue to invest in programs the support and care for our veterans” said Congressman Sires. “I’m proud to support legislation that provides needed programs that help our veterans.” Specifically, H.R. 5854 provides funding for VA homeless assistance programs and costs. Additionally this legislation expands veteran’s mental healthcare programs, including programs assisting those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and suicide prevention programs. H.R. 5854 also includes funding to help VA healthcare facilities create an integrated electronic health record system that transitions records from an individual's active service in the military to the VA. “Those that have sacrificed so much for their country deserve the best possible care” said Sires. “This legislation would help ensure that no veteran is left behind when returning to civilian life.” At the present moment, H.R. 5854 is under review in the Senate. ###
05.17.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 17, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Supports Comprehensive Voting Rights Legislation Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Sires became a cosponsor of the Voter Empowerment Act, legislation that would modernize our voting system, ensuring fair and equal access to the right to vote. Specifically, the Voter Empowerment Act, introduced today by Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) would expand access to the ballot box, preserve ballot integrity by protecting against deceptive practices and intimidation, and ensure accountability by setting standards for voting machines to confirm accurate tabulation and confirmation of voter intent. “The ability to vote is a fundamental right guaranteed to every American, and it is imperative that any obstacles are removed,” said Congressman Sires. Recently, several states have introduced legislation restricting voter’s access to polls, including efforts to make voter registration more difficult and reduce early and absentee voting. The Voter Empowerment Act allows for easier access to the ballot by authorizing an online and same day registration option, and permitting voters to update their registration data onsite. Additionally, this legislation aims to eliminate any unfair and deceptive practices that disproportionally affect our service members, the disabled, and seniors by providing additional tools to alleviate any additional burdens for people with disabilities. “The Voter Empowerment Act is an important step in ensuring that our polls our open, free, and fair,” said Sires. I’m pleased to support legislation that increases voter access to polls and allows every American to exercise their right to vote.” ###
05.10.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 10, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Urges USPS to Keep Post Offices Open Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Sires along with 107 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives sent a letter to United States Post Master General, Patrick Donahoe, asking that post office closures be delayed until Congress passes legislation to reform the United States Postal Service (USPS). “Congress must pass legislation before any decision is made regarding USPS facilities” said Congressman Sires. “Any decision made prior to Congressional legislation undermines Congressional authority and jeopardizes thousands of jobs. The postal service affects the lives my constituents on the Thirteenth Congressional District and every American across our nation. Any decision must be made with careful consideration.” In 2011, the USPS announced that in order to address financial difficulties it would study 3,653 post offices around the country for possible closure. Any decisions regarding closures were to be announced on May 15, 2012. Recently, the Senate passed S. 1789, the 21st Century Postal Service Act of 2012, and the House of Representatives is considering postal legislation. “It is imperative that we find a solution to preserve six day service and the timely, dependable service Americans rely on. It is my hope that in the coming months, my colleagues and I in Congress create a plan that is in the best interest of the USPS and our nation.” ###
05.09.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 9, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Help Small Businesses Increase Exports and Create Jobs: Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in voting for H.R. 2072, the Securing American Jobs Through Exports Act of 2011. This legislation would provide long-term reauthorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank, giving small businesses access to guaranteed capital to keep American exports competitive. The bill passed the House by a vote of 330-93. “In today’s global market it is imperative that our small businesses are given the opportunity to succeed around the world” said Sires. “This legislation levels the playing field and ensures that American small businesses have the resources to compete globally.” The Export-Import Bank of the United States is the export credit agency of the United States. Specifically, the U.S. Export-Import Bank provides working capital guarantees, export credit insurance, and loan guarantees to small businesses looking to export goods in the global market. H.R. 2072 authorizes the U.S. Export-Import Bank until 2015. At the present moment, H.R. 2072 is under review in the Senate. ###
04.26.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 26, 2012 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 4816 the “Stop the Student Loan Interest Rate Hike Act of 2012,” which extends current student interest rates for one year and fully pays for the cost. “Student loan interest rates are expected to double in approximately three months, and I am very concerned about how such an increase would impact current and future students,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation is needed now to prevent students seeking higher education from being saddled with even more debt.” This legislation was introduced by my colleague Representative John Tierney (D-MA) and his colleagues on the House Education and Workforce Committee to extend the current rate of 3.4% on subsidized Stafford student loan rates for one year. Over 7 million borrowers are estimated to be affected by the increase on July 1, 2012. If this legislation is implemented, borrowers will save an average of $1,000 in loan repayment costs. H.R. 4816 is fully paid for by closing tax loopholes for oil companies. “I spent years as a teacher and understand first-hand how important education is to our youth and to our nation,” said Sires. “Middle class families are struggling and higher education must remain affordable. This legislation is needed to extend the 3.4% interest rate for one year responsibly, and I am committed to policies that keep college afford for years to come.” ###
04.25.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 25, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Promote Transparency and Accountability in Government Spending Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in supporting H.R. 2146, the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act (DATA Act). This legislation would promote accountability and transparency in federal spending by imposing universal reporting requirement for recipients of federal grants, loans, and contracts. The Bill passed the House by voice vote. “At a time when families across the nation are tightening their belts and living within their means, it is critical that the federal government do the same” said Congressman Sires. “I’m proud to support legislation that gives the American people confidence that their tax dollars are wisely spent and accounted for”. The bipartisan DATA Act limits federal agency travel expenses and requires agency spending information to be disclosed publicly on a single online platform. Additionally, H.R. 2146 places limits on spending for agency conferences and requires new reporting and public disclosure of conference costs and activities. H.R. 2146 is now under review in the Senate. ###
04.18.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 18, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES SUPPORTS EXTENSION OF SURFACE TRANSPORATION BILL Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 4248, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, which will ultimately allow the House and Senate to work together and reach an agreement on a long term transportation bill. The final vote was 293 – 127. “Passage of this bill brings us one step closer to passage of a long term transportation bill, which will allow Congress to focus on our most important issue - creating jobs,” said Congressman Sires. “For too long there has been extension after extension, and with the construction season upon us we must work quickly to finalize a long term transportation bill.” H.R. 4248 extends the current surface transportation bill, which expires on June 30, 2012 for another 90 days until September 30, 2012. The House and Senate will then be able to go to conference to reconcile differences between H.R. 4248 and S. 1813, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21), which was passed by the Senate on March 14, 2012. It is estimated that under MAP- 21, up to 1 million jobs will be created and 1.8 million jobs will be saved. “It is my hope that with passage of this bill, Congress is now prepared to work together to pass a long term transportation bill, invest in our infrastructure, and create jobs,” said Sires. ###
04.17.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 17, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES PROMOTES REGIONAL PARTNERSHIPS AT SUMMIT OF THE AMERICAS (Washington, D.C)- Yesterday, Congressman Sires returned from the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia where regional leaders met to discuss ways to bolster security and prosperity in the hemisphere. While in attendance, Congressman Sires was able to meet with the Presidents from Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Panama, and Guatemala, as well as a Colombian Congressional Delegation. “I was fortunate to attend the Summit and discuss with regional leaders the importance of our alliance and our ability to work together to empower the people of Latin America through education and access to electricity and internet services,” expressed Congressman Sires. “Connecting all peoples, especially those in rural communities, will help spread democracy and uphold human rights throughout the region.” Discussions also centered on the importance of increasing trade in the region in order to bolster job creation in America. At the Summit, President Obama announced that the Colombia Free Trade Agreement, which Congressman Sires supported last year, is set to go in effect on May 15. In addition, Congressman Sires met with business leaders from across the hemisphere where he spoke about such issues as the security of shipping containers that reach our shores. “The Summit was a great opportunity to not only speak about issues of importance to the region, but issues that directly impact the 13th District, including container and port security,” stated Congressman Sires. “I look forward to continuing discussions on these matters and others to improve security at home and abroad.” ###
04.13.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 13, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES TO ATTEND SUMMIT OF THE AMERICAS (Washington, D.C.)- Congressman Sires will be participating in a Congressional Delegation that will attend the Summit of the Americas on April 14 and 15 in Cartagena, Colombia. The Delegation led by Congressman Connie Mack (R-FL), will be attending the Summit to meet with leaders from the Western Hemisphere to ensure that U.S. priorities and those of our allies are clearly represented in order to bolster security and prosperity in the region. “I look forward to meeting with officials from across the Hemisphere in order to reaffirm our shared values and our commitment to the region. Specifically, I hope to discuss ways to increase trade in the region to create more jobs at home,” expressed Congressman Sires. “The Summit provides us with a unique opportunity to address continuing and new challenges facing the Americas and discuss the best path forward for increased prosperity.” This weekend, marks the Sixth Summit of the Americas, where this year’s theme will be “Connecting the Americas: Partners for Prosperity.” In addition to the Congressional Delegation, President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton will also be in attendance. ###
03.29.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 29, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO PROTECT MEDICARE AND THE MIDDLE CLASS Washington, D.C- Today, Congressman Sires voted against the Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Resolution (H.Con.Res. 112) submitted by Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) because of its misplaced priorities. In particular, the Republican budget would end the Medicare guarantee and shift costs to seniors while providing billions in tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans, Big Oil and special interests. “In addition to drastic cuts to domestic programs that support our most vulnerable citizens, the Republican’s budget ends Medicare as we know it by fundamentally transforming Medicare from a guaranteed benefit program into a privatized voucher program. It ensures that seniors pay more for health care because the vouchers they receive will not grow as quickly as health care costs,” expressed Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires did support the Democratic alternative budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2013. Although it failed to pass the House of Representatives, this proposal would preserve the Medicare guarantee, as well as maintain provisions that reduce seniors’ health costs, including closing the donut hole for prescription drugs and the new free preventive care benefit under Medicare, and protect Medicaid. It also would make permanent tax cuts for the middle class and call for the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share of income taxes, as well as repeal tax cuts for Big Oil and tax loopholes for corporations that are costing American jobs. “The Democratic proposal would protect the middle class and seniors access to health care. Unfortunately, the budget plan passed by the Republicans is a disaster for America’s seniors, middle class, families, and workers,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
03.27.2012	March 27, 2012 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood, Recently, President Obama issued the Executive Order on Improving Performances of Federal Permitting and Review of Infrastructure Projects, and I am writing to encourage the U.S. Department of Transportation to designate the Bayonne Bridge as a project of national and regional significance. In accordance to the Executive Order, the Department of Transportation and other Member Agencies shall submit a list of infrastructure projects of national and regional significance to the Chief Performance Officer (CPO), who chairs the Steering Committee on Federal Infrastructure Permitting and Review Process Improvement, by April 30, 2012. The Bayonne Bridge is located in my Congressional District and stretches 5,780 feet across the Kill Van Kull Channel to connect Staten Island with Bayonne, New Jersey. Currently the bridge has a height of 151 feet; however, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has initiated plans to raise the roadway to 215 feet. At this height, post-Panamax ships will be able to reach the Port of New York and New Jersey. With the expansion of the Panama Canal to be completed by 2014, raising the Bayonne Bridge has become a top priority for the region. The project is currently undergoing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process that has been initiated by the United States Coast Guard and it is expected to be completed this year. The Bayonne Bridge is an ideal candidate to be on the Department of Transportation’s list submitted to the CPO of the Steering Committee for several reasons. Raising the bridge roadway will ensure that the Port of New York and New Jersey remains the third largest port in the country, and the first largest port on the East Coast. Once the Panama Canal expands, it is necessary that the Port of New York and New Jersey be able to receive to accommodate these post-Panamax vessels. The construction project is estimated to create more than 3,300 annual jobs during the construction period of five years and generate over $350 million in total wages. Additionally, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has dedicated $1 billion in funding to raise the roadway, and compared with other alternatives, this solution is believed to minimize environmental and neighborhood impacts. Raising the bridge roadway is vital to both the region and the nation’s economy. Thank you in advance for your consideration of my request to list the Bayonne Bridge as a project of national and regional significance, and please do not hesitate to contact me should you have any questions. Sincerely, _________________________________ Albio Sires Member of Congress
03.27.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 27, 2012 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Expand Veteran’s Housing Assistance Washington, DC-- Today, Congressman Sires voted in favor of legislation to expand veteran’s housing opportunities. H.R. 3298, the Homes for Heroes Act would create a special assistant for Veterans Affairs within the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The bill passed the House by a vote of 414 to 5. “At a time when our veterans are returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the federal government must do everything it can to help those who have sacrificed for their country” said Congressman Sires. The Homes for Heroes Act would expand education and training programs that help our returning veterans find housing. It would also establish the Special Assistant for Veterans Affairs within HUD to serve as a liaison to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, as well as state and local officials, and nonprofit service organizations. Additionally, HUD would be required to submit a comprehensive annual report to Congress on the housing needs of homeless veterans and the steps HUD has taken under the programs provided for in the bill. “The Homes for Heroes Act is an important step towards helping our men and women in uniform transition to life after service. I am proud to have supported this legislation which honors those who have given so much to his country” said Sires. H.R. 3298 is now under review in the Senate. ###
03.20.2012	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 20, 2012 201-222-2828 SIRES URGES PASSAGE OF SURFACE TRANSPORATION BILL Washington, D.C.-- Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood and U.S. Senators Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) at Hoboken Terminal in urging passage of Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century (MAP-21), a two year bill to fund highways and mass transit. “Just last week the Senate was able to work together in a bi-partisan manner to pass MAP-21,” said Congressman Sires. “It is now time for the House to put away partisan differences and take action to pass a long term transportation bill. In this vein, I have co-sponsored the House version of the Senate transportation bill, and encourage my colleagues to bring this bill for a vote to the House Floor.” Under MAP-21, which was passed by the Senate on March 14, 2012 and will be introduced by the House this week, it is estimated that up to 1 million jobs will be created and 1.8 million jobs will be saved. The legislation is fully paid for and passed the Senate by a bipartisan majority of 74 – 22. Since the expiration of the last long term transportation bill in 2009, several short term extensions have been passed. The most recent extension is set to expire on March 31, 2012. “New Jersey, and in particular my district, is a transportation hub that requires a long term transportation bill so that we can put people to work and move forward with vital transportation projects,” said Sires. “Under MAP-21, New Jersey commuters will benefit through a set aside of $240 per month of their untaxed dollars for commuting costs. Additionally, New Jersey is estimated to receive $500 million for transit projects, which provides so many of our commuters with reliable transportation.” ###
03.20.2012	Sires Announces Housing Award for Brand New Day, Inc. (Washington, DC)--Today, Congressman Sires announced that Brand New Day, Inc. received a grant in the amount of $39,420 from The National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling Program (NFMC). The grant will help community-based organizations provide housing counseling to families and individuals facing the threat of foreclosure. On March 19, 2012, NeighborWorks America announced that $73.8 million had been awarded to 32 state housing agencies, 18 HUD-approved housing counseling intermediaries, and 86 community-based organizations around the country. Brand New Day, Inc. is a non for profit HUD approved, NeighborWorks Home Ownership Center based in Elizabeth, NJ, offering mortgage education and counseling programs. Funds will help Brand New Day, Inc. train new foreclosure counselors. “I congratulate Brand New Day, Inc. on recipient of this award and thank them for their continued efforts in the 13th Congressional District. As families across the state of New Jersey are continually faced with the threat of foreclosure, Brand New Day, Inc. is making strides in our housing crisis by helping families stay in their homes” said Congressman Sires. ###
03.20.2012	Congressman Sires mourns the recent passing of leader of Coptic Christian Church, Pope Shenouda III Sires Press Office- (201)-222-2828 Contact: Erica Daughtrey Today we mourn the loss of a great leader and purveyor of faith and religious tolerance as we remember and embrace all that Pope Shenouda III has done for the Coptic Christian community in Egypt and around the world. The beloved leader of the Coptic Christian church has provided immensurable contributions to further promote religious tolerance and interfaith dialogue among peoples of different faiths in Egypt and serves as an example of how communities of different faiths can work together and live in harmony around the world. I extend my utmost condolences to the members of the Coptic Christian faith who reside in my district, in the United States, and around the world. Our thoughts and prayers go out to those who mourn Pope Shenouda III on this day. ###
03.07.2012	Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires received a Certificate of Recognition from the National Urban League for his support of H.R. 683, the Urban Jobs Act. Elnora Watson, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Urban League of Hudson County presented the award. “I am honored to receive this certificate by the National Urban League,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud of the work that the National Urban League affiliates in my district do every single day. The 13th Congressional District is a better place because of their strong programs which not only provide academic support, but also promote civic involvement.” Representatives from the National Urban League and its affiliates came to Washington, D.C. for their 9th Annual Legislative policy Conference which has the theme of, “Occupy the Vote: Employment and Education Empower the Nation.” Affiliates met with their Representatives in Congress to highlight the importance of urban youth and to encourage support for HR. 683, the Urban Jobs Act. H.R. 683 was introduced by Representative Towns to authorize the Secretary of Labor to make grants to the National Urban League which would permit urban jobs programs to be operated through local National Urban League affiliates. Eligible young adults, ages 18 to 24, would be provided education, job training, and support services to better prepare them to enter the workforce. This legislation would also direct the Secretary to establish a National Jobs Council Advisory Committee to prioritize the creation of a long term strategic priorities for the program. To address local needs, this legislation would encourage National Urban League affiliates to establish local jobs council advisory committees. “I’m a proud cosponsor of H.R. 683 to expand urban jobs opportunities for our local youth,” said Sires. “During our economic challenges, the National Urban League has risen to the challenge of providing successful education and job training programs for our youth, and their dedication to education and economic empowerment has helped New Jerseyans and all Americans.” ###
02.22.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement urging Cuban authorities to provide medical care to Cuba political prisoner Ernesto Borges Pérez: “Once again, the Cuban Regime is threatening to take the life of a political prisoner, Ernesto Borges Pérez. Borges was arrested in 1998, and sentenced to thirty years in prison for espionage. Having already served several years of his term in the Cuba gulags, Ernesto Borges Pérez has developed severe health problems. Borges now suffers from asthma and gastritis, among other illnesses, but continues to be denied proper medical treatment. Prison authorities have also cut off all communication with the outside world. In protest of these deplorable conditions, Borges is conducting his second hunger strike. “Tomorrow’s two year anniversary of the murder of Orlando Zapata Tamayo and Ernesto Borges Pérez’s ongoing protest demonstrate the cruelty of the Cuban regime and the sad reality that nothing is changing on the island. Cuban authorities must immediately provide Ernesto Borges Pérez with the medical attention he desperately needs.” ###
02.22.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue has received a grant award of $197,200 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will give North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue the funds necessary to purchase turnout gear for firefighters. “I congratulate North Hudson for receiving this competitive award.” said Congressman Sires. “This funding will provide complete turnout gear to protect North Hudson firefighters as they work to protect our communities.” ###
02.15.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Elizabeth Fire Department has received a grant award of $64,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. “This competitive grant will improve the safety and efficiency of Elizabeth firefighters by providing the funds necessary to purchase an oxygen generator and filling station,” said Congressman Sires. “I congratulate the City of Elizabeth for receiving this award.” ###
02.15.2012	Washington, DC-- On February 13, 2012, Congressman Sires joined 110 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending a letter to United States Postal Service Post Master General Patrick Donahoe, asking for a moratorium on postal facility closures. The letter sent by both Democratic and Republican members of the US House of Representatives asks the United States Postal Service to review any flaws in analysis which is being used as the basis for potential postal closures. “I along with my colleagues in the House of Representatives share concerns regarding the financial shortfall the United States Postal Service currently faces. That is why I believe a thorough, accurate review of all United States Postal Service facilities must be conducted before any decisions are made regarding postal facility closures” said Sires. “Any premature decision by the United States Postal Service has the potential to weaken our fragile economic recovery and eliminate thousands of middle class jobs”. Recently, the Congressional Independent Postal Review Committee found flaws in the United States Postal Service’s Postal Consolidation Plan which is being used as the basis to consolidate 3,600 United States Postal Service facilities. The Postal Review Committee found incomplete data for post offices, branches and stations, inaccurate representations of usage and revenues for post offices, including revenue measurements that do not include post office box usage and dispatch of local periodicals. “It’s imperative that the United States Postal Service continues to provide service that thousands of my constituents depend on. Halting facility closures for a sound review is in the best interest of the United States Postal Service and the residents of my Congressional District. I have received tremendous support from every Mayor effected by the potential closures throughout the 13th Congressional District. All of the Mayors and local officials in my District share the concerns outlined in the letter sent to the Post Master General” said Congressman Sires. ###
02.08.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Perth Amboy Fire Department has received a grant award of $240,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will give the Perth Amboy Fire Department the funds necessary to purchase a new fire engine. “I congratulate the Perth Amboy Fire Department for receiving this competitive grant,” said Congressman Sires. “With the addition of a new fire engine, the City of Perth Amboy will be a safer community for all.” ###
02.01.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Jersey City Department of Fire and Emergency Services has received a grant award of $929,088 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will help the Department purchase thermal imaging devices and turnout gear. “This significant award will greatly improve the safety of first responders and help them better protect all members of the community,” said Congressman Sires. “I congratulate Jersey City on its receipt of this competitive grant.” ###
02.01.2012	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Jersey City Housing Authority has received a Capital Fund Education and Training Community Facilities (CFCF) program award in the amount of $998,640 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The CFCF program supports funding for the construction of facilities that provide early childhood education, adult education, and job training programs. Funds will assist the Jersey City Housing Authority in constructing a 2900 square foot early childhood education center. “Early childhood education programs play a critical role in providing New Jersey’s children with the resources and skills to succeed in life” said Sires. I am pleased to congratulate the Jersey City Housing Authority on the recipient of this award and I thank them for their continual contributions to the community.” The Jersey City Housing Authority together with Jersey City Child Development Centers, Inc. and the Jersey City One- Stop Career Center plan to build a 2900 square foot early childhood education center. The centers aims to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. ###
01.27.2012	Weehawken, NJ - Today, Congressman Sires (D-NJ) and Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security toured security operations of the Holland Tunnel, PATH system at Exchange Place in Jersey City, Port of Newark/Elizabeth, and the Lincoln Tunnel. The tour emphasized the current and future security needs that these New Jersey facilities have, which are similar to the security needs of the entire New York/New Jersey Metropolitan area. The purpose was to also examine future Federal Homeland Security funding needs and where these funds should be focused. Jersey City Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy, joined the tour at Exchange Place to emphasize mass transit security issues. Various Port Authority officials met Congressman Sires and Congressman King at each stop to explain the particular security undertakings and concerns unique to each location. Congressman King stated, “I am pleased to have this opportunity to spend time in northern New Jersey with Congressman Sires examining the security measures employed at these sites, which are so vital to the New York-New Jersey-Long Island region and the entire nation. The fact is that the New York City metro area, including New Jersey and Long Island, remains the number one target for al-Qaeda and affiliated terrorists. This visit demonstrates the homeland security cooperation that is so essential among NYC-area Members of Congress and the States of New York and New Jersey and the Port Authority. Congressman Sires has proven to be a terrific partner on these issues, a Member of Congress who is absolutely committed to the security of our homeland.” Congressman Sires stated, “We are pleased that Congressman King could take time to view first hand homeland security sites existing in my district. We are working together to highlight the special concerns that are unique to this area and to ensure that funds are available in the future as the region grows and resources are needed to further secure the area.” Congressman Sires also noted, “Congressman King is at the forefront of Homeland Security issues for the entire country and the NY/NJ Metropolitan area and has a special understanding of what is needed to protect America and works with all colleagues to provide for the security of our region and our country.” Congressman Sires would like to thank Congressman King, the Port Authority of New York/New Jersey, New Jersey Homeland Security Director Charlie McKenna, and the State of New Jersey for their cooperation and services during the tour. ###
01.25.2012	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union Address: “President Obama’s State of the Union Address rightfully focused on building a strong economy and the importance of supporting the middle class. I support the President’s effort to increase partnerships between growing businesses and communities colleges to train workers for new high-tech job opportunities. I was encouraged by his proposal to reward companies that create jobs and train workers in the country’s hardest-hit areas through tax breaks. We should provide tax incentives to businesses that keep jobs in America. “The President also spoke of the continued need to reduce dropout rates and make college affordable for every student. This goal is essential to ensure our country’s success into the future. With smart economic policies and improved education programs, we can bring more jobs to the United States. “The devastated housing market continues to impact the lives of millions of Americans who are struggling to pay high mortgages on houses with declining values. I look forward to working with the President to help more homeowners refinance to save thousands on their mortgages each year. “America needs to invest in our infrastructure – our roads, bridges, and railways. As the President explained, tough economic times are no reason to turn away from large scale projects that will have large scale benefits. In the short term, infrastructure projects will create jobs, and in the long term, these investments will improve the lives of generations to come. “Our country needs pragmatic solutions, and it is my hope that my colleagues and I can work across the aisle to promote many of the initiatives the President proposed. Let’s show our commitment to the American people by immediately passing a long term extension of the pay roll tax cut.” ###
01.20.2012	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the recent death of Cuban political prisoner, Wilman Villar Mendoza, who began a hunger strike after his arrest on November 14, 2011. “Last night, the world lost another hero for freedom and democracy, Wilman Villar Mendoza. Mr. Villar was arrested and imprisoned in November after a peaceful protest against the Cuban regime. Just two months later, he is dead. His death must not be silenced. His death irrevocably demonstrates the true nature of the Cuban regime. This is not a benign government. The Castro brothers are ruthless leaders with no regard for human life. Some people think that this regime is capable of reform, but the only things we can expect from the Castros are more death and more despair. I condemn the murder of Wilman Villar Mendoza, and my thoughts and prayers go out to Mr. Villar’s wife and children.” ###
01.18.2012	Mister Speaker, I would like to congratulate the West New York, New Jersey school district for their efforts to promote nutrition and physical education at school as part of the Healthy Schools Program. Last week, former President Clinton visited P-S number two in West New York to praise the Board of Education for its efforts in transforming the school systems’ nutritional program. The visit was a part of the Alliance for a Healthier Generation’s Healthy Schools Program to reduce childhood obesity. During his visit, President Clinton was able to see firsthand how the school has embraced nutrition and wellness. West New York has a long history of being recognized by the Alliance for nutritional achievement. P-S number two received a Bronze National Recognition Award in 2009 and a Silver National Recognition Award in 2010 for their efforts to provide students with a fresher, more nutritional meal plan. In 2010, my high school alma mater, Memorial High School, received the first and only Gold National Recognition Award given by the Alliance. And last October, the Alliance awarded Sal Valenzia- the food service director of West New York- with the distinction of Healthy Schools Program Champion. I am honored to represent a school district that emphasizes healthy lifestyles, and am pleased that West New York has been recognized for their efforts.
12.21.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 21, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES ANNOUNCES GRANT AWARD FOR HOBOKEN FIRE DEPARTMENT Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Hoboken Fire Department has received a grant award of $272,697 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will give the Bayonne Fire Department the funds necessary to obtain turnout gear and thermal imaging devices. “I congratulate the Hoboken Fire Departments for receiving this competitive grant,” said Congressman Sires. “With these funds, the City of Hoboken can provide our emergency responders with the tools to keep themselves and the community safe.” ###
12.20.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 20, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO EXPAND RESEARCH FOR TOURETTE SYNDROME (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires introduced the Collaborative Academic Research Efforts (CARE) for Tourette Syndrome Act to expand and further coordinate efforts towards research for Tourette syndrome. This bill would promote activities at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) aimed at combating and diagnosing Tourette syndrome. “Tourette syndrome is a misunderstood disorder that is too often stigmatized,” stated Congressman Sires. “While symptoms can be suppressed overtime, too many individuals, particularly children, face the everyday challenge of trying to manage tics whether at school or in various social settings. Through expanded and collaborative research, we can learn more about the cause and treatment of the disorder to help improve the lives of those individuals impacted by Tourette syndrome.” Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by repetitive, involuntary movements and vocalizations called tics. The NIH estimates that 200,000 Americans suffer from the most severe form of Tourette syndrome, while as many as one in 100 exhibit milder symptoms such as chronic motor or vocal tics. Although symptoms continue for many through adulthood, the disorder generally peaks in severity during childhood. The CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act would seek to improve the daily life of those living with Tourette syndrome and their families by expanding and coordinating research efforts on the disorder to advance our understanding of the syndrome. Specifically, this bill would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a new system to collect data on Tourette syndrome, including the availability of medical and social services for individuals with Tourette syndrome and their families. It would also instruct the Secretary of HHS to award grants to public or nonprofit private entities to establish new Centers of Excellence focused on Tourette syndrome research. Such Centers would be established on a regional basis, and would conduct research, including investigations into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control and treatment of Tourette syndrome. “I am proud to introduce the CARE for Tourette Syndrome Act and bring to the forefront the need for an increased commitment to preventing and treating this disorder. It is my hope that through this legislation, we can grasp a better understanding of Tourette syndrome and in turn, help enhance the lives of so many,” expressed Congressman Sires. ###
12.14.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 14, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires Votes to Increase Sanctions on Iran Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires voted in favor of a series of comprehensive sanctions against Iran. H.R. 1905, the Iran Threat Reduction Act, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 410 to 11. This legislation would strengthen current U.S. sanction laws in order to stop Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and other threatening acts. “Iran continues to ignore international law and is moving forward with its nuclear program. While our current sanctions are having an impact on Iran, more can be done, and we must act now.” said Congressman Sires. This legislation would go beyond the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (CISADA) by improving current sanctions and imposing tough new penalties on Iran. H.R. 1905 would increase sanctions on companies that invest in Iran’s energy sector and imposes stricter sanctions of foreign firms that do business with the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. The bill would also allow sanctions to be imposed on those doing business with the Central Bank of Iran. Additionally, the legislation would require human rights violators in Iran to face financial and travel restrictions. H.R. 1905 targets Iran’s leadership to help end the threat of a nuclear Iran and stop the oppression of the Iranian people. “Combating the threat of Iran is critical for the future safety and stability of the region, and the United States must continue to lead the fight in sanctioning this dangerous regime,” said Congressman Sires. “I urge the Senate to immediately pass this important bill.” H.R. 1905 is now under review in the Senate. ###
12.08.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 8, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires Objects to Reduction in Postal Services Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending a letter to United States Postal Service (USPS) Post Master General Patrick Donahue. The letter, to object to the proposal to slow first-class service and close processing centers, was lead by Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN). “The Post Office plays a vital role in our community, providing affordable and reliable service that many citizens and businesses depend on” said Congressman Sires. “Reducing service will disproportionately affect millions of Americans and cut thousands of jobs.” On December 5, 2011, the United States Postal Service announced that in attempt to reduce costs it would move forward with plans to change service standards, eliminating next day service. For the first time in 40 years, next day service will no longer be offered for first-class mail. Previously, on September 15, 2011, the USPS revealed plans that it would begin studying 252 out of 487 mail processing facilities for possible closure. USPS facilities in the 13th District likely to face closure include the Kearny Logistics and Distribution Center. “Eliminating next day service will place an unfair burden on those who depend on the USPS for access to everything from medications to Social Security checks” said Sires. ###
11.30.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 30, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO PROTECT WORKERS’ RIGHTS Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 3094, the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act. This legislation would make changes to the National Labor Relations Act that would create barriers and increase the waiting time for workers to conduct union elections. “Despite the title, this legislation will not make the workforce a more fair place, but instead will create more obstacles for workers to decide whether or not they want to be organized,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation is an attack on the rights of the middle class and if signed into law, will deny workers the fundamental right to choose whether or not they want to be represented by a union.” Specifically, H.R. 3094 would delay the union election process by allowing employers to indefinitely delay scheduling an election for workers to choose whether to form a union. Additionally, this legislation incentivizes litigation by mandating full hearings on frivolous claims and extraneous issues. This bill would also give employers a prolonged period of time and the legal opportunity to discourage organizing efforts, while simultaneously denying workers the opportunity to hear from unions. “Congress should be working on legislation to create jobs, instead of voting on legislation that rolls back workers’ rights,” said Sires. ###
11.29.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 29, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires Supports Bankruptcy Relief for Guard Members and Reservists Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2192, the National Guard and Reservist Debt Relief Extension Act, by a vote of 407 to 1. This bill would extend bankruptcy relief to members of the National Guard and Reserve until 2016. “Reservists and National Guard members can be called for duty at any time, and this uncertainty can cause financial strain on the member and his or her family. This legislation would help members, who have bravely served their country, in obtaining bankruptcy protection should they need it,” said Congressman Sires. Under H.R. 2192, members of the National Guard and Reserve that are called to active duty or to perform a homeland defense activity for at least 90 days would be eligible for an exemption of a means-test presumption under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. This current exemption is set to expire at the end of 2011. This legislation would extend the exemption until 2016. The National Guard and Reservist Debt Relief Extension Act currently awaits consideration by the Senate. ###
11.16.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 16, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO PUT VETERANS BACK TO WORK Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 674, the Three Percent Withholding Repeal and Job Creation Act. This bill, which unanimously passed the House of Representatives, will help small businesses and decrease the national unemployment rate for veterans. “The legislation will not only help hire veterans, but also provide our veterans with the specific tools necessary to transition back into the civilian workforce,” said Congressman Sires. “By encouraging the hiring of veterans, this bill will prioritize helping those who have bravely served our country.” H.R. 674 includes measures to help veterans find work by providing tax credits for businesses that hire veterans, including veterans with service-connected disabilities, who have been searching for a job. Additionally, H.R. 674 offers service-members transition support by improving the Transition Assistance Program and allowing service members to begin the federal employment process prior to leaving the military. To further ensure a seamless transition from the military, H.R. 674 creates a retraining assistance program in which veterans receive up to 12 months of education and job training. The bill also repeals an unpopular 2006 law that requires government agencies to withhold three percent of payments made to government contractors, beginning at the end of next year. The repeal of the withholding requirement will increase the cash flow to private contractors, which can help small business and allow private contractors to reallocate funds to spur job growth. Last week, H.R. 674 was approved in the Senate and will now be presented for the President’s signature to become law. ###
11.03.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 3, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR SMALL BUSINESSES Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2940, Access to Capital for Job Creators Act and H.R. 2930, Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act. H.R. 2940 would make it easier for small businesses to raise capital by removing restrictions on general solicitation and advertising. H.R. 2930 enables small businesses and individuals to make use of internet-based platforms, including social networks, to raise capital. “This legislation will help to strengthen our economy and address and the needs of middle class families and small businesses by allowing the average American person and business to invest and to raise capital more easily,” said Sires. “Both pieces of legislation will improve access to capital for small businesses and entrepreneurs, but this is just a small step in improving our economy and creating jobs. Congress must pass legislation that directly addresses the need for job in this country.” H.R. 2940 passed by a vote of 413 to 11 and H.R. 2930 passed by a vote of 407 to 17. Both pieces of legislation are currently under review in the Senate. ###
10.20.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 20, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES SUPPORTS CREATION OF JOB CORPS PROGRAMS Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 2914, the Emergency Jobs to Restore the American Dream Act. This legislation was introduced by Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and would create jobs through the establishment of job corps programs. “This legislation creates jobs by funding job corps programs,” said Congressman Sires. “While this concept may be simple, its impact would be tremendous, and nationally, over 2.2 million jobs could be created.” The Emergency Jobs to Restore the American Dream Act would create several job corps programs. Specifically, the School Improvement Corps would be established to create construction and maintenance jobs to improve public school facilities to ensure these facilities are safe and up to date. The Neighborhood Heroes Corps would hire teachers, police officers and firefighters, and the Health Corps would hire health care workers in underserved areas. Through the Child Care Corps, jobs in early childhood care and education would be created through additional funding for Early Head Start. The Park Improvement Corps would hire youth ages 16 through 25 to work on public land conservation projects and the Student Job Corps would provide part-time, work study jobs for eligible college students. Lastly, the Community Corps would address the needs of foreclosure affected and natural-disaster affected areas, perform conservation upgrades, and conduct public property maintenance. In addition to establishing these job corps, this legislation would give priority to hiring those who have exhausted their unemployment benefits, the unemployed, and veterans. “With federal unemployment extensions set to expire early next year, thousands of New Jerseyans will be out of work without unemployment assistance,” said Sires. “Through the creation of these different job corps, millions of jobs will be created across the nation, and vital community needs will be served.” ###
10.18.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 18, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES URGES NEW JERSEY RESIDENTS TO REGISTER FOR IRENE ASSISTANCE Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Albio Sires reminded New Jersey residents who sustained damage during Hurricane Irene that they have until October 31, 2011 to register for assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The deadline to submit loan applications to the Small Business Administration (SBA) is also October 31, 2011. “There are less than two weeks left to register for federal assistance. I urge all those impacted by Hurricane Irene to register as soon as possible,” said Congressman Sires. “FEMA and SBA assistance programs are essential tools to help get all disaster survivors back on their feet.” FEMA provides assistance for home repairs, temporary housing, replacement of damaged personal property and even medical or transportation costs not covered by insurance. SBA offers low interest loans to residents and business owners to repair homes and other property. To determine eligibility for these programs, individuals must register before the Oct. 31 deadline. To register for assistance from FEMA, individuals can visit www.disasterassistance.gov, or m.fema.gov or call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-3362 (FEMA). SBA loan applications can be found online at https://DisasterLoan.SBA.gov/ELA. Additional SBA information is available at www.sba.gov or 800-659-2955. In New Jersey, FEMA has already approved more than $136 million in disaster assistance. The SBA has approved nearly $44 million in disaster loans to homeowners, renters, businesses, and nonprofit organizations. ###
10.13.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 13, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO PROTECT WOMEN’S ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE SERVICES (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted against, H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act, to restrict women’s access to reproductive health care services. This bill goes beyond federal statute and in effect would restrict, for the first time, what women with private insurance can spend their own private dollars in purchasing health insurance. “Instead of focusing on legislation that will create Jobs, the majority party has turned its agenda to rolling-back the legal rights of American women,” stated Congressman Sires. “Federal law already restricts taxpayer money from being used to fund abortions, but this bill would go even further by restricting women with private insurance from choosing how they can spend their own private dollars on health care insures.” Specifically, H.R. 358, undermines the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and supersedes decades of federal policy governing abortion. The Hyde amendment, which has been in effect for decades and prevents federal funds from being used for abortions (except in cases of rape or incest, or when the life of the woman would be endangered). The ACA is consistent with the Hyde amendment by prohibiting the use of federal subsidies provided under the Act from being used to pay for abortion coverage in the newly established Exchanges. Rather, H.R. 358, would likely shut down the private market for abortion coverage for women in the Exchanges. Lastly, the bill restricts women’s access to emergency treatment by placing conscience-clause concerns for providers above the urgent needs of women. ###
10.11.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 13, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES VOTES TO SUPPORT THE TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE ACT Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2832, the Generalized System of Preferences/Trade Adjustment Assistance Act (TAA) by a vote of 307 - 122. This bill extends TAA programs, which provide assistance and benefits to support U.S. workers who lost their job due to the impacts of international trade, through December 31, 2013, and will be applied retroactively to February 12, 2011. “Workers who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, will once again be able to reap the benefits of the TAA program,” said Congressman Sires. “TAA programs provide health insurance assistance and vital retraining opportunities to give workers the skills necessary to become globally competitive.” Under this legislation, TAA programs will provide resources and support to displaced workers as well as small businesses, firms, and farmers. This legislation also includes the TAA expanded benefits from 2009, which covers service industry workers and workers whose jobs which had been shifted to China and India. Since this expansion of eligibility, it is estimated that 435,000 Americans and 4,744 New Jersey workers became certified under the new provisions. “As displaced workers struggle in this economy, this long overdue legislation will provide much needed assistance,” said Congressman Sires. “Extending the TAA program will assist hundreds of displaced New Jerseyans, and it is estimated that since 2009, a total of 6,329 New Jerseyans have been certified under all TAA provisions.” ###
10.05.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 5, 2011 201-222-2828 CONGRESSMAN SIRES JOINS HOUSE DEMOCRATS TO FOCUS ON JOBS AND UNVEIL MAKE IT IN AMERICA DOCUMENTARY Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires joined House Democrats to discuss their continued focus on job creation, including the Make It In America plan to boost manufacturing and create jobs, and the American Jobs Act introduced by President Obama. At today’s press conference, House Democrats unveiled a documentary on the Make It In America plan, highlighting how the plan will revitalize American industry and innovation, create jobs and grow our economy. Click here to watch the documentary. “We have put forward concrete proposals to grow our economy and help put more Americans back to work, and I’m fighting to move these plans forward. Our Make It In America initiative would create jobs by strengthening American manufacturing, and the President’s American Jobs Act seeks to create jobs, help small businesses grow, and put more money back in Americans’ pockets,” said Congressman Sires. “Our proposals address Americans’ top priorities: creating jobs and growing the economy.” The Make It In America plan is aimed at strengthening the manufacturing industry by creating an encouraging environment for business to innovate and make products in the United States. The documentary unveiled shows why investments in our ability to out-build, out-educate and out-innovate our competitors are critical to strengthening the manufacturing sector, creating well-paying jobs, and ensuring more middle class families can make it in America. Since launching the initiative in the 111th Congress, seven Make It In America bills have been signed into law that encourage manufacturers to innovate, grow, keep and create good jobs here in the U.S. In May, House Democrats unveiled the Make It In America legislative agenda for the 112th Congress. For more information, please visit https://www.democraticwhip.gov/issues/make-it-america. ###
10.05.2011	Diaz-Balart and Sires: Strong Model Building Codes Equal Disaster Defense By Reps. Mario Diaz-Balart and Albio Sires Special to Roll Call Oct. 5, 2011, Midnight From the tornadoes that ravaged Alabama and Missouri to the severe flooding along the Mississippi River to Hurricane Irene's pounding of the East Coast, we have been reminded throughout the year of the dramatic manner in which major storms can disrupt communities and destroy lives. The economic losses associated with major weather events in 2011 are already among the most costly in the nation's history. Ten disasters this year have resulted in combined damages of more than $40 billion. Mother Nature is sending us a wake-up call. We need to answer it and move decisively to promote sound strategies to mitigate the devastation of future disasters and to save taxpayer money. The foundation of our national response should be the statewide adoption of model building codes that will make our homes and office buildings more resistant to nature's forces. It is not enough to simply pass another supplemental appropriations bill and wait for the next storm to hit. As Congress takes urgent action to help communities rebuild from Irene's devastation, it is vital that we seize this opportunity to encourage states to update their building codes in a manner that will protect property, save lives and ultimately reduce taxpayer exposure to natural disasters. While the evidence is overwhelming that strong building codes work, most states have yet to adopt them or put in place inspection mechanisms to ensure compliance. That's why we — along with our GOP colleagues Reps. Richard Hanna (N.Y.) and Steve Southerland (Fla.) — have introduced the Safe Building Code Incentive Act. This legislation provides a financial incentive for states to voluntarily adopt and enforce model national building codes for the construction of new residential and commercial properties. Qualifying states would receive an additional 4 percent in post-disaster relief grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency to address long-term hazard mitigation, such as improving drainage structures, restraining cables on bridges and installing window shutters for hospitals and other critical facilities. Encouraging states to adopt model national building codes can help fortify our nation's defenses against major storms. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, Louisiana State University's Hurricane Center conducted a landmark study on the effectiveness of model building codes. The findings were eye-opening. If strong building codes had been in place, wind damage from Katrina would have been reduced by 80 percent, saving $8 billion. LSU also studied the effect of Katrina in Mississippi and found that with strong building codes in place, economic losses would have been reduced by $3.1 billion and that almost 40,000 buildings would have been spared major damage. Given the financial realities facing the nation and the fact that the Joint Committee on Deficit Reduction will suck up much of the oxygen in Washington this fall, an obvious question about our legislation and any supplemental funding bill is: Where will the money come from for the additional relief assistance? Our bill is crafted in a manner that won't require a new appropriation to FEMA. The additional 4 percent of funding awarded to qualifying states struck by future disasters would be paid for by reallocating existing funds inside the FEMA-managed Disaster Relief Fund. Furthermore, additional research shows that investments in mitigation activities, such as the adoption of strong building codes, generate big returns for taxpayers and the economy. According to a 2005 FEMA-commissioned study by the National Institute of Building Sciences, for every $1 spent on hazard mitigation at the federal level, the nation reaps $4 in benefits. The facts surrounding strong building codes are clear and widely embraced by disaster mitigation experts and emergency management officials. As Congress considers disaster funding in response to Hurricane Irene, the Safe Building Code Incentive Act can make our homes and communities safer and stronger while reducing long-term costs, ultimately saving taxpayer dollars. We can't afford to pass up an opportunity to do something lasting for the American people. Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.) is a member of the Appropriations Committee. Rep. Albio Sires (D-N.J.) is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Click here to read this op-ed on the Roll Call website.
09.29.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 29, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES URGES CUBAN AUTHORITIES TO RELEASE PRO-DEMOCRACY ACTIVISTS Washington, D.C.— Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement regarding the recent arrests and detentions of pro-democracy activists in Cuba: “Earlier this week, peaceful pro-democracy activists were brutally beaten by officials of the Castro regime, including Yris Tamara Perez Aguilar, the wife of former political prisoner Jorge Luis García Pérez “Antúnez.” These peaceful demonstrations were met with extreme and unjustifiable force. Reports from the island indicate that those arrested remain detained with serious injuries. Antúnez does not know where his wife has been taken or how badly she was hurt during the arrest. This violent oppression and abuse has to stop. The Cuban regime must immediately and unconditionally release these activists and all political prisoners.” ###
09.15.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 15, 2011 201-222-2828 HUDSON COUNTY RECEIVES ASSISTANCE TO IMPROVE PUBLIC SAFETY Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced Hudson County’s receipt of a $750,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice for its Community Reintegration Program. The grant program supports initiatives that help facilitate successful transitions for offenders back into their communities. With this grant award, the Hudson County Community Reintegration Program will be able to provide a variety of services to offenders reentering the community including counseling, housing, and job training. “Ensuring that offenders do not relapse into their previous behaviors is critical to improving public safety,” said Congressman Sires. “The funding will support programs that help offenders positively contribute to our communities and reduce repeat incarcerations. The Hudson County Community Reintegration Program should be commended for the success of its programs and for earning this funding.” ###
09.13.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 13, 2011 201-222-2828 SIRES OUTLINES NEW JERSEY BENEFITS OF THE AMERICAN JOBS ACT Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement in support of President Obama’s, American Jobs Act. “President Obama has submitted his plan to Congress, and it is time for us to work together in a bipartisan manner and pass legislation to create jobs swiftly. The plan includes jobs programs, assistance for the unemployed, and tax breaks for the middle class. Under this plan, New Jerseyans will benefit in many ways, and not one dime will be added to the deficit. I urge my colleagues to work together and do what’s right for our country – pass this legislation and put Americans back to work. “The construction sector has been significantly affected during this economic downturn, and through several different jobs programs, thousands of construction workers will be put back to work. Under the President’s plan, New Jersey would receive at least $1,325,100,000 to be used for repairing highways, roads, rails, and transit. Additionally, our state would receive up to $831,100,000 to prevent layoffs and ensure that teachers, police officers, and firefighters keep their jobs. To address deferred maintenance projects and modernize schools, New Jersey would receive up to $518,600,000. Facilities at community colleges would also receive approximately $123,800,000 in funding to modernize and ensure that they have the equipment needed to educate our future workforce. More jobs would be created through the investment of $98,100,000 for revitalization of neighborhoods and community development, and New Jersey would also be eligible to receive additional funds through a competitive process. Through these different jobs programs, nearly 35,000 New Jersey jobs could be created. “To address the needs of the unemployed, President Obama is calling to extend unemployment insurance to prevent 104,300 New Jerseyans looking for work from losing their benefits in their first six weeks. Additionally, aid would be extended for the long-term unemployed. A Pathways Back to Work Fund would provide up to 3,500 adults and 11,300 youth in New Jersey to receive training in growing industries. “Lastly, New Jerseyans would be able to benefit from tax cuts. Employer payroll taxes would be cut in half and up to 200,000 New Jersey firms would receive a payroll tax cut. Employee payroll taxes would also be cut in half, and workers would only pay 3.1 percent of their wage income. Additionally for small businesses, 100 percent expensing would be extended through 2012, which would allow for companies to deduct the full cost of qualified capital investments, such as the cost of new equipment.”
09.09.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 8, 2011 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires’ Statement on President’s Jobs Speech (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to the President’s speech before Congress: “Tonight, I am encouraged by the plan President Obama presented before Congress to get Americans back to work. With the current rate of unemployment at 9.1 percent, now is the time to focus on creating jobs for the millions struggling across the nation. ‘The Americans Jobs Act’ set forth by the President will strengthen our economy and bolster job growth through investments in infrastructure, incentives for small businesses to hire, aid to state and local governments to support teachers and prevent lay-offs, and tax breaks for the middle class. Congress must now follow the President’s lead and work together to implement such a proposal to provide our economy with the boost it needs.” ###
08.01.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 1, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires Votes for Economic Security (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires supported passage of S. 365, the Budget Control Act of 2011, to avoid government default and reduce the deficit. The legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 269 to 161, would increase our debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion until 2013, while establishing the framework for future deficit reduction without harming our current economic recovery. “While this plan is not perfect, it is necessary in order to remove the cloud of uncertainty over our economy at this critical time,” stated Congressman Sires. “Unlike previous proposals to raise the debt ceiling, this agreement prevents the middle class, seniors, and those who are most vulnerable from shouldering the burden of deficit reduction.” Specifically, this legislation guarantees economic security by raising the debt ceiling by at least $2.1 through 2012 and generates nearly $1 trillion in savings by placing caps on discretionary spending for ten years. The agreement also establishes a bipartisan Congressional Committee tasked with identifying an additional $1.5 trillion in savings, including tax reform. Congress is required to report and vote on the Committee’s recommendation by the end of the year. Should Congress not come to an agreement to reduce our debt in the allotted time, an enforcement mechanism will be deployed to trigger further spending cuts beginning in 2013. Social Security, Medicaid, Medicare benefits, unemployment insurance, programs for low-income families, and civilian and military retirement would not be impacted by this trigger. “I reluctantly supported this agreement because allowing our nation to default on our loan obligations at this fragile time in our economic recovery was not an option. Now that we have the framework established for future deficit reduction, it is of the utmost importance that my colleagues and I in Congress proceed in such a manner that insists on shared sacrifice from the most well-off and those with the most indefensible tax breaks- like companies that ship jobs overseas, while protecting the Social Security and Medicare benefits that so many depend on for everyday expenses,” expressed Congressman Sires. S. 365 is now under review in the Senate before being presented for the President’s signature to become law. ###
07.27.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 21, 2011 201-222-2828 Congressman opposed legislation that would weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Washington D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 1315, the Consumer Financial Protection Safety and Soundness Improvement Act of 2011 that would weaken the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted last year, created the CFPB, a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. H.R. 1315 would weaken the structure of the CFPB and delay parts of the law that would protect consumers the most. “This bill would weaken and erode consumer protections that stop unfair and deceptive practices that ensure credit card, mortgage, student loan and other financial transactions are more transparent and fair for all Americans”, said Congressman Sires. “Replacing the Director position with a five person Commission would only serve to diminish the Bureau’s decision-making power and ultimately reduce the Bureau’s ability to protect consumers.” Specifically, H.R. 1315 would replace the single Director of the CFPB with a five person Commission. The bill would also delay the transfer date for the CFPB until there is a Director confirmed by the Senate. Furthermore, it would make it easier for the banking regulators to overturn the Bureau’s rules and delay its core functions. ###
07.20.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 20, 2011 201-222-2828 Congressman’s provisions will promote the protection of religious minorities in Egypt Washington, DC-- Today, Representative Albio Sires attended a meeting of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to debate a pending bill to authorize funding levels for the Department of State, related programs, the Peace Corps, and security assistance for 2012. Representative Sires won inclusion of important language in H.R. 2583, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, expressing concern about the state of religious freedom in Egypt and the plight of religious minorities in the country, including Coptic Christians. “With the addition of this language, the State Authorization bill addresses the critical issue of religious freedom in Egypt,” said Representative Sires. “Coptic Christians in Egypt continue to face the threat of violence and persecution every day, and we must use all available tools to ensure that the rights of religious minorities are protected and promoted. However, as debate on this bill continues, I remain concerned with numerous provisions of the underlying legislation.” Specifically, Section 811, authored by Representative Sires, expresses the sense of Congress that the Office of International Religious Freedom and the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor at the Department of State should dedicate all appropriate resources to promoting the rights of religious minorities in Egypt. Sectarian violence in Egypt has persisted for years between the radical groups and Coptic Christians. ###
07.14.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 14, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires praised the receipt of a grant worth $500,000 to the Jewish Renaissance Medical Center (JRMC) from the Department of Health and Human Services to expand its school-based health center services. JRMC was one of 278 school-based health center programs across the country to receive an award. Provided by the Affordable Care Act, the awards will help clinics expand and provide more health care services at schools nationwide. “These new investments will help JRMC to keep the children in our area healthy with new improvements ensuring effective, efficient, and high-quality care,” stated Congressman Sires. “When children are sick it is more difficult for them to learn. School-based health centers provide the access to health care that kids need to succeed in the classroom.” JRMC is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) that provides primary and preventive care to the neediest individuals living in and around Perth Amboy, New Jersey. This award will enable JRMC to increase the capacity of patients in its network of school-based health centers. Such centers improve the overall health and wellness of all children through health screenings, health promotion and disease prevention activities and enable children with acute or chronic illnesses to attend school. The funds announced today are the first in a series of awards that will be made available to school-based health centers under the Affordable Care Act, administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration. ###
07.13.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 13, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires was honored with a Friend of the National Parks award from the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) for his contribution to protecting and enhancing America’s national parks. The award recognizes members with pro-park voting records during the 111th Congress. “I am proud to have supported efforts that ensure our national parks will be taken care of for future generations to come,” stated Congressman Sires. “Such efforts touch close to home for me as my District includes the historical landmarks of Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty. It is our duty to preserve these national treasures as they are symbolic to America’s past, present, and future.” Since 1919, NPCA has been the leading voice of the American people in protecting and enhancing our National Park System. NPCA, its 600,000 members and supporters, and many partners work together to protect the park system and preserve our nation’s natural, historical, and cultural heritage for our children and grandchildren. ###
07.08.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 8, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted in support of H.R. 2219, the Fiscal Year 2012 Defense Appropriations bill. This bill, which the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 336 to 87, would provide resources for the Department of Defense (DOD) to support military personnel and critical DOD programs. “This legislation would provide our troops with the equipment, services, and protection they need to keep our country safe,” said Congressman Sires. “Also under H.R. 2219, the Defense Department will be able to continue important investments in research and development to treat conditions such as traumatic brain injury.” H.R. 2219 would appropriate funding for the DOD base budget, as well as provide resources for the continuing withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq. The bill contains provisions to support our troops and their families, including providing a pay raise for the troops and strengthening health care services for troops and their families. H.R. 2219 would also help meet the equipment needs of the National Guard and Reserve forces to aid their missions. H.R. 2219 is now awaiting consideration by the Senate. ###
06.23.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 23, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the National Labor Relations Board proposal regarding the process for union organizing elections: “I believe that all workers should be able to choose whether or not to unionize, and yesterday’s proposal by the National Labor Relations Board is a step forward in improving workplace elections. Under the proposal, the pre and post-election process will be moved into the 21st century by allowing electronic filing of petitions and other documents. Additionally, final voter lists would be produced in electronic form and include both phone numbers and e-mail addresses, as opposed to only home addresses. “The current system for workplace elections can and should be improved. These changes will provide for stronger transparency and make workplace elections fairer for all.” ###
06.23.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 23, 2011 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to reports of an upcoming antitrust investigation into Google conducted by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). “I am encouraged by recent reports that the FTC is poised to launch an antitrust investigation into Google’s business practices. Over time, complaints have increased regarding Google’s anti-competitive behavior, in particular the use of its market power in search to push consumers to its own services. The time has come to seriously look into this issue. At the end of the day, the real victim of anti-competitive behavior is the consumers who are restricted of the ability to choose which services they wish to use. Furthermore, anti-competitive practices deter investment and innovation by smaller companies. As Google’s business practices are already under review in Europe, I believe it would be wise for the FTC to pursue a similar antitrust investigation to ensure that consumers and small businesses are not taking a back seat to an industry giant.” ###
06.22.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 22, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires Welcomes the Winner of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition (Washington, DC)-- Each spring, Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor a nationwide high school art competition known as An Artistic Discovery. This competition is a great opportunity to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the Thirteenth Congressional District as well as across the nation. Today, Congressman Sires was happy to welcome the winner of the competition, Victor Cedeno, to his Washington, DC office. Victor, who attends Hudson County Preparatory School in Jersey City, NJ, had the winning entry entitled True Me. It will be displayed, along with other winning pieces from around the Nation, in the United States Capitol for one year. Second place winner, Janelle Ramdeen, of Bayonne High School in Bayonne, NJ will have her work, Time Worn, displayed in the Congressman’s Washington, DC office for one year. This year’s Congressional Art Competition took place on May 2, 2011 at the Hudson County Community College, Culinary Institute Campus. The winning pieces of art were chosen from fifty-two outstanding entries. In addition, the following runners up will have their work displayed in the district offices of Congressman Sires: Bicycle Boy, by: Denis Gorbarain, the Admiral William Halsey Leadership Academy, Elizabeth, NJ. Mechanical Wonders, by: Kathleen Montalvo, Carteret High School, Carteret, NJ. Self Portrait, by: Ray McKeon, Hudson County Preparatory School, Jersey City, NJ. Black and White Photograph, by: Rebecca Poggiali, Bayonne High School, Bayonne, NJ. “Self Portrait, by Sarah Barcelos, Jersey City Arts High School, Jersey City, NJ. ###
06.16.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 16, 2011 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires joined as a cosponsor of H.R. 2005, the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act of 211 to reauthorize the Combating Autism Act (CAA) for an additional three years. Originally, enacted by Congress in 2006, the CAA has expanded and enhanced: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) surveillance and epidemiological research for autism and other developmental disabilities; the National Institute of Health’s (NIH) activities with respect to research on autism spectrum disorders; and the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. Additionally, the CAA directed both CDC and NIH to investigate possible environmental causes of autism and authorized a robust autism education, early detection, and intervention program at the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). “Since the CAA has become law, significant advancements have been achieved in the effort to fight autism, as well as improve the lives of individuals and families affected by the disorder,” stated Congressman Sires. “To name just a few accomplishments of the CAA, the law has helped to improve the methods for autism screening; identified several autism susceptibility genes; developed promising interventions for children with autism; and expanded new treatments for medical conditions commonly associated with autism.” Specifically, H.R. 2005, originally introduced by Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ), would reauthorize the CAA for an additional three years. The bill would allow for the continued success of the CAA by authorizing funding at CDC, HRSA, and NIH through FY 2014. Specifically, $22 million would be provided for surveillance; $48 million for education, early detection, and intervention; and $161 million for NIH research and operation of the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. H.R. 2005 is currently pending before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. ###
06.15.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 15, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Representative Albio Sires spoke at a briefing held to highlight the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. The briefing, entitled “Partnerships for innovation: Simple solutions that save lives,” was hosted by PATH, the Global Health Technologies Coalition, BIO Ventures for Global Health, and Research!America. “The right tool, administered in the right way, can help prevent devastating diseases,” said Representative Sires. “Through strong U-S leadership in global health R&D, we can leverage of private sector’s expertise and resources to develop new life-saving technologies to improve the health of some of the most vulnerable people across the globe.” Speakers included Amie Batson, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Global Health at USAID, Dolly Nyasulu, a Project Director for the Maternal and Newborn Technology Initiative at PATH, and Ted Prusik, Vice President at TempTime spoke on the panel. PATH’s CEO and President, Chistopher J. Elias, moderated the discussion. The expert panel discussed how the public and private sectors are working together to catalyze innovative, simple solutions to save lives and improve health care around the world. On June 3, 2011, Representative Sires introduced H.R. 2144, 21st Century Global Health Technology Act, to codify a program at the U.S. Agency for International Development that funds research to develop new health technologies. ###
06.14.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 14, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, DC-- Today, Congressman Sires voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2012 Military Construction/VA Appropriations bill. This bill, which the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 411 to 5, funds military construction and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) programs. “It is critical to the future of our country that my colleagues and I in Congress remain committed to our nation’s veterans,” said Congressman Sires. “I can think of no better way of honoring our men and women in uniform than supporting them once they return home.” The bill provides $58.3 billion in discretionary funding for VA programs, an increase of $1.8 billion over the FY 2011. This bill also provides $14 billion for military construction projects. With this funding, the VA will be able to provide quality medical care to more than 5.5 million veterans in 2012, including 536,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. ###
06.07.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 7, 2011 201-222-2828 Jersey City and Newark will receive a combined $1.4 million dollars to redevelop brownfield sites Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires praised the announcement from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of an award worth $3.4 million to six communities in New Jersey to help clean up toxic sites. The funding was awarded through EPA’s Brownfields Program, which helps communities assess, clean up, redevelop, and reuse contaminated properties, ranging from former industrial parcels to old gas stations. In particular, Jersey City will receive two cleanup grants totaling $400,000. Half of the funding will be used to help clean up properties at 451-457 Ocean Avenue and 79-81 Dwight Street, which is the future site of new residential housing, and the remaining funding will be used to transform seventeen acres of former rail yards, junkyards and auto repair shops into a public park that will serve the adjacent residential community. In addition, $1,000,000 was awarded to Newark to redevelop three brownfield sites in the city, including the former Northern New Jersey Oil site, the former Scientific Chemical site, and the former Central Steel site. “Far too often, toxic sites lay as a stain on a community,” stated Congressman Sires. “However, with this funding Jersey City and Newark will be able to transform these sites to provide for the construction of new businesses, housing, and parks that will in turn not only help create jobs but improve the quality of life of the communities’ residents.” More information on the grant recipients can be found at: https://www.epa.gov/brownfields. ###
06.03.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 3, 2011 201-222-2828 Legislation saves lives, reduces property loss and public disaster aid WASHINGTON, D.C. – On June 2, 2011, Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), and Richard Hanna (R-NY) introduced legislation to make buildings safer and increase public safety. Strong building codes will help strengthen emergency preparedness against natural disasters. The Safe Building Codes Incentives Act, H.R. 2069 creates a financial incentive for states to adopt and enforce statewide building codes that would protect communities in the event of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fire, and other natural disasters. States that enact comprehensive building codes will qualify for an additional four percent of funding for disaster relief. Additionally, this legislation will enable states to utilize existing pre-disaster mitigation grants to establish and administer building code programs prior to the occurrence of a disaster. “Strong building codes are critical to protecting the safety and vitality of our communities in the event of a natural disaster. I am proud to sponsor this important bill to encourage states to adopt model building codes that will save lives, reduce property loss, and better construct our homes and buildings for natural catastrophes,” said Representative Sires. “In the past few weeks and months multiple cities around the country have been victims of natural disasters destroying numerous homes, lives, and businesses. While these events have been devastating, they confirm the importance of investing in strong homes and buildings,” said Representative Diaz-Balart. “My goal is to keep our families and communities safe while saving taxpayers money, which is precisely what this legislation focuses on.” Stronger, more modern building codes will make homes and buildings more likely to withstand higher impacts, helping them to remain intact in the event of a disaster. The proactive action taken by this legislation aims to reduce the amount of taxpayer dollars spent on future recovery efforts. Research has shown that having nationally-recognized standards for building codes can provide a tremendous level of protection. The Louisiana State University Hurricane Center has estimated that of the $10 billion in damage to homes in Louisiana, modern building codes would have spared 80 percent of the damage. The Safe Building Codes Act has been endorsed by a large coalition of groups, companies and organizations, including: Allstate Insurance Company, American Insurance Association (AIA), Farmers Insurance Group of Companies, Federal Alliance for Safe Homes (FLASH), Financial Services Roundtable (FSR), Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS), Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America (IIABA), International Code Council, Liberty Mutual Insurance, MetLife, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies (NAMIC), National Fire Protection Association, Nationwide Insurance, NeighborWorks America, Property and Casualty Insurers Association of America (PCIAA), St. Paul Travelers, Simpson Strong-Tie Co., Solutia, State Farm Insurance Companies, The Hartford and USAA Insurance. ###
06.03.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 3, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act, to encourage the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. This bill will codify a program at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) that funds this type of research. “Each year, millions of people in the developing world die of infectious diseases, malnutrition, and complications of pregnancy and childbirth. The 21st Century Global Health Technology Act supports a long-term program to develop much needed health technologies such as safe injection devices, rapid diagnostics for diseases, technologies for safe delivery, and other innovative health solutions,” said Congressman Sires. Through USAID, the federal government is addressing the need for global health technologies by facilitating public-private partnerships to develop affordable and appropriate health technologies. The present program has facilitated the development of over 30 life-saving technologies, ten of which have been commercialized. To encourage and support USAID’s current efforts, the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act would codify the existing program. “I am proud to support this legislation, which will not only help address health needs around the world, but will support skilled jobs for American workers,” said Sires. ###
05.25.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 24, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Sires cosponsored several bills as part of the “Make It In America” initiative, which focuses on job creation and continuing to grow the economy. The “Make It In America” agenda is a plan to create jobs by encouraging businesses to make products and innovate in the U.S. This initiative includes numerous pieces of legislation that work to strengthen our infrastructure and support investments in key areas like education and energy innovation. “ ‘Make It In America’ is an initiative aimed at creating jobs today, driving economic recovery and moving America forward”, said Congressman Sires. “I am committed to making sound investments to revitalize manufacturing in America, that will strengthen American competitiveness, create jobs and ensure American workers can make it in America.” Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 992, Build American Jobs Act, which would extend the Build America Bonds program, provide additional funding for the Recovery Zone bonds, and makes improvement to existing bond and credit program. In addition, Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 1912, Make It In America Block Grant Act, which establishes a grant program at the Department of Commerce to provide small to medium-sized businesses with the resources and strategies to modify their operations and train their workforce in order to transition to the manufacturing of clean energy and high-technology. “I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 992 and H.R. 1912,” said Congressman Sires. “These vital pieces of legislation would help states, local governments, and medium sized businesses in communities hardest hit by unemployment leverage private capital to create jobs today and build the infrastructure that drives economic growth.” The “Make It In America” agenda also encompasses legislation that works to strengthen our workforce. H.R. 1611, the Workforce Investment through Local Libraries (WILL) Act, would amend the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, to integrate public libraries into State and local workforce investment boards. Additionally, H.R. 1325, the American Manufacturing Efficiency and Retraining Investment Collaboration (AMERICA Works) Act, would help workers earn certifications, degrees, and qualifications for the jobs American industry needs to fill. “I support H.R. 1611 and H.R. 1325 because they will provide American workers with greater access to resources and tools to better navigate the job market”, said Sires. “ ‘The Make It In America’ agenda will surely create an environment where manufacturers and small businesses can expand and where workers will have access to high waged jobs.” ###
05.12.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 12, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (HBLR). “I am pleased with yesterday’s decision by NJ Transit’s Board of Directors to adopt a plan that will advance the extension of the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (HBLR) across Route 440. This action begins the process for the extension project to be eligible for federal funding. “Over the past few years, I have worked with NJ Transit and the New Jersey Department of Transportation to secure funding for various sections and planning of the HBLR. Since the HBLR opened in 2000, it has now expanded to 24 stations and provides 40,000 weekday trips. In our densely populated region, it is important to reduce traffic congestion by giving our commuters more transportation options. By extending light rail into new areas, economic development and urban revitalization can be realized. Additionally, light rail saves commuters money and reduces dependence on oil. The light rail has become a vital transportation option for commuters and I will continue to work on securing funds for the HBLR.” ###
05.12.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 11, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires became an original cosponsor to H.R. 1825 , the Commuter Relief Act, introduced by Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), which expands a series of tax credits for individuals and employers to make it easier for commuters to bicycle, carpool, walk, or use public transit. “This legislation gives commuters the flexibility they need to get out of their cars and into other modes of transportation,” said Congressman Sires. “With high gas prices, commuters need more alternatives, and this legislation contains provisions to create true transit equity amongst different modes, and reduce traffic congestion.” The Commuter Relief Act will create transit equity by setting a uniform cap for all employer transportation fringe benefits to $200 a month. Additionally, individuals who are self-employed will be able to benefit by receiving transit fringe benefits for commuting that is done for work. Under this bill, an employer who offers a parking transportation fringe benefit will also be required to offer employees an option of receiving the dollar amount of the parking benefit. A 10% tax credit for expenditures on vanpool vehicles and services will also be created to incentivize employers and employees to commute with others. This legislation is revenue neutral. Additionally, this legislation is endorsed by the American Public Transit Association, the Association for Commuter Transportation, Avego Commuting, the League of American Bicyclists, and VPSI Vanpooling Inc. “With nearly 27% of a family’s income set aside for transportation costs, it is important to provide transportation options to commuters,” said Sires. ###
05.09.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 9, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced that Amtrak will receive nearly $450 million in high speed rail funding to increase reliability and speed in the Northeast Corridor, which runs from Washington, DC to Boston, MA. These funds were reprogrammed from the $2 billion that Florida Governor Rick Scott rejected. “I am pleased that the Department of Transportation recognizes that the Northeast Corridor represents the most viable candidate for true high speed rail,” said Congressman Sires. “By granting this award to Amtrak, the Northeast Corridor will be improved tremendously and commuters across the Northeast will benefit.” On February 16, 2011, Florida Governor Rick Scott declined the $2.4 billion in federal high speed rail funding that was expected to build high speed rail from Tampa to Orlando, Florida. On March 4, 2011, Congressman Sires and 38 Members of Congress sent a bi-partisan letter to Secretary LaHood requested that the rejecting funding be reprogrammed to the Northeast Corridor. This funding to Amtrak will be used to make upgrades in one of the most heavily used sections of the Northeast Corridor (NEC). Upgraded power facilities will reduce power failures that occur in this section of the NEC. Additionally, this project will create a 24 mile segment of track between New Brunswick and Trenton, NJ that will allow trains to reach 160 miles per hour. High speed rail interlocking investments will permit express trains to pass local trains, which will reduce congestion and delay. “New Jersey is ready for this opportunity to have Amtrak increase capacity and improve reliability,” said Sires. “Commuters in New Jersey and those traveling through New Jersey will benefit from these updates that are long overdue.” ###
05.02.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 2, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, DC – Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement following President Barack Obama’s announcement that Osama bin Laden has been killed in Pakistan: “From the banks of the Hudson River, I watched in horror as the skyline of New York City was attacked and thousands of Americans lost their lives in a heinous plot orchestrated by Osama bin Laden. September 11th, 2001 changed our lives and our country forever. Last night, President Obama announced that the evil mastermind behind the September 11th attacks was dead. After a long search, Osama bin Laden has been brought to justice. While the losses suffered that tragic day will never be forgotten, I hope the families of the victims are able to find some amount of comfort and closure in his capture. “The United States’ ability to locate and kill Osama bin Laden is a true achievement. I commend the brave men and women of our military and intelligence community for their unwavering pursuit of this dangerous man and his brutal agenda. Due to their dedication and courage, we have brought justice for the victims of the September 11, 2001 attacks. As a member of the US House of Representatives, Foreign Affairs Committee, a former Mayor of a small town directly across from Manhattan, and most of all as a citizen of this great nation, I also want to commend the women and men who fight for our freedom every day. “As Americans everywhere reflect on this victory against terrorism, we understand that threats still remain. We must stay vigilant in our efforts at home and abroad to protect our great nation, its people and the ideals it represents. God Bless our Armed Forces and God Bless America.” ###
04.28.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 28, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Newark Fire Department has received a grant award of $7,188,576 from the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (SAFER). This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will give the Newark Fire Department the ability to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. “I extend my congratulations to Newark Fire Department for this significant grant award,” said Congressman Sires. “These funds will also ensure that Newark Fire Department is able to enlist and retain qualified firefighters that will effectively combat fires and keep our communities safe.” Additionally, funds awarded by the SAFER program are intended to support the hiring of firefighters and the recruitment and retention of volunteer firefighters capable of safely responding to emergencies. ###
04.15.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 15, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted to oppose the budget resolution for Fiscal Year 2012. H.Con.Res. 34, offered by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI), establishes a budget plan that would end Medicare for seniors as we know it, cut access to education, and significantly reduce housing assistance. Specifically, the plan would privatize Medicare, make cuts to Pell grants and housing vouchers for homeless veterans, and create new tax breaks for wealthy Americans. This budget would gut the Medicare program under the disguise of reform by threatening to turn it into a voucher program that will shift more costs to seniors and their families,” said Congressman Sires. “It also attacks seniors with deep cuts to Medicaid, which serves as our nation’s primary payer for long-term care.” H.Con.Res.34 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235 to 193. House Democrats offered an alternative budget which would invest in American jobs, end tax breaks for Big Oil corporations, reduce the deficit responsibly, and strengthen the middle class and the economy. While Congressman Sires supported this alternative, the measure ultimately failed by a vote of 166 to 259. “We need a budget that reduces our deficit, focuses on economic growth by continuing investments in education, health care, and jobs, and that also eliminates tax breaks for Big Oil and rejects new tax breaks for the wealthy,” said Sires. “Seniors and working families should not be forced to pay for these unfair policies that benefit special interests and allow needed jobs to be shipped overseas.” ###
04.12.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 12, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, on National Equal Pay Day, Congressman Sires became an original cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, introduced by Representative Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), which would close the wage gap between men and women. National Equal Pay Day symbolizes the day when the average American woman’s earnings matches the average American man’s earnings for the previous year. “Although nearly half of the workforce is comprised of women, workplace inequity still continues, and New Jersey women only earn 76.5 cents to every dollar earned by a man,” said Congressman Sires. “The wage disparity is even greater for minority women and whatever the disparity, these gaps are fundamentally unfair.” The Paycheck Fairness Act would amend the Equal Pay Act to make employers who violate sex discrimination prohibitions liable in a civil action suit. This legislation would require the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to train employees and affected individuals on wage discrimination. Additionally, the Secretary of Labor would make grants to eligible entities for negotiation skills training for girls and women. Congressman Sires was an original co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act during the 111th Congress, which passed the House of Representatives, but stalled in the Senate. “Two thirds of women are the sole income earner or co-earner in their family, and pay inequity negatively affects families and communities,” said Sires. “It is long overdue that women be paid equally as men, when they perform in the same job. I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass this legislation as we did last year, so that it can become law.” ###
04.06.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 6, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 683, the Urban Jobs Act of 2011, which was introduced by Congressman Edolphus Towns (D-NY). This bill would amend the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to increase job services to young adults. “This legislation would allow young adults to benefit from successful urban jobs programs implemented by the National Urban League,” said Congressman Sires. “By providing young adults with opportunities to succeed, we can combat the high unemployment rate that is particularly felt in urban communities like the 13th district.” This legislation would authorize the Secretary of Labor to make grants to the National Urban League so that urban jobs programs can be operated through local National Urban League affiliates. The Urban Jobs Program will provide education, job training, and support services for eligible young adults, ages 18 to 24, to prepare them to enter the workforce. Under the program, eligible young adults must either not be enrolled in secondary or post-secondary school, or they must have been subject to the criminal justice program. This bill would also direct the Secretary to establish a National Jobs Council Advisory Committee to create long term strategic priorities for the program. Lastly, this legislation urges National Urban League affiliates to establish local jobs council advisory committees to establish a local community support system. “The National League’s affiliates throughout New Jersey have a proven track record of implementing successful education and job training programs,” said Sires. “This legislation will provide New Jerseyans an opportunity to further benefit from valuable opportunities provided by the National Urban League.” “This bill provides critical funds for job training programs for our nation’s most vulnerable youth. At a time when the youth unemployment rate among African-American males is nearly 50%, we need to be investing in proven programs that can help our nation move forward. I applaud my colleague, Congressman Sires, for his work in supporting this critical issue facing our country,” said Congressman Towns. ###
04.05.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 5, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires testified before the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s, Highways and Transit Subcommittee on his transportation policy proposals including ways to improve commuting and create a national freight proposal. The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Highways and Transit Subcommittee held the hearing to receive testimony from Members of Congress on their priorities for the upcoming surface transportation bill. “As we work together to draft a robust six year surface transportation bill, we must make sure that certain key elements are included,” said Congressman Sires. “My district in New Jersey is one of the most densely populated areas in the nation, and we must make sure that our transportation system is efficient, protects our environment, and addresses the needs of all Americans.” During the hearing, Congressman Sires offered testimony in support of his legislation to reduce congestion and making the nation’s transportation system more efficient. Congressman Sires testified in support of H.R. 260, Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Support and Successes), which would reduce congestion by providing employers with the tools necessary to provide alternative forms of transportation such as transit, carpooling, or teleworking. Metropolitan planning organizations would work with employers to receive input regarding development of long-range transportation plans. Additionally, if construction plans impede the flow of traffic for more than 120 days, or exceed $100 million dollars, this bill would require a mitigation plan. Congressman Sires has also introduced H.R. 1338, the “Focusing Resources, Economic Investment, and Guidance to Help Transportation Act of 2011,”and testified in support of the FREIGHT Act, which would create a national freight transportation policy to improve freight efficiency, operation, and security. This plan would assess the current national freight system and its ability to achieve future objectives and goals. Second, this bill would establish a dedicated Office of Freight Planning and Development, within the Department of Transportation, to be led by an Assistant Secretary of Freight Planning and Development. This Office would be instrumental in facilitating communication among stakeholders and different levels of government. Lastly, national freight infrastructure grants would be awarded on a competitive basis to improve the efficiency of the national transportation system. “The next surface transportation bill should take a comprehensive approach to improve the well-being of all of constituents.” said Sires. “I am looking forward to working with my colleagues on the Highways Subcommittee to draft a long-term reauthorization bill that will invest in our infrastructure, create jobs, and stimulate the economy.” ###
04.01.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 1, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C .— On April 1, 2011, U.S. Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ) introduced legislation to create a national freight transportation policy. U.S. Representatives Steve Cohen (D-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Adam Smith (D-WA) joined as original co-sponsors. The “Focusing Resources, Economic Investment, and Guidance to Help Transportation (FREIGHT) Act of 2010” will develop a strategic goods movement plan, create a dedicated office for freight planning within the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), and establish a competitive grant program. “With freight volumes expected to increase 92 percent by 2035, it is important that our nation is prepared meet these needs safely and efficiently,” said Congressman Sires. “The FREIGHT Act will provide the systematic approach necessary to meet these economic needs, while taking into account environmental and health goals.” This legislation will create an Office of Freight Planning and Development to be led by an Assistant Secretary of Freight Planning and Development. The main purpose of this Office will be to draft a National Freight Strategic Transportation Plan, to assess the current national freight transportation system and describe the major challenges. This plan would also create future objectives and goals, designate priority freight corridors and gateways, and create a proposed investment plan to develop the priorities. Additionally, this legislation will create a National Freight Infrastructure Investment Grants program. Eligible projects include port development, freight rail improvement, intelligent transportation systems, and other projects to improve goods movement. These competitive grants will be awarded to projects with the highest system performance improvement relative to their benefit-cost analysis. “Our transportation infrastructure is outdated and growing congestion has led to increased costs across the nation,” said Sires. “This legislation will update the current freight system to ensure our nation’s economic competitiveness.” ###
03.30.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 30, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue has received a grant award of $171,920 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. This grant will give the North Hudson Regional Fire & Rescue the ability to purchase personal protective equipment such as coats, pants and boots, to keep emergency responders safe in emergency situations. “I extend my congratulations to the North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue for this significant grant award,” said Congressman Sires. “This funding will make sure that our emergency responders are duly equipped in dangerous situations, ensuring that they can perform their duties safely and effectively.” ###
03.16.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 16, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced that two grants were awarded to the Hoboken and Bayonne Fire Departments. The Hoboken Fire Department received a grant award of $427,962 and the Bayonne Fire Department received a grant of $176,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This program provides grants to qualified agencies in order to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. These grants will give the Hoboken Fire Department the ability to purchase a pumper truck, and provide the Bayonne Fire Department with the necessary funds to obtain vital equipment, including thermal imaging devices, a forcible entry prop and a smoke generator for fire training. “I extend my congratulations to the Hoboken and Bayonne Fire Departments for qualifying for these competitive grants,” said Congressman Sires. “These funds will provide our emergency responders with the necessary tools to effectively combat fires and keep our communities safe.” ###
03.08.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 8, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires cosponsored H.R. 929, the Transportation Job Corps Act of 2011, which was introduced by Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and will create a career ladder grant program within the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration. H.R. 929 is supported by a broad coalition of Community service organizations, labor, and transit agencies such as the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), Transportation Trades Department AFL-CIO (TTD), Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), Community Service Society (CSS), and The Corps Network. “This legislation will not only provide job training for existing workers, but will also provide a capable replacements for aging public transportation industry workers,” said Congressman Sires. “With a well trained workforce, our transit agencies are able to operate effectively and efficiently.” Through this legislation, four different grant programs would be created to address job retention and job creation. The Basic Skills Education and Pre-Apprenticeship Skills Grants would provide funds for educational institutions and non-profit organizations to perform outreach and remedial education for “disconnected youth” interested in the transportation industry. According to a report by the Community Service Society, “disconnected youth,” are individuals between the ages of 16 to 24 who are not enrolled in school and have been unemployed for at least six months. Apprenticeship Grants would allow transit agencies to develop labor-management apprenticeship programs. The Transit Worker Education and Retention Grants would provide training for workers and give them the skills they need to retain their jobs and advance their careers. Lastly, the Workforce Diversity Grants would increase education opportunities for those who are disadvantaged and underrepresented among transit management. “This legislation will increase the opportunities available to youth who are most in need,” said Sires. “I am looking forward to working with my colleague from New York and my other colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to move this bill forward in the legislative process.” ###
03.07.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 7, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— On March 4, 2011, Congressman Sires joined 38 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending a bi-partisan letter to U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, requesting that the $2.4 billion in high speed rail funding that was rejected by the State of Florida be reprogrammed to the Northeast Corridor. “I have been a long-time supporter of high speed rail and believe that the Northeast Corridor, which runs from Washington, DC to Boston, MA, is the most viable candidate for true high speed rail,” said Congressman Sires. “I know that New Jersey and the other states that span the Northeast Corridor stand ready to improve passenger rail service in the nation’s most densely populated region.” The Northeast Corridor is the most developed intercity rail service in the nation and Amtrak’s Acela Express currently holds 69% of the air/rail market share between Washington, D.C. and New York, N.Y. Amtrak’s Acela Express has grown its ridership by 600% during its nine-year history. Updates to rail infrastructure and greater funding are necessary to meet high speed rail needs. “New Jerseyans and all Americans deserve access to high speed rail,” said Sires. “With several cities in New Jersey and along the Northeast Corridor ranking among the nation’s most congested areas, it makes sense to build improve the speed and efficiency of our current passenger rail service.” ###
02.18.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 18, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in co-sponsoring H.R. 589, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Expansion Act. This legislation was introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-NY). “While New Jersey’s unemployment rate fell slightly in December 2010, it is still much too high and I believe that providing additional unemployment insurance is greatly needed,” said Congressman Sires. “Our current economic situation has been particularly hard for those who have exhausted their unemployment benefits and have been unable to find work.” This legislation would add an additional 14 weeks of benefits to Tier I of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program. The bill also extends the expiration date of federal unemployment benefits from June 2, 2012 to September 22, 2012. Currently, there are 4.4 unemployed individuals for every job opening. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has found that extending unemployment compensation is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy “I understand that the unemployment challenges are great, and I am working with my colleagues to ensure that the residents of the 13th Congressional District along with all New Jerseyans and all Americans can get back to work as quickly as possible,” said Sires. “I am proud to be a co-sponsor of this important legislation and will push for its passage.” ###
02.17.2011	Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the importance of the United States-Israel relationship during changing times in the Middle East: “In the face of rapidly changing events in the Middle East, we must maintain our relationship with Israel. “Assistance to Israel is an investment in future peace and stability abroad and will improve our national security at home. In reinforcing our relationship with the only true democracy in the region, we can show our commitment to the democratic principles that will ultimately ensure peace and stability in the Middle East.” Congressman Sires wrote an op-ed on this subject, which was published today in Politico. The text of the op-ed can be found here.
02.15.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 15, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Albio Sires reintroduced the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act. This legislation creates grant programs to revitalize parks that must be matched with local funds. During the 111th Congress, a bipartisan group of 132 Representatives co-sponsored the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act and over 30 organizations endorsed the legislation. “In my district, parks serve as the backyard of the community and we see people of all backgrounds congregating in parks large and small,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation will help communities create new and rehabilitate existing parks and recreation spaces to provide spaces for people of all ages to gather.” This legislation will provide four different types of federal grants and technical assistance which must be matched with local funds. Rehabilitation grants would rebuild and expand new and existing recreation and facilities, while innovation grants would address equipment and supply needs for urban parks and recreation facilities. At-risk youth recreation grants provide funds for programs that have shown success in providing alternative activities to children at risk of engaging in criminal behavior. Lastly, recovery action program grants will promote development of local park and recreation recovery action programs by involving the community and youth to develop priorities and goals. During a time when many Americans are affected by deteriorating community facilities, health problems, juvenile delinquency, and limited green spaces, healthy and vibrant urban areas can play important roles. Parks create opportunities for people to become more physically active and can also act to provide alternative activities for youth. Research shows that urban parks raise property values, attract businesses and spur critical economic activity. “This legislation will create jobs, fight obesity, reduce crime, and strengthen neighborhoods by investing in urban parks and community centers,” said Sires. “I have always been a strong advocate for parks and believe that urban parks and recreation centers are instrumental in helping our nation achieve important national goals of increasing exercise, improving health, and revitalizing our economy.” ###
02.09.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 9, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that he will serve as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee in the 112th Congress. As a member of the Committee, Congressman Sires will sit on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee and the Europe and Eurasia Subcommittee. Congressman Sires has been a member of the Committee since 2007. “I am honored to continue to serve alongside my colleagues on the Foreign Affairs committee,” said Congressman Sires. “I look forward to working in the 112th Congress to advance policies both at home and abroad that will build strong partnerships and protect human rights across the globe.” The House Foreign Affairs Committee is responsible for oversight and legislation relating to foreign assistance; national security developments affecting foreign policy; strategic planning and agreements; peace keeping; international sanctions; arms control; and international narcotics programs, among other issue areas. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) will chair the Committee and Representative Howard Berman (D-CA) will serve as the ranking Democrat. ###
02.08.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 8, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleague, Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY) in co-sponsoring, H.R. 458, the High School Athletics Accountability Act. This legislation would make participation rates and expenditures for all high school athletes available to the public. “All high school students - male or female - should receive the same athletic opportunities. Having high schools report basic data on the number of male and female athletes and the associated expenditures is the first step in creating a true level playing field,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation will provide communities with the information to better enforce Title IX, which prohibits sex discrimination in federally funded education programs. For many young women, participation and excellence in sports can lead to educational scholarship opportunities.” ###
01.27.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 27, 2011 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)- Today, Congressman Sires offered congratulations to the Stevens Institute of Technology’s Center for Innovation in Engineering and Science Education (CIESE) being named a 2011 recipient of the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring awarded annually by the White House. CIESE was one of only 4 organizations and 11 individuals to receive this prestigious award. The Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring acknowledge the critical role that mentoring programs play in developing the next generation of scientists and engineers, particularly in groups that are typically underrepresented in those fields. “CIESE is a worthy recipient of this award and excellent example of how mentors can cultivate a diverse array of students to take interest in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education,” said Congressman Sires. “For more than two decades, CIESE has facilitated over 30,000 educators and hundreds of thousands of students with professional development programs and innovative curricula to enhance STEM education.” Beth McGrath, Senior Research Associate and Executive Director at CIESE, accepted the award at the White House today on behalf of Stevens Institute. ###
01.26.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 26, 2011 201-222-2828 (Washington, D.C.)-- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 359 to terminate taxpayer financing of presidential election campaigns and party conventions. This bill would eliminate the taxpayer option to designate a portion of their federal income tax to the Presidential Election Campaign Fund and terminate the Presidential Election Campaign Fund altogether. “This bill would not strengthen our federal election campaign process, nor would it help to correct some of its current flaws,” said Congressman Sires. “Rather, through elimination of the Presidential Election Campaign Fund, this bill would take away the voice of everyday Americans and open the door for large political spenders, such as foreign-owned entities and large corporations, to have an even greater influence on the funding of the political campaigns.” Created by Congress in the shadow of the Watergate Scandal to create more accountability and transparency in the campaign process, the current system of public financing of presidential campaigns allows each taxpayer the option to designate $3 of his or her federal income tax to be contributed to the Presidential Election Campaign Fund. This bill would eliminate this option and the Fund entirely, as well as the Presidential Primary Matching Payment account. “Last year, the unfortunate decision of the Citizens United case paved the way for increased campaign spending by large corporations and outside special interest groups, and I was proud to have supported the DISCLOSE Act which would have reversed this decision and truly reformed our political process by bringing about increased transparency, fairness, and accountability,” said Sires. “H.R. 359 is in direct opposition to the spirit of the DISCLOSE Act and like the Citizens United case, allows for large corporations to play a greater role in our political system.” ###
01.21.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 21, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that he has cosponsored legislation to stop the continuing foreclosures across the United States. The Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity (HOME) Act, H.R. 363, would allow as many as 30 million homeowners with mortgages backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to refinance at the current interest rates for up to 40 years at a fixed rate. Refinancing would allow homeowners to take advantage of the current historically low market interest rates and significantly lower their monthly mortgage payments, resulting in fewer foreclosures and helping to stabilize the housing market and our economy. H.R. 363 was introduced by Congressman Dennis Cardoza (D-CA) on January 20, 2011. “This bill will assist homeowners who are struggling to make mortgage payments and help halt the steady stream of devastating foreclosures that are hitting our communities across the country,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud to support this large scale solution.” The HOME Act would allow all Americans with a Fannie- or Freddie-backed mortgage to refinance-- regardless of whether their loan is in default or current. These long-term, fixed rate mortgages would reduce the number of defaults and foreclosures and stabilize housing prices to healthy levels. Additionally, these opportunities would come at little or no cost to American taxpayers, as the fees for refinancing would be rolled into the new mortgages, and penalties would be waived. The HOME Act is supported by lead economists such as Moody’s Analytics Chief Economist Mark Zandi. “The recovery and health of our housing market is crucial to a strong American economic recovery,” said Sires. “By lowering monthly payments, the HOME Act both offers a solution to those homeowners struggling to make house payments and frees up hundreds of dollars for other homeowners to spend each month into our economy.” H.R. 363 is pending before the House Committee on Financial Services. . ###
01.20.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 20, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that he will serve as a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the 112th Congress. As a member of the Committee, he will also serve on the Highways and Transit Subcommittee and Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee. Sires has been a member of the Committee since 2008. “I am excited to continue my work on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. This Committee will give me the ability to best serve my constituents. The transportation needs in New Jersey and particularly in the 13th Congressional District are great,” said Congressman Sires. “At a time when traffic is getting worse and studies show that congestion cost Americans $115 billion in 2009, it is imperative that Congress pass a long-term comprehensive transportation bill.” The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has jurisdiction over all modes of transportation including aviation, bridges, highways, maritime transportation, mass transit, and railroads. Additionally, the Committee has jurisdiction over matters relating to oil spill laws, economic development for economically distressed areas, transportation of hazardous materials, environmental restoration, and projects for flood control. “I am eager to work with my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to provide all Americans with better transportation infrastructure that is safer and provides them with more options,” said Sires. “Transportation touches every facet of our lives and investing in transportation will create jobs and stimulate the economy.” ###
01.19.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 19, 2011 201-222-2828 Repeal of health care reform would increase the uninsured in the 13th District by 104,000 people Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted against H.R. 2, the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act, to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which was enacted into law last year. The bill would repeal important new benefits of the ACA, while increasing health care costs for millions of Americans, as well as increasing the national debt. “Repealing the Affordable Care Act would have devastating impacts on the 13th District,” stated Congressman Sires. “326,000 residents in the District with private insurance coverage would suddenly find themselves yet again vulnerable to insurers’ devious practices, such as lifetime limits and rescission. Insurers could also once more deny coverage for up to 294,000 individuals in the District, including up to 35,000 children, with a pre-existing condition.” In March 2010, Congress enacted the Affordable Care Act to reform our nation’s struggling health care system. Since enactment, millions of Americans are already benefitting from this law. In particular, insurers are no longer permitted to discriminate against children and others who are sick; small businesses are receiving billions of dollars in tax credits to provide health care coverage for their employees; and seniors are saving money on prescription drugs and receiving free preventive care through Medicare, including 72,000 seniors in the 13th District alone. In addition to abolishing these critical new benefits, H.R. 2 would also eliminate the requirement that insurance companies spend 80-85 percent of your premium dollars on benefits as opposed to administrative costs and executive compensation, as well as eliminate the ability of young adults to stay on their parents’ coverage through their 26th birthday. Furthermore, repealing the ACA would accelerate the insolvency of Medicare, as the ACA is anticipated to extend the solvency of the program by an estimated 12 years. “The truth is that repealing health care reform would increase the number of people without health insurance by 104,000 individuals in the 13th District, while increasing the costs of uncompensated care for hospitals in the District by $52 million annually,” expressed Congressman Sires. “During this time of economic recovery, our nation cannot afford to focus on efforts to revert back to a system where insurance companies’ needs were placed before consumers.” ###
01.12.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 12, 2011 201-222-2828 Sires calls for strong country ownership in U.S. foreign assistance at an event to commemorate the earthquake Washington, D.C.—On January 11, 2011, one year after the devastating earthquake in Haiti, Congressman Sires was the keynote speaker at a policy discussion hosted by Oxfam America to assess the effectiveness of foreign assistance to Haiti. Serving on the discussion panel were development experts Ray Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America; Robert Maguire, chair of the United States Institute of Peace Haiti Working Group; Thomas C. Adams, State Department special coordinator to Haiti; Russell Porter, director of the USAID Haiti Task Team; and Dr. Florence Duperval Guillaume, deputy chief of party at Management Sciences for Health. Cokie Roberts, a senior news analyst for National Public Radio and board member for Save the Children, offered opening remarks on her recent trip to Haiti. The panel was moderated by Oxfam’s senior policy advisor for humanitarian response, Angela Bruce Raeburn. “As we commemorate last year’s tragic earthquake, it is important to highlight the many accomplishments and discuss the lessons learned during the humanitarian response,” said Congressman Sires. “This discussion provided a valuable opportunity to examine how the international community can move forward in the reconstruction process in partnership with both Haitian citizens and the Haitian government in order to create a strong future for Haiti.” The panel discussed the reality of the situation in Haiti, examined lessons learned from the past year, and explored how to improve aid strategy as we move forward towards a stable and productive Haiti. In his opening remarks, Congressman Sires spoke of the importance of country ownership in effective and accountable foreign assistance strategies. “The best rebuilding efforts in Haiti will be those that are truly realized by the Haitian people,” said Sires. ###
01.11.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 11, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires reintroduced H.R. 260, the Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Support and Successes) Act, to assist commuters in finding alternative ways to travel to work. “Often commuters drive alone to work because they feel that they have no choice – in 2007, commuters who drove alone traveled over 750 billion miles, consumed 148 million gallons of gas, and emitted over 1.4 millions of carbon dioxide each day,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation will provide a solution to better connect employers and transportation planners.” Commute LESS will create an employer advisory council to draft commute trip reduction plans and will encourage metropolitan planning organizations to draft commuter trip reduction suggestions in their transportation plans. A formula grant program to local, state, and regional entities will create and expand commuter benefit programs. Additionally, sponsors of large projects will be required to submit congestion mitigation plans. A 2008 study conducted by BusinessWeek Research Services found that nearly one in five employees who drove a car and then signed up for tax-free commuter benefits began commuting by mass transit. The same study found that fifty-three percent of employees whose companies do not offer tax-free commuter benefits would participate in a program if it were offered. These benefits would include the options of carpooling, telecommuting, biking, or creating alternative schedules. “As the Representative of four of the top five most densely populated incorporated places in the nation, I understand firsthand the issues that commuters face,” said Sires. “This legislation will provide commuters with real options to have more flexible work hours, conserve fuel, and reduce congestion.” ###
01.05.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 5, 2011 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires was sworn into the 112th Congress by Speaker of the House John Boehner. Shortly after 2:00 p.m., Congressman Sires and the entire membership of the House of Representatives stood and took the oath of office. Congressman Sires was elected to the House of Representatives in a special election in 2006. This will be his third full term in Congress. “I am honored to continue my work representing the people of the 13th District of New Jersey in the House of Representatives in the 112th Congress,” said Congressman Sires. “I remain committed to working with my colleagues to create jobs for Americans and to make our district a vibrant and healthy place for residents.” Congressman Sires plans to reintroduce several pieces of important legislation in the 112th Congress, including a bill to improve America’s freight system and a bill to promote urban parks. The FREIGHT (Focusing Resources, Economic Investment, and Guidance to Help Transportation) Act would establish a national freight transportation policy to improve the efficiency, operation, and security of the nation’s freight system. The Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act would work to give communities access to green spaces and improve urban parks by providing federal assistance grants that must be matched with local funds to rehabilitate urban parks and infrastructure. ###
12.29.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 29, 2010 (201)-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Congressman Sires recently received information from the Port Authority concerning the raising of the Bayonne Bridge which appears to be the best solution for the residents of Bayonne. With the raising of the Bayonne Bridge, there will be 250,000 jobs that will be saved. The proposed solution, which has undergone strict scrutiny, appears to be the most environmentally sound plan, is the most cost effective, and will have the least impact on Bayonne residents. The estimated budget will be $1 Billion to finance the Bayonne Bridge solution. The bridge is expected to be completed within a 3 to 5 year expedited timetable and it will require supertankers and freighters to continue to utilize Port Newark/Elizabeth after the completion of the Panama Canal expansion in 2014. “The Bayonne Bridge has been a major priority of mine and I have advocated for the raising of the bridge to help save over 250,000 jobs. I applaud the teamwork necessary from the Port Authority, Mayor Mark Smith and his administration, the State of New Jersey, and the entire Congressional Delegation,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
12.22.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 22, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in voting for final passage of H.R. 847, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, by a vote of 206 to 60. This bill would provide long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation for those thousands of first responders and others exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero who are now sick and in need of treatment and compensation. “The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center were not just an attack on New York City, but on our entire nation and we have the responsibility to care for those who served our nation in its time of need,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill will finally provide the proper care for those thousands of people, including firefighters, rescue workers, responders, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, cleanup workers, residents, area workers, and school children, who were exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero and are now ill.” Specifically, this bill would provide funding for a World Trade Center Health Program to monitor and treat responders and community residents for health conditions related to the terrorist attacks. It would also reopen the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund to provide monetary compensation for those physically injured by the attacks or by response activities and debris removal. “These heroic individuals selflessly served our nation on that tragic September day, and it is only fair that we return their sacrifice with just compensation,” said Congressman Sires. “I am very proud that this long overdue legislation will now be sent to President Obama’s desk for his signature to become law.” ###
12.16.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 16, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in supporting the Motion to Concur in the Senate Amendment to H.R. 4853, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act, by a vote of 277-148. This legislation extends for two years the current tax rates on all income earners, which were set to expire on December 31, 2010. “While not perfect, this bill represents the most realistic path forward to ensuring that middle class Americans do not see an increase in their taxes come January 1,” stated Congressman Sires. “If Congress did not step in to prevent this tax increase, the 96 percent of New Jerseyans who have an income of less than $250,000 would have seen a jump in their tax rates this year, which is simply unacceptable.” In addition to the tax relief that the legislation provides, it also extends federal unemployment benefits through 2011 to provide further assistance for the millions of laid off workers. The bill also establishes new incentives for consumer spending over the next year through a two percent reduction in payroll taxes that would help put as much as $2,136 back in the pockets of American workers. Moreover, the legislation grants a two-year “patch” to prevent the alternative minimum tax (AMT) from affecting millions of additional taxpayers on their 2010 and 2011 returns. It also extends critical expired and expiring tax provisions, including important tax credits for American families, such as the Child Care Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax credit, as well as the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help make college more affordable. Finally, it extends tax relief for transit riders and provisions that incentivize clean energy. “This legislation offers the critical relief families in New Jersey and across the country need to continue to rebuild their economic security during our nation’s ongoing economic recovery,” expressed Congressman Sires. H.R. 4853 now awaits the President’s signature to become law. ###
12.15.2010	Washinton, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires wrote the following blog post for The Hill's Congress Blog. For nearly fifty years, Richard Holbrooke passionately served his country. He represented the United States in some of the most challenging of places, and along the way, left his distinct mark on U.S. foreign policy. His passion and abilities will be greatly missed. Ambassador Holbrooke’s accomplishments are numerous and impressive. His breadth of knowledge was astonishing and his expertise in world affairs had few matches. After beginning his career in the Foreign Service in Vietnam, he worked under President Johnson on Vietnam issues. Under President Carter, he expanded his skills as the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs. In the early 1990s, Mr. Holbrooke served as the U.S. Ambassador to Germany, and in 1995, as Assistant Secretary of State for Europe, he was instrumental in reaching the Dayton Peace Agreement that ended the conflict in Bosnia. In his last years, Richard Holbrooke was tackling arguably the most pressing issue facing the United States as the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Drawing on his extensive experience, Richard Holbrooke was an essential element in shaping U.S. strategy towards Afghanistan and Pakistan. He approached this demanding arena with open arms and tireless effort. As the war in Afghanistan remains a primary challenge, the void left by Mr. Holbrooke will continue to be felt. We will certainly miss his diplomatic talent and unique insight, but his legacy will not be forgotten. In his work, Ambassador Holbrooke conveyed the power of focus and hard work and above all the importance of diplomacy. He emphasized military and civil collaboration and always sought a balance between the two. It is these lessons that must not be lost with his passing, for these lessons are critical if we are to make progress in the region. Ambassador Holbrooke was not only a dedicated servant of the United States; he was also a vocal critic of the country he served. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I have had the privilege to hear the always informative and sometimes biting testimony of Ambassador Holbrooke. His frequent participation at Committee hearings not only illustrated his great importance to foreign policy, but it also demonstrated his commitment to improving the interactions among Congress, the Department of State, and the White House. While his critiques at times were harsh, he spoke openly about the system’s shortcomings because he knew the process could and must be improved. It is this dynamic for which he will be remembered, and it is this pragmatic style that will be a model for future generations. While fighting for peace and justice abroad, he simultaneously improved the foreign policy process in Washington. Indeed, we have lost a great leader and thinker, but I am confident that his contributions will shape the course of foreign policy for years to come. ###
12.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on the middle class tax relief package: “Should the Senate, as anticipated, vote in favor of the tax package, I would encourage my colleagues in the House to move ahead and pass the legislation as soon as possible. While not perfect, this compromise represents the most realistic path forward to ensuring that middle class Americans do not see an increase in their taxes come January 1. “In addition to the tax relief that it will provide to the 96 percent of New Jerseyans making under $250,000, this proposal also represents the best opportunity in the foreseeable future for assisting the millions of laid off workers through a 13 month extension of unemployment benefits; given that the holiday season is upon us, this relief could not come at a better time. The two percent payroll tax cut will also be a vital component of our economic recovery over the next year by placing money back in the pockets of workers to infuse money into the economy. “Additionally, this package extends important tax credits for American families, including the Child Care Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, as well as the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help make college more affordable. Finally, I strongly support provisions in the bill that provide tax relief for transit riders, as well as provisions that incentivize clean energy. At the end of the day, middle class Americans cannot afford for this package to fail, and for that I urge immediate action.” ###
12.08.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 8, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in favor of the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, or DREAM Act. The DREAM Act would make it possible for those brought to this country as young children to remain in the United States if they pursue higher education or military service. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 216 to 198. “I am a longtime supporter of the bill, and I am thankful that we finally have the opportunity to move forward with this significant and life-changing legislation,” said Congressman Sires. “Currently, there are young people in this country who know no other home, yet they do not have access to the opportunities that make this country strong. They are unable to resolve their immigration status and therefore can offer little to the country that they love.” This bill is constructed to target a specific population of children brought to the United States by their parents at a young age. To be eligible for conditional immigration status, the young people must have arrived in the United States before they were 16, have lived in the United States for at least five years before the bill’s enactment, and be under 29 years of age. Additionally, they must demonstrate that they have graduated high school, completed their GED, or been accepted to an institution of higher learning. After a minimum of thirteen years and if additional requirements are met, those qualified can apply for U.S. citizenship. “The contributions of these young people would benefit our country and our economy. This bill would allow young people throughout the country to pursue the kind of futures that they deserve. It would also allow our country to take advantage of the talents that these bright young people have to offer,” said Congressman Sires. The DREAM ACT now awaits consideration by the Senate. ###
12.02.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 2, 2010 201-222-2828 97 percent of American families and small businesses will get tax cuts of $1.5 trillion over 10 years Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted in favor of H.R. 4853, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which was passed by the House of Representatives with a vote of 234 to 188, to permanently extend middle-class tax cuts. This bill permanently extends current tax rates on income less than $250,000 for joint filers and $200,000 for individuals. “96 percent of New Jerseyans have an income less than $250,000 and will benefit from this permanent extension. This important legislation will offer critical relief to these families and other middle-class families across the country trying to rebuild their economic security as our nation continues to recover from the recession,” stated Congressman Sires. For families making less than $250,000 a year this bill would not only permanently extend the tax breaks enacted in 2001 and 2003, but would also permanently extend marriage penalty relief, capital gains and dividends rates, the Earned Income Tax Credit, and the $1000 child tax credit (for earnings above $3,000). This legislation would also protect more than 25 million taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax (AMT) by extending the AMT “patch” through 2011. Furthermore, it provides relief to small businesses by permanently extending small business expensing. “For most middle-class families this bill will help them save $1,000 per year, while assisting 97 percent of small businesses with tax breaks as well,” asserted Congressman Sires. H.R. 4853 is currently under review in the Senate. ###
12.02.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 2, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing S. 3707, the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act by a vote of 264 - 157. This bill addresses childhood hunger, child nutrition program management, and child obesity. This legislation was previously passed by unanimous consent by the Senate on August 5, 2010, and will now be sent to the President’s desk for signature. “This bill will play a crucial role in improving the health and wellness of our children,” said Congressman Sires. “In 2009, New Jersey’s total participation in the National School Lunch Program was 705,558 and low-income participation was 376,871. This legislation will provide $6,817,000 in funding for New Jersey to improve lunch programs. By improving the nutritional quality of school breakfast, lunch, and snacks, we can make progress towards ending obesity and creating a healthy lifestyle.” The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act will provide funding to reduce childhood hunger and address childhood obesity and improve nutrition programs such as the School Breakfast and National School Lunch Programs and Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Under this legislation, reimbursement rates to schools will be increased for schools that serve both breakfast and lunch that meets federal nutrition standards. The bill also permits the Agriculture Department to set science-based nutrition rules for all food sold in schools, including food from vending machines. Medicaid data will be used to certify children for school meal programs without requiring household applications. This measure is expected to bring approximately 115,000 new students into the school meal programs. After-school supper programs will also be expanded and is expected to provide 21,000,000 meals to at-risk children. Nationwide over 31 million children participate in the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and this legislation will provide healthier meals to 31 million children and provide over $300 million to states. The poverty rate for children in the United States is currently 20.7 percent, an increase of 15.6 percent in just ten years. Additionally, one in three children are obese or overweight, and one out of four young adults are too overweight to serve in the military. “Access to nutritious foods should be made available to all our children,” said Sires. “This legislation is fully paid for and will provide the most significant improvements to child nutrition programs in more than thirty years.” ###
11.18.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 18, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— On November 18, 2010, Congressman Sires cosponsored legislation to protect college students from harassment. H.R. 6425, the Tyler Clementi Higher Education Anti-Harassment Act, was introduced by U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg and Representative Rush Holt and would require colleges and universities to implement anti-harassment policies. H.R. 6425 was introduced in memory of Rutgers University freshman Tyler Clementi, who took his life this past September after his roommate and another student violated his privacy and harassed him. Under this legislation, all colleges and universities receiving federal student aid would be required to implement a policy prohibiting harassment of students based on their perceived race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or religion. Schools would distribute this policy to all students and include information about follow up procedure in the event harassment occurs. Students would also receive information about counseling, mental health, and other services available to victims or perpetrators of harassment. “The Tyler Clementi tragedy and recent suicides of several young people have reminded us all that schools need to implement and enforce anti-bullying policies,” said Congressman Sires. “Offering support services to those students facing harassment is also an important part of this bill.” Additionally, this legislation would require that cyberbullying be recognized as a form of harassment. A new grant program would also be established at the U.S. Department of Education to assist colleges and universities with establishing programs to prevent student harassment. “All students deserve the opportunity to learn in an environment free from harassment,” said Sires. “This legislation will establish guidelines to prevent and counter bullying, and is very much needed in our school systems.” ###
11.16.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 16, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.Res. 1641, Celebrating the 60th Anniversary of Impact Aid unanimously. September 30, 2010 marked the 60th year of the program. “As a Member of the House Impact Aid Coalition, I am proud that my colleagues and I are recognizing the importance of Impact Aid to our communities,” said Congressman Sires. “Particularly when education budgets are being slashed across the nation, many schools depend upon this source of federal funding.” Impact Aid compensates school districts for lost revenue that occurs when federal ownership or activity adversely interferes with basic revenue sources school districts typically use. These typical revenue sources include income taxes, local licenses, property taxes from businesses, residential taxes, and sales taxes. The largest Impact Aid program provides basic support for schools that enroll “federally connected” children, who are children that reside with a parent who is a member of the Armed Forces, foreign military officer, reside on Indian lands, or reside in low-rent public housing. Impact Aid support payments act as a payment to school districts and can be used to hire teachers, purchase textbooks, pay for utilities, and for other needs. “Many students in New Jersey’s 13th Congressional district are deemed to be ‘federally connected,’” said Sires. “Impact Aid serves an important role by giving funds directly to the school district so that they can be used in the best way possible to benefit our students.” Congressman Sires is also an original co-sponsor to H.R. 2280, the Fair Funding for Schools Act of 2009, which will reauthorize the Impact Aid program. This legislation is currently pending before the House Education and Labor Committee, Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee. The Impact Aid program expired on September 30, 2007 and was extended for one year intervals through September 30, 2010. ###
10.29.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 29, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressman Sires announced that New Jersey Transit has received a grant award of $2,484,766 from the Department of Transportation’s TIGGER (Transit Investment for Greenhouse Gas & Energy Reduction) II grant program. In August 2010, Congressman Sires sent a letter of support for the project that will allow New Jersey Transit to install energy efficient electric rail heaters. “I was proud to write a letter of support NJ Transit’s application for this innovative grant program,” said Congressman Sires. “This Department of Transportation grant program prioritizes projects that save energy and lower greenhouse gas emissions, and though the award of these funds, NJ Transit will be able to be more energy efficient.” New Jersey Transit will replace hundreds of existing electric rail switch heaters with energy efficient rail switch heaters. Energy efficient rail switch heaters have a flat shape that conform to the rail and provide more surface contact area. This increased surface contact then provides better heat transfer and requires less energy to properly heat the rail. Energy efficiency is approved by approximately 50 percent and safety and operational efficiency will also be increased during the cold weather. ###
10.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC – Following the tragic suicides of several teenagers, Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement condemning intolerance and bullying: “I am deeply saddened by the recent suicides of several young people who were harassed for their known or perceived sexual orientation. This tragic loss of life serves as a reminder of the private fight that so many of our LGBTQ youth bravely encounter, and of the national fight that must be waged against bullying and bigotry in our communities. “A student from my district recently reached out to me to share his story of growing up gay in the United States. He told me that in school, he witnessed an openly gay student being constantly ridiculed, so he choose to keep quiet, explaining that the thought of coming out was unbearable. This young man came to me with his story to stress that depression and thoughts of suicide are not uncommon among gay teens. Unfortunately, these feelings are familiar to many. We must respond in a manner that will help halt the isolation that so many gay teens feel. “I was impressed by this young man’s strength and advocacy on this issue. He admitted while that the slurs and insults he has heard over the years have remained the same, he has changed. He has learned more, he has gotten stronger, and the insults hurt less. He wants those suffering to know that their lives have value and that their lives will get better. “I want to remind those of you facing discrimination that you are not alone and that it will get better, and if you are struggling, reach out and ask for help. There are millions and millions of your fellow Americans who are standing with you and fighting to erase the intolerance that you face today. They are fighting so that the generations that follow you do not encounter the same obstacles that you face today. As this brave student urged me, I urge all Americans to take every opportunity to reaffirm the value of each and every one of our nation’s children.” ###
10.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded $10 million in grant funding for the Northeast Corridor Multi-Modal High Speed Rail Improvement Multi-State Plan. Funding will be used to develop a plan for improved rail service, analyze next generation high-speed rail, and perform requisite environmental analysis. New Jersey is one of eleven states and the District of Columbia that will benefit from this grant and exact dollar amounts for each state and the District of Columbia have not yet been determined. “New Jersey is an integral part of the Northeast Corridor, which possesses the busiest freight and passenger rail network,” said Congressman Sires. “This multi-modal study will ultimately help to relieve traffic congestion and improve rail capacity through expanded service, reliability, and travel time reduction.” The Northeast Corridor stretches from Washington, DC to Massachusetts and provides rail access to communities throughout eleven states and the District of Columbia. This area represents nearly 20 percent of the U.S. population, and the planning study is an integral step towards improving the regional transportation network. In addition to creating plans for an integrated transportation network, this project will evaluate future development of next generation high speed rail along the corridor. Projects identified under this planning study, will be regionally significant and have no significant environmental impacts. “A more integrated Northeast Corridor will support economic development and meet the needs of our growing population,” said Sires. “The Northeast Corridor already acts to connect various livable communities as well as airports and downtowns. This plan will ensure that future development of the Northeast Corridor includes appropriate plans to best serve our communities.” ###
10.27.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 27, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- On October 27, 2010, Congressman Sires released the following statement in response to New Jersey Governor Chris Christie’s decision to shut down the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) project, the nation’s largest transportation infrastructure project currently underway: “I am greatly disappointed by Governor Christie’s decision to kill the ARC rail tunnel project. His final decision is shortsighted and ignores numerous economic benefits the project would have brought to the people of New Jersey. The ARC project would have created thousands of construction jobs and 45, 000 permanent jobs, and invested in a transit system that would have boosted access to economic opportunity in New York City. With New Jersey’s unemployment rate high, the jobs this project would have created are exactly what our region needs. “By shutting down the ARC tunnel, New Jersey will be walking away from $3 billion in federal funding that cannot be used anywhere else in our state. Governor Christie’s decision to terminate this project will put New Jersey at a significant disadvantage in the long term. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I remain committed to this important project and will continue to support the ARC tunnel at the federal level. I also urge Governor Christie to continue discussions with the Department of Transportation, Port Authority of NY/NJ and NJ Transit until the best cost effective solutions are found and will allow the largest mass transit project in the nation to move forward.” ###
10.22.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 20, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires issued the following statement on FCC developments regarding News Corp/Cablevision dispute: “Consistent with my previous statements and concerns about my constituents, I am pleased that the Federal Communications Commission has taken positive action today in the News Corp/Cablevision dispute, requesting that both parties report what steps they are taking to end the current impasse. "As the federal agency responsible for protecting consumer interests in these disputes, I strongly urge the FCC to ensure that its intervention results in the restoration of programming and a final resolution of this dispute." ###
10.20.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 20, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission has received a grant award of $10,008,056 from the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) II discretionary grant program. The award will support the Meadowlands Adaptive Signal System to improve traffic flow on several New Jersey Corridors. This grant program is authorized and implemented according to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. TIGER grants are awarded on a competitive basis to projects that will significantly impact a metropolitan area, region, or nation. “The Meadowlands Adaptive Signal System project will assist in improving traffic flows in several heavily traveled corridors in the nation, including Route 1&9 which goes through the 13th Congressional District,” said Congressman Sires. “This project will use innovative technology to ensure that commuters traveling on our bottlenecked routes are able to get to their destination more timely and efficiently.” The Meadowlands Adaptive Signal System project will make use of real-time image-based vehicle detection and broadband wireless communication to respond appropriately to traffic conditions. Many of the existing signalized intersections are up to forty years old and are out of coordination with adjacent signals. Specifically, this project will provide algorithmic intelligence to 128 signalized intersections which will allow for maximum roadway capacity. Additionally, this technology uses automated signal timing which keeps operation and maintenance costs low. “As the Representative of one of the most densely populated areas in the nation, I am proud that the New Jersey Meadowlands Commission is receiving this federal grant which will ease the commute for all,” said Sires. “This project will directly result in less traffic congestion, greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption, all of which will make our community a safer area.” ###
10.20.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 20, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.—October 20, 2010, Congressman Sires announced a $2,273,370 grant to create sustainable livable communities awarded to the Jersey City Redevelopment Agency (JCRA) by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Transportation (DOT). This joint HUD Community Challenge/DOT Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER II) Planning Grant will help stimulate a new generation of sustainable and livable communities that connect housing, employment and economic development with transportation and other infrastructure improvements. The JCRA received this grant to help finance the Canal Crossing project, which will address modifications to infrastructure, subdivision of properties, zoning changes and better connection to the light rail stop and bike paths at Canal Crossing. ###
10.18.2010	Washington, D.C.-- On October 16, 2010, Congressman Sires issued the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed that today my constituents can no longer see Fox 5 and MY9 television channels on their cable programming." "As we are all aware, because of a dispute between cable television and Fox News Corporation, cable viewers are no longer able to watch their programs on these channels." "It is time for the Federal Communications Commission to get involved in this dispute by bringing both parties together through binding arbitration." "As the country’s leading consumer protection agency, only the Federal Communications Commission can ensure that my constituents can continue to enjoy the programs they are accustomed to viewing.”
10.15.2010	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires sent the following letter to the CEOs of both Cablevision and News Corporation urging them to place consumers first during their ongoing negotiations over retransmission consent for the renewal of WNYW (Channel 5), WWOR (Channel 9), and WTXF (Channel 29): October 15, 2010 Mr. James Dolan President and Chief Executive Officer Cablevision Systems Corp. 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714 Mr. Rupert Murdoch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer News Corporation 1211 Avenue of Americas New York, New York 100325 Dear Sirs: In a letter dated, October 13, 2010, I urged both of your respective companies to hold my constituents harmless during your ongoing negotiations over retransmission consent for the renewal of WNYW (Channel 5), WWOR (Channel 9), and WTXF (Channel 29) and not to deny them access to broadcast programming on News Corp channels, including baseball’s National League Championship Series, a New York Giants NFL game, and the World Series. In light of the ongoing impasse over these discussions, I now strongly encourage both of your companies to submit to binding arbitration before a neutral third party in the absence of an agreement on the retransmission consent negotiations. I hope that you share my views of placing consumers first and protecting their access to critical programming. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Albio Sires Member of Congress October 15, 2010 Mr. James Dolan President and Chief Executive Officer Cablevision Systems Corp. 1111 Stewart Avenue Bethpage, New York 11714 Mr. Rupert Murdoch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer News Corporation 1211 Avenue of Americas New York, New York 100325 Dear Sirs: In a letter dated, October 13, 2010, I urged both of your respective companies to hold my constituents harmless during your ongoing negotiations over retransmission consent for the renewal of WNYW (Channel 5), WWOR (Channel 9), and WTXF (Channel 29) and not to deny them access to broadcast programming on News Corp channels, including baseball’s National League Championship Series, a New York Giants NFL game, and the World Series. In light of the ongoing impasse over these discussions, I now strongly encourage both of your companies to submit to binding arbitration before a neutral third party in the absence of an agreement on the retransmission consent negotiations. I hope that you share my views of placing consumers first and protecting their access to critical programming. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Albio Sires Member of Congress
10.08.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 8, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that $$33,760,698 is being allocated to New Jersey for small business lending by the Treasury Department as part of the Small Business Jobs Act. The Act was signed into law on September 27, 2010. This lending program will extend $15 billion nationwide to help entrepreneurs expand their businesses and create new jobs. States can now apply for this funding. “Ensuring that loans are available to small businesses is a critical step on the path to recovery,” said Congressman Sires. “This program will improve access to capital in our communities and increase job opportunities.” In addition to the lending program, the Small Business Jobs Act included eight tax cuts totaling $12 billion. These cuts went into effect last week. ###
10.07.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 7, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires responded to Governor Christie’s decision to terminate the Access to the Region’s Core (ARC) tunnel construction project. “Terminating the ARC project has countless negative ramifications that affect our economy and area both in the short and long term,” said Congressman Sires. “By terminating this project it means that the State of New Jersey will be walking away from $3 billion in federal funding.” The ARC project was scheduled to be completed by 2018. The project would construct two tunnels below the Hudson River and double transit service between New Jersey and Manhattan. By expanding the public transportation network, greenhouse gas emissions would be lowered. “The ARC project was lauded as a success during its groundbreaking by a wide coalition of civic, environmental, planning, and transportation groups and was seen as an important way to jumpstart the economy by creating approximately 6,000 construction jobs and 45,000 permanent jobs,” said Sires. “Terminating this project will halt mass transportation progress in New Jersey and across the Tri State area, and will subject our commuters to continued congestion.” ###
10.04.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 4, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sires applauded the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) award of $41.9 million in grants to organizations throughout the nation to fund over 2,500 beds for homeless veterans. The VA is part of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness’s initiative to end homelessness among Veterans in five years. In New Jersey, the VA has awarded the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Newark funds to provide five beds in Jersey City for homeless Veterans for the entire year. On October 1, 2010, the VA announced awards through two programs, the Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program grants. These programs provide supportive housing and other services to help homeless Veterans improve their skills, increase their incomes and attain residential stability. The Homeless Providers Grant program, to which the VA awarded $26.9 million, offers resources to support construction, renovation, and acquisition of buildings for transitional housing for homeless Veterans. The VA awarded $15 million in Per Diem grants, including a grant to the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Newark, to cover operational costs at existing transitional housing organizations. “Our veterans deserve our steadfast support, and I am pleased that the VA has made these funds available to provide transitional beds to our Veterans that are in need,” said Sires. “These support services are essential tools in our fight against veteran homelessness.” Besides housing support, the VA is also offering counseling, education, and job services to help eliminate Veteran homelessness. To learn more about these VA’s services please visit: www.va.gov/homeless or call the VA’s National Call Center for Homeless Veterans, 1-877-4AID VET (1-877-424-3838). ###
09.30.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 29, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— This week, Congressman Sires voted for several bills that work to improve veterans insurance and health care services; mandate stricter certification requirements for jobs-related VA posts; and protect the families of fallen soldiers from predatory insurance practices. Two bills in particular would help ease veterans’ entrance into the work force. “The action that my colleagues and I took in the House today is an important step toward securing our veterans the rights and services that they deserve,” said Congressman Sires. “I can think of no better way to honor their bravery and sacrifice than to support them as they look for work once they return home.” The first bill, the Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare Improvement Act of 2010 would establish a new employment transition program to help veterans develop marketable skills and would create an awards program to recognize businesses for their contributions to the employment of veterans. Additionally, this bill would extend the 120-day period for veterans to apply for disability claims. A second bill, the Blinded Veterans Adaptive Housing Improvement Act of 2010, would authorize $10 million annually until 2016 for the U.S. Department of Labor to make grants to programs and job placement initiatives geared specifically toward homeless female veterans and homeless veterans with children. Additionally, this legislation would authorize the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to make loans to veterans starting small businesses. These two pieces of legislation passed through the House of Representatives on September 28, 2010 by voice vote and are currently pending before the Senate. ###
09.29.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 29, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 847, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, by a vote of 268 to 160. This bill would provide long-term, comprehensive health care and compensation for those thousands of first responders and others exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero who are now sick and in need of treatment and compensation. “The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center were not just an attack on New York City, but on our entire nation and we have the responsibility to care for those who served our nation in its time of need,” expressed Congressman Sires. “This bill will finally provide the proper care for those thousands of people, including firefighters, rescue workers, responders, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, cleanup workers, residents, area workers, and school children, who were exposed to the toxins of Ground Zero and are now ill.” Specifically, this bill would provide funding for a World Trade Center Health Program to monitor and treat responders and community residents for health conditions related to the terrorist attacks. It would also reopen the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund to provide monetary compensation for those physically injured by the attacks or by response activities and debris removal. H.R. 847 is now under review in the Senate. ###
09.29.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 29, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.— On September 29, 2010, Congressman Sires cosponsored legislation to protect American homeowners from harmful real estate practices by banning private transfer fees. H.R. 6260, the Homeowner Equity Protection Act of 2010, would amend the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act to prohibit the collection of private transfer fees on all federally related mortgages. These so-called private transfer fees or resale fees require that every time the property is sold for the next 99 years, one percent of the sale price of property must be paid to an independent third party, usually a developer or builder. H.R. 6260 was introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and is currently pending before the House Committee on Financial Services. “These damaging and often hidden private transfer fees ruin home equity, depress home prices, and undermine homeowners’ right to sell their own homes,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud to support this important bill that protects homeowners from these unscrupulous practices.” Housing developers establish a covenant-- a legal agreement-- that requires the payment of a fee of usually one percent of the sale price of the home by either recording a covenant in the local public record or including the covenant in the deed for each home. Typically, these covenants are in effect for 99 years. A homeowner with a private transfer fee covenant is required to pay this fee when they sell their home. Additionally, each subsequent purchaser of the home must also pay the fee when they resell the home. The fee must be paid whether or not the home has appreciated or is underwater. Furthermore, homeowners often are not aware of these fees until they attempt to sell their homes. The resale fee covenants are usually hidden within complicated legal documents and presented to homeowners in the closing process when the homeowner lacks the ability to fully review or understand the covenant. Additionally, sometimes the document containing the covenant does not require the homeowner’s signature. “It is counterproductive to the health of our housing market that homeowners are required to pay these resale fees to third parties who themselves have no stake in the homes,” said Congressman Sires. “We need to protect consumers from these corporate practices on a federal level.” ###
09.23.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 23, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing the Senate amendments to H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs Act, by a vote of 237 to 187. The bill would expand much needed lending to millions of small businesses and offer tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy and the key to its recovery,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill will help the millions of small businesses across America, including the 779,140 in New Jersey alone, to expand and hire through increased access to lending and offer $12 billion in tax cuts.” Specifically, the Small Business Jobs Act would help small businesses create 500,000 new jobs through doubling and enhancing small business expensing and extending bonus depreciation; allowing for 100 percent exclusion of capital gains on investments in small business; doubling the deduction for start-up expenditures; and allowing self-employed taxpayers to deduct health costs for payroll tax purposes. Moreover, this bill would expand small business access to private capital through a new $30 billion Small Business Lending Fund to provide community banks with capital to increase small business lending. “America’s 27 million small businesses currently lack the access to credit to allow them to compete with large corporations. This bill will help level the playing field for Main Street businesses by allocating the necessary resources to small community banks to increase loans to help small businesses grow and hire more workers,” said Sires. The Small Business Jobs Act now awaits the President’s signature to become law. ###
09.16.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 16, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4785, the Rural Energy Savings Program Act by a vote of 240 to 172 to bring lower energy costs to consumers. This bill would authorize electric utilities in urban areas and electric cooperatives in rural areas to provide low-cost loans to consumers to make energy efficient upgrades in their homes. “Not only would this bill provide energy and cost savings to consumers, but it would provide the necessary boost to our manufacturing and construction industry,” expressed Congressman Sires. “The home construction industry and American manufacturers have been hard hit by the economic downturn with unemployment rates as high as 27 percent in the industry. Home energy retrofit work could provide significant employment opportunities for construction workers while boosting domestic manufacturing.” This legislation would offer homeowners and farmers loans of about $3,000 to $7,500 to eliminate the upfront cost of home energy upgrades, which customers could then repay over 10 years on their electric bill- with their energy savings from the renovations covering most of the cost of the loan. Specifically, under the Home Star Energy Efficiency Loan Program established by the bill, states would borrow federal fund to allow entities like electric utilities to provide loans to consumers for residential energy efficiency measures, such as sealing, insulation, HVAC systems, and hot water heater upgrades. Furthermore, in addition to being fiscally responsible, home energy efficiency renovations as a result of this legislation would cut the nation’s energy use- saving consumers money and reducing pollution. ###
09.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires chaired a summit entitled “The Continuing Crisis: Current Issues in Latino Homeownership” to examine how challenges to homeownership are transforming for Latinos as the housing market struggles to recover. The summit was held as a part of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s 2010 Public Policy Conference. Speaking on the panel were Alejandro Becerra, a Latino housing author and economist; Mayor Wilda Diaz of Perth Amboy, New Jersey; Angie Garcia Lathrop, Community Affairs Executive for Global Corporate Social Responsibility at Bank of America Corporation; and Timothy L. Simons, Vice President and Senior Compliance Officer in the Legislative and Regulatory Affairs Unit of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. “Today’s discussion with our panelists examined Latino homeownership from several angles,” said Congressman Sires. “When we look at the current condition of the housing market, we must examine challenges to Latino homeownership. Latinos are a key component to a successful emergence from this crisis.” Congressman Sires is a member of the Congressional Task Force on Housing Stabilization, a coalition of Representatives working to undertake a comprehensive review of housing stabilization efforts, examining programs that have been successful along with those that are in need of changes and improvements. During his years representing the 13th District of New Jersey, Congressman Sires has sponsored several bills to improve affordable and public housing. “I am pleased that our panel today brought a renewed focus to Latinos in our housing stabilization efforts,” said Sires. “I look forward to continuing to address the housing crisis with a particular focus on some of the issues raised during today’s Latino homeownership summit.” ###
09.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Congressman Sires applauds the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Board of Commissioners for providing up to $1 billion to expedite a solution to the Bayonne Bridge heights issue. The Bayonne Bridge, which is 78 years old, has a current clearance of between 151 to 156 feet and the bridge is too low to accommodate large container vessels. “This funding is a vital step towards ensuring the job security of over 260,000 employees whose livelihoods are generated by activity in the Port of New York and New Jersey,” said Congressman Sires. “Finding a solution to this issue is one of my top priorities in Congress. It is imperative that large vessels are able to patron our ports so that economic success can be generated in the region.” In 2014, the Panama Canal will widen and larger ships will patron the East Coast. These ships will not be able to pass under the current height restrictions of the Bayonne Bridge. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is in the process of undertaking a comprehensive study to examine which potential solutions are the most feasible. Potential solutions include: (1) jacking the bridge, (2) creating a lift bridge mechanism, (3) building a new bridge, and (4) replacing the bridge with a tunnel. Upon completion of the Port Authorities study expected at year's end the most environmentally sound and cost effective approaches will be determined. Local and state officials have been working with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Members of Congress to reach a solution. “A cost-effective and expedient solution is needed to protect local jobs and facilitate an effective goods movement,” said Sires. “I will continue to fight for federal funding to address this important issue.” ###
09.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that New Jersey will receive $268 million to support education jobs. This funding is made available from the passage of H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, which was signed into law on August 10, 2010 and provided $10 billion to support education jobs nationwide. “I am proud that much needed education funds will be immediately disbursed to New Jersey,” said Congressman Sires. “With the start of the school year already upon us, this funding will keep teachers in the classroom and prevent class sizes from expanding.” The $268 million in education funding will be used to minimize layoffs of approximately 3,900 New Jersey teachers. H.R. 1586 is fully offset and is estimated by the Congressional Budget Office to reduce the deficit. Over a period of ten years, the deficit is estimated to be reduced by $1.37 billion dollars. These funds are distributed to states by a population based formula. “Skilled teachers and smaller class sizes help prepare our students for the global economy and ensure that our future workforce is ready to meet the challenges of tomorrow,” said Sires. “Particularly during these hard economic times, it is important to provide education assistance to schools.” ###
09.08.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 8, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- On September 8, 2010, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan announced $1 billion in funding to help stabilize neighborhoods hard-hit by foreclosure in the third round of Neighborhood Stabilization Grants (NSP3). Specifically, Union County and the city of Newark will receive $1,574,051 and $2,018,637 respectively in NSP3 funding. These grants will provide targeted emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire, redevelop, or demolish foreclosed properties. “The NSP3 funding announced by Secretary Donovan will reinforce local efforts to confront the effects that foreclosures have on our communities,” said Congressman Sires. “This funding will be a critical component in our fight to stabilize and rebuild our housing markets.” This round of NSP funding was provided under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in Congress in June 2010. To date, there have been two other rounds of NSP funding: the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (HERA) provided $3.92 billion and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act) appropriated an additional $2 billion. Like those earlier rounds of NSP grants, these targeted funds will be used to purchase foreclosed homes at a discount and to rehabilitate or redevelop them in order to respond to rising foreclosures and falling home values. NSP also seeks to prevent future foreclosures by requiring housing counseling for families receiving homebuyer assistance. HUD will issue an NSP3 guidance notice in the next few weeks to assist grantees in designing their programs and applying for funds. ###
09.02.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 2, 2010 201-222-2828 46,309 New Jerseyans affected by the donut hole have received assistance Washington, D.C- Today, Congressman Sires announced that more than one million seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries have now received “donut hole” checks to begin to close their prescription drug coverage gap. The fourth round of checks since health reform took effect has gone out over the last few days. Under the Affordable Care Act, seniors whose prescription drug costs are so high that they fall in the Medicare prescription drug donut hole coverage gap in 2010 are receiving this one-time tax-free $250 rebate check- and the gap will be fully closed over the next ten years. “This is the first example of how the health care reform bill will strengthen Medicare and help seniors,” stated Congressman Sires. “This check will assist in saving our seniors thousands of dollars a year in drug costs and beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs” Experts estimate that a total of 4 million seniors will receive a donut hole check over the next several months, as these checks will continue to be mailed out. A total of 46,309 Medicare beneficiaries in New Jersey have received a donut hole check so far. ###
08.12.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 12, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced the U.S. Department of Transportation’s selection of eighteen marine highway corridors, eight initial projects, and six initiatives which will be eligible for federal funding under the “America’s Marine Highway Program.” “I applaud the corridors, projects, and initiatives that were selected under this program, and am proud that several designations will benefit New Jersey and the 13th Congressional District” said Congressman Sires. “Using coastal routes and rivers to move goods will reduce congestion, improve the environment, and create jobs.” Marine Highway Projects that were designated and will affect New Jersey’s 13th Congressional District include the Trans-Hudson Rail Service and Gulf Atlantic Marine Highway Project. The Trans-Hudson Rail Service project was submitted by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) and will expand the quality and capacity of cross-harbor rail float services between the Greenville Rail Terminal in Jersey City, NJ and Brooklyn, NY. This project will reduce congestion and improve the region’s environment by reducing emissions. The Gulf Atlantic Marine Highway Project anticipates using the PANYNJ as an East Coast hub port, and the project was endorsed by PANYNJ. This project will establish a short sea service to move export, import, and domestic freight containers and will also entail construction of 10 new green coastal container ships that will operate on domestically produced biodiesel fuel. Additionally, the New Jersey Marine Highway Initiative submitted by the New Jersey Department of Transportation will assess the feasibility and opportunities to develop a network of Marine Highway services both within New Jersey and between New Jersey and ports in New York, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Virginia. “As the Representative of a district that includes the largest port on the East Coast, the efficient movement of goods is critical to a prosperous community,” said Sires. “The Marine Highway Program will provide more options for our transportation system and encourage the use of all modes of transportation.” ###
08.10.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 10, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.--Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act by a vote of 247 to 161. This bill will provide $10 billion in funding for education jobs and $16.1 billion for increased federal matching for Medicaid to address pending needs. The cost of H.R. 1586 is fully offset, and the Congressional Budget Office estimates that enactment of this bill will reduce the deficit by $1.37 billion dollars over ten years. “This bill will not only create or save 319,000 jobs across the country, but it will add to the ongoing efforts to reduce our country’s deficit,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud to vote for this bill, and I am proud that the Senate and the House were able to come together and support this vital funding.” In February 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act into law to get the economy back on track. The Recovery Act has already obligated nearly $11 billion to New Jersey. The law has supported critical programs and projects in New Jersey communities, it has provided expanded assistance to 860,000 unemployed workers, and it has supported 16,000 teaching jobs in the State. The Recovery Act also provided increased federal Medicaid matching rates (FMAP) for all states to address increasing caseloads. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act will continue additional federal assistance for Medicaid until June 2011. H.R. 1586 will also provide $10 billion to support 161,000 teacher jobs. This money is designed to be in place for the upcoming school year to prevent layoffs in schools throughout the country. “With the passage of H.R. 1586, New Jersey will receive an estimated $268 million in additional funding to support approximately 3,900 education jobs, and $399 million for FMAP, a total of $667 million in overall aid. This money will support our teachers and health care access, while preventing devastating cuts to other top priority programs, like public safety officers,” stated Sires. “It is estimated that the 13th District alone will receive $40 million to support 594 jobs in K-12 education,” added Sires. H.R. 1586 will now go to the President for his signature. ###
08.10.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 10, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – On August 7, 2010, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues from the U.S. Congress in attending the inauguration of the 59th President of Colombia Juan Manual Santos. The ceremony took place on Saturday August 7, 2010 in Bogota, Colombia. In meetings with Former President of Colombia, Alvaro Uribe and newly inaugurated President Santos, Sires celebrated the accomplishments of Colombia and the country’s strong partnership with the United States. “I congratulate President Santos and commend the people of Colombia for their relentless dedication to the democratic process, shown through this election,” said Congressman Sires. “In an increasingly volatile region, Colombia has continued on the path towards reform while combating drug trafficking and terrorism. Their efforts have had a positive effect on Colombian and U.S. national security. Additionally, Colombia has made remarkable progress on other fronts, emerging as an important growth market and a leading center for Latin American business. Colombia has consistently proven itself to be an important friend, a reliable partner, and a champion for democracy, and I look forward to a continued partnership between our two nations,” added Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires attended the inauguration ceremonies as Vice Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere along with other Congressional members on the bipartisan trip. He attended the inauguration in conjunction with the heads of the nations of Central and South America. While in Colombia, Sires also met with President Felipe Calderon of Mexico, President Mauricio Funes of El Salvador, President Porfirio Lobo of Honduras, President Álvaro Colom of Guatemala, and President Ricardo Martinelli of Panama to discuss U.S. relations with the region. ###
07.30.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 30, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires voted to hold BP accountable for the disaster in the Gulf, as well as to prevent future oil spills and protect our coastal communities and water. Both H.R. 3534, the Consolidated Land, Energy, and Aquatic Resources (CLEAR) Act, passed by a vote of 209 to 193, and H.R. 5851, the Offshore Oil and Gas Worker Whistleblower Protection Act, passed by a vote of 315 to 93, would create new safety measures, hold the oil industry fully responsible for the cleanup costs of the BP spill, strengthen oversight of oil drilling and restore the Gulf Coast. “Now is the time to stand up to the oil companies and ensure that they are held accountable for disasters like that in the Gulf. This bill would help the Gulf Coast recover, while taking steps to ensure that a tragedy of this scale never happens again,” said Congressman Sires. “In addition to aiding the Gulf, we are also potentially protecting the pristine beaches of New Jersey from ever having to deal with a disaster of this scale.” Specifically, this bill would implement strong new safety measures and hold the oil industry fully accountable for the cleanup costs of a spill by removing the $75 million cap on economic damages oil companies are responsible for paying. It would also strengthen oversight of oil drilling by dismantling the Mineral Management Services into three separate agencies. Additionally, it would provide taxpayer protections to make oil companies pay their fair share for drilling on public lands. Lastly, H.R. 5851 would protect offshore oil and gas workers who report violations or practices that endanger the public to state and federal government agencies. “In addition to addressing the problems that caused the disaster in the Gulf, but it finally makes good on the promise made over 45 years ago that money obtained from the sale of the public’s resources be used to protect and conserve our natural, historical, and recreational resources by providing full funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF),” said Congressman Sires. ###
07.30.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 30, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C .— On July 30, 2010, U.S. Representatives Albio Sires (D-NJ), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Laura Richardson (D-CA), and Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced legislation to create a national freight transportation policy. The “Focusing Resources, Economic Investment, and Guidance to Help Transportation (FREIGHT) Act of 2010” will implement a strategic plan to guide the goods movement, create an office devoted to freight planning within the Department of Transportation (DOT), and establish a competitive grant program for freight transportation projects. “It is important that we make our freight transportation system as efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly as possible to compete in a changing global economy,” said Congressman Sires. “The FREIGHT Act will help us achieve national objectives of bettering our communities through reduced congestion and pollution while simultaneously stimulating our economy and helping businesses to grow. The establishment of a national freight transportation policy will benefit not only my district in New Jersey, which has the largest port on the East Coast, but will also spur economic development throughout the country.” “Investing in our freight transportation system will create jobs, promote economic development and increase U.S. competitiveness,” said Congressman Cohen. “The FREIGHT Act goes a long way toward moving our transportation network in the right direction as we continue to compete in a rapidly changing global economy that depends on timeliness and efficiency when shipping goods.” “Safe, clean and efficient freight transportation is a priority for both the growth and stability of our nation and for the people of my district, through which 40 percent of our nation’s goods are transported each year,” Congresswoman Richardson said. “The FREIGHT ACT is an excellent beginning point to start the discussion of how to meets the ideals of good government and good planning, from improving the economy and our nation’s businesses to cutting down on traffic congestion and pollution. As we work to perfect the manner in which our nation plans its transportation system, we will create a system whose impacts will be felt for years to come.” “As our economy continues to grow and evolve, we must ensure that our country’s infrastructure expands and adapts to meet our economy’s growing needs,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “With commerce and trade expected to continue to become an even greater percentage of our economy, the demand placed on our national infrastructure will only continue to grow. We must respond to these challenges with a comprehensive plan that creates jobs, protects the environment and improves the freight transportation infrastructure of our nation. This bill is an important step in that direction.” This legislation calls for the establishment of an Office of Freight Planning and Developments within the DOT to be led by the Assistant Secretary of Freight Planning and Development. This Office will be instrumental in creating the National Freight Strategic Transportation Plan, which will assess the current national freight transportation system and the ability to achieve future objectives and goals. This Plan will also designate priority freight corridors and gateways. Additionally, a National Freight Infrastructure Investment Grants program will be created for freight transportation infrastructure including port development, freight rail improvement, and other projects that will improve access to freight facilities. These competitive grants will be used for projects that have the highest system performance improvement relative to their benefit-cost analysis. Major objectives of this legislation include promoting energy conservation, advancing public safety, improving reliability of the transportation system, strengthening U.S. economic competitiveness, and promoting partnerships between Federal, State, and local governments along with the private sector and other transportation stakeholders. The FREIGHT Act was introduced as the House companion to S. 3629 introduced by U.S. Senators Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) on July 22, 2010. The bill is endorsed by the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors. Click here to view the Coalition for America's Gateways and Trade Corridors' support letter. ###
07.29.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 29, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5850 the fiscal year 2011 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, by a vote of 251 - 167. “This legislation prioritizes the creation of jobs, provision of foreclosure counseling, and improvement of safety to those who use our transportation system,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill is also fiscally responsible and achieves savings by cutting lower-priority programs.” The Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act provides resources to keep our transportation system efficient, safe, and secure. In an effort to increase use of public transportation, this legislation includes investments in high-speed passenger rail as well as new commuter rail and light rail systems. Investments in the bill are expected to create more than 160,000 new jobs. More specifically, the investment of for highway construction would create more than 142,000 new jobs in highway construction, which is one of the hardest hit unemployment sectors. In the public transit sector, more than 20,000 new jobs are estimated to be created. In order to ensure that all Americans have access to housing this legislation provides assistance to families who are at risk of foreclosure. Increased funding is provided for rental vouchers and housing assistance to help those most in need – the disabled, the elderly, and homeless veterans. Additionally, this bill encourages sustainable practices in energy planning, local housing, and transportation which would create livable communities for all. “As the Representative of an urban district, transportation plays an enormous role in everyone’s lives and I am proud to support passage of this bill,” said Sires. “This legislation is a key part of Congress’ long-term economic plan to create good-paying jobs here in the United States and provide much-needed homeowner relief.” ###
07.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in support of our nation’s veterans by voting for H.R. 5822, the fiscal year 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which passed the House by a vote of 411 to 6. “This bill provides critical investments that provide our veterans, our troops, and our military families with the care they deserve,” said Congressman Sires. This bill supports the people that we all depend on to keep the country safe, and I am pleased its passage was a bipartisan effort.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill provides funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), including mandatory VA programs, and resources for military construction and family housing. The bill also includes advance appropriations for VA medical accounts. The investments in H.R. 5822 help ensure that our veterans receive uninterrupted health benefits and allow disabled veterans to receive new family caregiver benefits. This legislation will give the VA the resources it needs to reduce claims backlogs and process the newly eligible claims regarding exposure to Agent Orange. H.R. 5822 also includes funding for veterans housing programs, and it accelerates environmental cleanup projects at closed military based. “Today’s action in the House represents a critical investment in the men and women who have sacrificed greatly for our nation. This bill provides needed medical support and homelessness assistance, while improving oversight and transparency to best manage tax payer dollars,” said Sires. ###
07.22.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 22, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4213, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2010 by a vote of 272 - 152. This bill will now go directly to the President to be signed into law to provide unemployment benefits “I have repeatedly supported unemployment extensions that have come to a vote in the House of Representatives because I recognize that these benefits are a lifeline to families struggling through these tough economic times,” said Congressman Sires. “Extending unemployment benefits are a proven way to stimulate the economy and get people back to work.” This bill will extend unemployment benefits through November 30, 2010. Additionally, this bill will retroactively restore benefits to those who have used up their standard 26 weeks of unemployment, some of whom have started losing benefits as early as the end of May. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, extending unemployment extensions creates up to $1.90 in economic activity for every dollar in unemployment benefits. Chief economist Mark Zandi of Moodys.com estimates that every dollar in unemployment benefits creates at least $1.61 in economic activity. “Giving New Jerseyans the resources necessary to find employment is my greatest priority,” said Sires. “I am proud that benefits will now be available to those who are most in need and I will continue to focus my efforts on legislation that creates jobs.” ###
07.01.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 1, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted to fund pressing domestic needs, such as summer job programs for youth, education, and border security, as well as relief efforts abroad. The 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act, which the House of Representatives passed on July 1, 2010 would, among other measures, provide $10 billion for a Education Jobs Fund, $180 million for innovative technology energy loans, and grant over $600 million for other domestic needs in discretionary appropriations. “This bill is a smart, flexible response to of our nation’s most immediate needs,” said Congressman Sires. “I am also pleased that this bill includes forward-looking measures to fund our future, like innovative technology energy loans.” In addition, this spending measure would provide $83 million for unemployment assistance related to the Gulf oil spill and an oil spill relief emergency program. To prevent impending layoffs and increase access to college, this legislation provides emergency support to local school districts through the Education Jobs Fund and provides $4.95 billion for the Pell Grant Program. This bill also provides $701 for the President’s plan for increased enforcement along the southern border, $5.1 billion for the FEMA Disaster Relief Fund, and $50 million for The Emergency Food Assistance Program. As part of the passage of the 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act, the House of Representatives passed a budget enforcement resolution for fiscal year 2011. This resolution sets an overall limit on discretionary spending in next year's appropriations bills, sets the goal of returning the budget to primary balance by 2015, and reinforces the House’s commitment to pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) principles. Together with the statutory PAYGO bill signed into law this year, this resolution provides a budget plan for the near term while Congress addresses a long-term budget solution. ###
06.30.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 30, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted to restore responsibility and accountability to the financial system and protect consumers from unfair financial practices. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 237 to 192, works to prevent the risky financial practices that lead to the financial meltdown, restore power to the consumer, and bring transparency to the financial system. “It is time to end the reckless practices that left millions of Americans without their homes, savings or jobs,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud to vote to bring transparency and tough oversight to our financial institutions and put power back into the hands of the American consumer.” This bill would create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices. This independent bureau would provide clear and accurate information to consumers to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. Similar to how the Food and Drug Administration operates, the CFPB would set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive “fine print,” and other financial abuses. This bill also gives consumers the ability to monitor their personal financial rating by allowing free access to their credit score if their score negatively affects them in a financial transaction. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act would also reform the mortgage system. This legislation would require that lenders must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans that they are sold. It would prohibit unfair lending practices and boost homeownership counseling. Additionally, this bill would tackle the ongoing effects of the mortgage crisis by providing $1 billion for emergency mortgage relief and $1 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program. “With the passage of this bill, we are building a future of financial stability for the American people,” said Congressman Sires. “We are forcefully rejecting the status quo so that a similar financial crisis does not occur again.” ###
06.25.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 25, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that New Jersey will receive $1,477,396 for On-the-Job Training, National Emergency grants. These grants were made available as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “These grants will assist unemployed workers by updating their job skills and providing a paycheck,” said Congressman Sires. “In this time of economic hardship, it is important to provide those who are unemployed the tools necessary to succeed in securing permanent employment.” A total of $75 million in funds will be used for On-the-Job Training, National Emergency Grants to 41 states, the District of Columbia, and three federally recognized Native American tribes. To encourage employer participation in these projects, partial reimbursement is provided to offset costs. Participants are given the opportunity to “earn and learn,” which means in addition to developing occupational skills, they also earn a paycheck similar to the wages of current employees holding a similar position. On-the-Job training opportunities focus on providing unique opportunities to those who already possess job skills by teaching them new and updated skills. “I am a strong supporter of on-the-job training opportunities and believe they are one of the best training methods,” said Sires. “These grants will benefit employers and workers alike, and will ultimately assist in propelling our economic recovery forward.” ###
06.25.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 24, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires voted to pass a series of comprehensive sanctions aimed at persuading Iran to change its conduct. The conference agreement for H.R. 2194, the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 408 to 8. This legislation will strengthen the underlying Iran Sanctions Act (ISA) by imposing an array of tough new economic penalties on a variety of targets, ranging from businesses involved in refined petroleum sales to Iran to international banking institutions involved with Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), Iran’s illicit nuclear program or its support for terrorism. The final version of H.R. 2194 passed through the Senate on June 24, 2010 by a vote of 99 to 0 and will now go to President Obama for signature. “These sanctions send a clear message to the Iranian Regime that the status quo of deliberate disregard for the international community will not be tolerated,” said Congressman Sires. “The Iranian regime must halt its nuclear program.” Among other provisions, this legislation expands the scope of sanctions authorized under ISA by imposing sanctions on foreign companies that sell Iran goods or services that assist it in developing its energy sector-- not just those companies that invest in Iran’s energy sector. This legislation also sanctions foreign banks that do business with the IRGC or with blacklisted institutions by banning U.S. banks from engaging in financial transactions with them. Finally, H.R. 2194 imposes significant financial penalties and travel restrictions to those in the Iranian regime that violate and abuse human rights. H.R. 2194 reinforces and strengthens recently-enacted UN sanctions on Iran. “This important bill gives the United States a multifaceted set of tools to sanction Iran’s nuclear program from several angles and send a clear signal that Tehran must cease its horrific human rights abuses,” said Congressman Sires. ###
06.24.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 24, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5175, the Democracy is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections Act also known as the DISCLOSE Act. The bill passed by a vote of 219 – 206. This bill was created in response to the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision and will enhance the transparency involved in political spending. “This legislation is necessary to address with the Citizens United decision, which greatly expanded the rights of corporations by giving them unlimited spending power for elections,” said Congressman Sires. “The role of money in elections plays too large a role in elections, and this bill will strengthen disclosure requirements which will ensure that the role of money is limited.” H.R. 5175 will enhance requirements for disclosure of political spending. Corporations, unions, and political action committees must disclose on their website their campaign-related expenditures within 24 hours of reporting expenditures to the Federal Election Commission. Additionally, all campaign-related expenditures must be disclosed to shareholders in financial reports on a periodic or annual basis. Organizations who receive taxpayer money will also be prohibited from using those funds to influence elections by purchasing advertisements. In order to ensure that Americans know who is behind a particular political advertisement, H.R. 5175 will require sponsors and funders of political advertisements to identify themselves. Just like candidates running for office, this Act will require CEO’s or other high ranking officials to say that they “approve this message.” This legislation also prevents foreign influence in American elections and corporations owned by foreign companies will not be allowed to make political expenditures. “Special interests and foreign governments should not be given the power to secretively influence our elections,” said Sires. “This legislation will allow all Americans to know the special interests that are behind political advertisements. Shining sunlight into the political process will benefit us all.” ###
06.17.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 17, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act by a vote of 241 to 182. This legislation works to help small businesses expand through investments in state programs and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. “I repeatedly hear from my constituents that run small businesses that they are anxious for access to more capital,” said Congressman Sires. “The small business bills that the House passed this week will expand access to loans and give small business owners an opportunity to grow their businesses, expand our job market, and put our economy on a strong track to recovery.” H.R. 5297 would create a $30 billion small business lending fund for small and medium sized community banks with under $10 billion in assets that could leverage up to $300 billion in lending. To make sure that loans are going to small businesses, this legislation includes tough performance-based incentives for banks to expand their small business lending programs. Additionally, this bill provides $2 billion in funding for new or existing state lending programs. These programs use small amounts of public dollars to generate substantial private bank financing. H.R. 5297 will now be combined with H.R. 5486, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act, which the House of Representatives passed on June 15, 2010, and sent to the Senate for consideration. ###
06.16.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 16, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.--Today, Congressman Albio Sires strongly condemned Fidel Castro’s recent statements regarding Israel. In a state-run publication, Castro stated, “The hatred felt by the state of Israel against the Palestinians is such that they would not hesitate to send the one-and-a-half million men, women and children of that country to the crematoria where millions of Jews of all ages were exterminated by the Nazis. It would seem that the Fuehrer's swastika is today Israel's banner.” The Cuban regime’s mission to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva distributed these comments widely to foreign officials and journalists. In response to these events, Congressman Sires released the following statement: "The Cuban regime’s mission to the United Nations is widely known for their propaganda and hate speech. Their position on the U.N. Human Rights Council would be laughable if it weren’t so damaging to the fight for universal human rights. Castro’s shocking remarks display a disregard for the democratic ideals that Israel represents and the persecution that the Jewish people endured under the Nazis. These offensive comments articulate the anti-Semitic position of the Cuban regime. These statements against Israel should further illustrate that engagement with such a belligerent regime is not only a mistake, but dangerous to the United States, dangerous to Israel and threatening to the prospect of lasting peace in the region. "The Cuban regime currently holds over 200 political prisoners in horrid jails throughout the island. Fidel Castro sat ideally by while political prisoner Orlando Zapata Tamayo died after a lengthy hunger strike in protest of the regimes repression. Most recently, Cuba refused the United Nations special investigators on torture to enter Cuba and expressed its disgust with the State Department’s human trafficking report detailing violations in Cuba. It is not surprising that Castro, a repressive dictator and sponsor of terrorism, would gruesomely attack Israel while choosing to ignore the human rights violations perpetuated by Hamas." ###
06.15.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 15, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Congressmen Lincoln Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), along with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), today commented on a letter sent to Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN) by 256 Cuban former political prisoners who suffered a combined 3,551 years as political prisoners in the Castros’ gulags. The letter by the former political prisoners was in reaction to comments made by Rep. Peterson last week when he declared that, “…people who oppose [H.R. 4645] are not speaking on behalf of the Cuban people, regardless of what they say.” “No one has more moral authority to speak regarding the Cuban tragedy than Cuban political prisoners and former political prisoners. This letter by 256 former Cuban political prisoners is extremely powerful and must be listened to,” commented Rep. Lincoln Diaz-Balart. “Some of my colleagues believe that enhancing trade and doing away with regulations with the dictatorial regime in Cuba will somehow improve the lot of the Cuban people. The world has been trading with Cuba for the last half a century and what benefits has this brought to the Cuban people? None. On the contrary, Cubans have endured more oppression and repression at every level of society, from preschool to the workplace. Enhanced US trade to Cuba will only add to the coffers of a regime that does everything within its grasp to take away every right from the Cuban people. The letter of these brave former political prisoners should bring some common sense to those who put profit over freedom,” declared Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “These former political prisoners experienced the cruelty of the Castro regime for decades, and they understand how increased resources can and will be used to repress civil society in Cuba,” said Congressman Sires. “Their voices must be respected and heard.” “The signatories of this letter to Rep. Peterson not only represent the suffering of the Cuban people, they are also the embodiment of the struggle for Cuba’s freedom,” remarked Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart. Below, please find the text of letter sent to Congressman Peterson today along with the list of signatories, including number of years as political prisoners: June 15, 2010 Chairman Collin Peterson Committee on Agriculture U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Peterson: We are former Cuban political prisoners who have spent a combined 3,551 years in Castro's gulag. We are living testimony of the unspeakable tortures, cruelty and deprivations of the military dictatorship of the Castro brothers. You recently released a statement concerning H.R. 4645 claiming that, “…people who oppose this bill are not speaking on behalf of the Cuban people, regardless of what they say.” Not only is your statement untrue, but also profoundly insulting to us. We are a community that is comprised of victims of the Castro dictatorship. Mr. Peterson, we are “Cuban people” and we wholeheartedly oppose your bill. Your statement is all the more offensive when you take into account that the Cuban-American community has four Members that we elect to the U.S. House of Representatives and all four oppose your legislation as well. How dare you profess to know more about the Cuban people, or our plight, than the Members who are elected by us and the family members of Cubans from the island? You have every right to try to advance your agricultural agenda. However, you are not entitled to question our community, which is full of Castro’s victims -- who have suffered brutality that you could not even fathom -- and whose relatives on the island continue to be the victims of that dictatorship’s daily repression. You have consistently demonstrated a lack of sensitivity to the suffering of our people and an apparent lack of awareness regarding the important leverage that U.S. sanctions represents to our struggle for Cuba’s freedom. You recently stated, “None of us support the Cuban Government’s detainment of political prisoners. However, these policies we have in place today have done nothing to remove the regime or to improve the situation for political prisoners.” Nonetheless, you have never taken the time to meet with any of us, nor have you ever invited us to testify before your committee. If you had, you would not be able to ignore the fact that every dollar your legislation seeks to place in the coffers of the Castro regime will only be used to further repress the Cuban people. Should this legislation pass, Mr. Peterson, we trust that you will be prepared to assume the responsibility for the increased bloodshed it will cause the people of Cuba. Mr. Peterson, you owe us, our community and our elected Representatives an immediate apology for your offensive statement. Though you may disagree with our views, we hope you will not continue to impugn us for our suffering, deeply held beliefs and tragic experiences. Sincerely, Ignacio Cuesta Valle 29 years in prison Antonio López Muñoz 28 years in prison Dasio René Hernández Peña 28 years in prison Dr. Alberto Fibla 28 years in prison Pastor Macurán 28 years in prison Roberto Martin Perez 28 years in prison Roberto Perdomo 28 years in prison Teodoro González 28 years in prison Jose L. Pujals 27 years in prison Miguel A. Alvarez Cardentey 27 years in prison Aldo Chaviano 26 years in prison Eleno Oviedo 26 years in prison Pablo Prieto 26 years in prison Ramón Méndez Pimentel 26 years in prison Ramon Conte 26 years in prison Víctor M. Cantón 26 years in prison Alberto Grau 25 years in prison Angel L. Arguelles 25 years in prison Felipe Alonso 25 years in prison Orlando R. Molina 25 years in prison Osvaldo Figueroa 25 years in prison Ricardo Montero Duque 25 years in prison Angel Pardo Mazorra 24 years in prison Ramón San Roman 24 years in prison Reinaldo Figueroa 24 years in prison Alberto Jané 23 years in prison Armando Yong 23 years in prison Oscar Rodríguez Terrero 23 years in prison Reinaldo López Lima 23 years in prison Armando Valladares 22 years in prison Basilio Guzmán 22 years in prison Carlos Pons 22 years in prison Efraín Llerena 22 years in prison Ernesto Díaz 22 years in prison Eugenio Silva 22 years in prison José A. Lamas 22 years in prison Silvino Rodríguez Barrientos 22 years in prison Abel Nieves 21 years in prison Bruno Salas 21 years in prison J. René Ramos 21 years in prison José J. Santana 21 years in prison Roberto Ascue 21 years in prison Adalberto Sánchez Zamora 20 years in prison Alfredo Mustelier Nuevo 20 years in prison Angel De Fana 20 years in prison Geovani Perera 20 years in prison Huber Matos 20 years in prison Jaime Costa 20 years in prison Julio R. Sosa 20 years in prison Lázaro Guerra 20 years in prison Olvildo Praderas Montero 20 years in prison Roger Reyes 20 years in prison Ana Lazara Rodriguez 19 years in prison Angel Alfonso Alemán 19 years in prison Edelmiro Delgado 19 years in prison Eduardo de Juan Machado 19 years in prison Ereido Cruz 19 years in prison Gustavo Gallardo 19 years in prison José M. Del Pino 19 years in prison Luis Zúñiga 19 years in prison Marcelo Morgado 19 years in prison Raimundo J. Solís 19 years in prison Alejandro Moreno 18 years in prison Aurelio Candelaria 18 years in prison Daniel Gómez 18 years in prison Eddie Artze 18 years in prison Eduardo Piedra 18 years in prison Humberto Hernández 18 years in prison Joaquím Chanying 18 years in prison José F. Pérez Sánchez 18 years in prison Juan Prieto 18 years in prison Martín Hernández 18 years in prison Miriam Ortega 18 years in prison Rafael Rodríguez 18 years in prison Raúl Pérez Coloma 18 years in prison Roberto Gesni 18 years in prison Rubén Gonzalo García 18 years in prison Servando Infante 18 years in prison Arsenio Parodi 17 years in prison Fidelina Fernández 17 years in prison Georgina Cid 17 years in prison José A. Núñez 17 years in prison Mario E. Atía 17 years in prison Orlando Castro 17 years in prison René Cruz 17 years in prison Roberto Jiménez 17 years in prison Roberto Rivero Gómez 17 years in prison Angel Lucena 16 years in prison Antonio García Rivero 16 years in prison Caridad Roque 16 years in prison Evaristo Sotolongo 16 years in prison Francisco Javier Denis 16 years in prison Jesús Rodriguez Beruvides 16 years in prison José Carreño 16 years in prison Luis González Infante 16 years in prison Manuel Barba 16 years in prison Mario Fajardo 16 years in prison Mercedes Peña 16 years in prison Pedro Fuentes Cid 16 years in prison Raúl García 16 years in prison Agustín Robaina 15 years in prison Alberto Montes 15 years in prison Angel Cuadra 15 years in prison Angel M. García 15 years in prison Arelis Rodríguez San Román 15 years in prison Carlos Calvo 15 years in prison Delio Blanco 15 years in prison Edel Ravelo 15 years in prison Francisco Cruz 15 years in prison Gerardo Rodríguez San Román 15 years in prison José Chirino 15 years in prison Juan Ramón Díaz 15 years in prison Luis J. Chirino 15 years in prison Mario Cruz Martínez 15 years in prison Nin Amaro 15 years in prison Orlando Martínez Paz 15 years in prison Ramón González 15 years in prison Ramon "Rino" Puig 15 years in prison Raúl Arteaga 15 years in prison Rodolfo Rodríguez San Román 15 years in prison Rudesindo Rodríguez Blanco 15 years in prison Tebelio Rodríguez San Román 15 years in prison Teresa Bastanzuri 15 years in prison Enrique Cepero 14 years in prison Elio Cuencio 14 years in prison Germán González 14 years in prison Jorge Dulzaides 14 years in prison Omelio Rodríguez 14 years in prison Angel Reyes 13 years in prison Arbelio Marin 13 years in prison Bernardo Ricardo 13 years in prison Eduardo J. Cano 13 years in prison Eleuterio Martínez 13 years in prison Heriberto Castillo 13 years in prison Jorge Guzmán Chaple 13 years in prison Alicia de Busto 12 years in prison Angel García 12 years in prison Aniceto Cuestra 12 years in prison Celedonio Invierno 12 years in prison Feliciano Mohamed 12 years in prison Jorge Luis Delgado 12 years in prison Jorge Valdez Paez 12 years in prison Jorge Portuondo Jorge 12 years in prison José A. Jiménez 12 years in prison José A. Lima 12 years in prison Juan Besu 12 years in prison Jose Luis Gallareta 12 years in prison Juan Casas 12 years in prison Juan Valdés de Armas 12 years in prison Juan Medina Plata 12 years in prison Medardo M. Salcedo 12 years in prison Pablo Castro 12 years in prison Rafael Marques 12 years in prison Reinaldo Aquit 12 years in prison Jesús González Martínez 11 years in prison Edgardo Llompar 11 years in prison Alberto Abreu 10 years in prison Armando Loo 10 years in prison Aurelio Vázquez 10 years in prison Candelario L. Puentes 10 years in prison Emilio González 10 years in prison Enrique Pérez García 10 years in prison Enrique Ruano 10 years in prison Hector Sanchez 10 years in prison Fermín Amador Chamizo 10 years in prison Fernando Arias 10 years in prison Fr. Miguel Angel Loredo, OFM 10 years in prison Frank Perez 10 years in prison Gladys Ruisánchez 10 years in prison Gloria Argudín 10 years in prison Guillermo Rodríguez 10 years in prison Idalberto Sánchez Vidal 10 years in prison Irma Ferneandez Llorca` 10 years in prison Jesús Pérez 10 years in prison Jose A. Gutierrez-Solana 10 years in prison Jose Bello 10 years in prison Julio Cepero 10 years in prison Lionel Rodriguez 10 years in prison Manuel Amaro 10 years in prison Manuel Jiménez 10 years in prison Mariano Rodríguez 10 years in prison Mireya Muro Morales 10 years in prison Nelson Rodríguez 10 years in prison Oneida Fernández 10 years in prison Pedro Juan López Diaz 10 years in prison Raul Martinez 10 years in prison Regino García 10 years in prison Renan Yanes 10 years in prison Ramon Couto 10 years in prison Rene Piedra 10 years in prison Reinaldo Morales 10 years in prison Roberto Gessne 10 years in prison Rodolfo Masó 10 years in prison Sigfredo López 10 years in prison Teresa Pérez Pous 10 years in prison Tony Artiles 10 years in prison Vicente Gener 10 years in prison Víctor M. Hernández 10 years in prison Virgilio Morera 10 years in prison Arturo Estevez 9 years in prison Berta Cantón 9 years in prison Casimiro Lopez Periu 9 years in prison Domingo Martínez 9 years in prison Efraín Taquechel 9 years in prison Elías Gonzalo García 9 years in prison Eugenio Llamera 9 years in prison Gabriel Aztengo 9 years in prison Gerardo Rodriguez Capote 9 years in prison Gregorio Ariosa 9 years in prison Jorge Fernández Rodríguez 9 years in prison José R. Toledo 9 years in prison Luis Masón 9 years in prison Marcos González 9 years in prison María Elena Pujol 9 years in prison Miguel Hernández Falero 9 years in prison Nelly Rojas 9 years in prison Orlando Lopez Periu 9 years in prison Raúl Martínez 9 years in prison Tomás Benito Paz 9 years in prison Adolfo González García 8 years in prison Juan Alborna Saldo 9 years in prison Enrique Ruano 8 years in prison Pedro Corzo 8 years in prison Servando Mesa 8 years in prison Angel Nicasio Bueno 7 years in prison Elías Gonzalo 7 years in prison Hernán Reyes 7 years in prison Alfredo Garcia Menocal 6 years in prison Jorge Cruz 6 years in prison Elba González 6 years in prison Elda Torres 6 years in prison Emelina Nuñez 6 years in prison Ildefonso Pérez 6 years in prison Ino Martell Casuso 6 years in prison José Luis Fernández 6 years in prison Ana María Rojas 5 years in prison Carmelo Zamora 5 years in prison Carmen Voloso 5 years in prison Dionisio Gonzalo López 5 years in prison Dr. Tomás Barrios 5 years in prison Eduardo "Eddy" Arango 5 years in prison José Albertini 5 years in prison Maritza Lugo 5 years in prison Miguel Tatte 5 years in prison Roberto Ruiz 5 years in prison Agustín de Jesús Lastre Barroso 4 years in prison Carmen Arias 4 years in prison Emiliano Reinoso 4 years in prison Ignacio R. Barrios 4 years in prison Juan Hernánez Pujol 4 years in prison Gladys Campanería 3 years in prison Ileana Curra 3 years in prison Pedro Morales 3 years in prison Alvin Ross 2 years in prison Sergio Llanes 2 years in prison Vicente Echerri 2 years in prison cc: The Hon. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen The Hon. Lincoln Diaz-Balart The Hon. Mario Diaz-Balart The Hon. Albio Sires ###
06.15.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 15, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5486, the Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act by a vote of 247 to 170. This legislation works to provide $3.5 billion in tax incentives to spur investment in small businesses, encourage the formation of new small businesses, and grant small business tax relief. “Small businesses are the back bone of our economy and their success is crucial to our economic recovery,” said Congressman Sires. “By investing in our small businesses, we are investing in our future and, most importantly, creating jobs for hardworking Americans.” To incentivize investment in small businesses, H.R. 5486 would exclude 100 percent of capital gain income for stock in small businesses purchased from March 15, 2010 to January 1, 2011. This bill would also fix a tax shelter disclosure penalty which disproportionately impacts small businesses. Additionally, this legislation would increase, from $5,000 to $20,000, the deduction for start-up expenditures in connection with investigating the creation of a business to allow small business owners to focus more on hiring new workers and growing their businesses. H.R. 5486 is now pending action in the Senate. The House of Representatives will likely consider a companion bill, H.R. 5297, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, on June 16, 2010. ###
06.10.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 10, 2010 201-222-2828 4 million seniors who hit the ‘donut hole’ will begin to receive $250 checks over the coming months Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires announced that Medicare will start mailing out to tens of thousands of seniors $250 ‘donut hole’ checks. Under the recently enacted health reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive this one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. The checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months as seniors enter the coverage gap. “This is the first example of how health care reform law will strengthen Medicare and help seniors,” said Congressman Sires. “Prescription drugs cost many people thousands of dollars a year and this check is a down payment on reducing prescription drug costs for seniors, including the 109,000 in New Jersey who hit the donut hole last year.” The checks are just the first benefit of health care reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. Medicare recipients will receive the $250 check automatically once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 without the need to fill out any paperwork. ###
05.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2011 by a vote of 229 to 186. The NDAA authorizes $726 billion for extensive investments in our nation’s defense programs. This critical bill would authorize the programs and tools necessary to protect national security today and tomorrow. Specifically, this legislation would support the President’s counterinsurgency strategies in Afghanistan to stop the recruitment of extremists and prevent future attacks. It would also strengthen readiness by authorizing $7.2 billion for the National Guard and Reserve for needed equipment, such as ammunition and tactical radios. It would support military forces by increasing funding for daily operations and training while providing the resources for additional submarines, ships, aircraft, and vehicles. In addition, to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the NDAA would include $522.5 million for nonproliferation programs at the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy to help meet President Obama’s goal of securing all known vulnerable nuclear material globally within four years. H.R. 5136 would also improve care for our troops through a 1.9% pay raise, the expansion of TRICARE health coverage to include dependent children up to age 26, and an increase in hostile fire and imminent danger pay. “These authorizations are essential to strengthening our military and improving our counterterrorism efforts. This bill ensures that our troops receive the training, technology, and equipment they need to face diverse challenges and provides our troops with the support and benefits that they have earned,” said Congressman Sires H.R. 5136 now awaits consideration in the Senate. ###
05.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5116, the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, by a vote of 262-150 to invest in science, innovation, and education to strengthen U.S. scientific and economic leadership, support businesses, and create jobs in the short and long term. The bill will invest in modernizing manufacturing, spur American innovation through basic research and development and high risk/high reward clean energy research, and strengthen math and science education to prepare students for the 21st Century jobs. “Perhaps the most critical element of this legislation is the investments made in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education to create the next generation of entrepreneurs. Such investments will assist in carrying over America’s competitive edge in technological innovation into the next century,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, H.R. 5116 would foster innovation and basic research by reauthorizing funding for the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, the National Science Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology Labs. Additionally, this bill would help create jobs with innovative technology loan guarantees for small and mid-sized manufacturers and Regional Innovation Clusters to expand scientific and economic collaboration. It would also promote high-risk high reward research to pioneer cutting edge discoveries through the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy. Furthermore, it would improve STEM education by expanding, strengthening, and aligning STEM education programs at all academic levels. “Another important aspect of this legislation is the provision to strengthen our manufacturing industry to propel our nation into the 21st Century. Through innovative technology federal loan guarantees, small and medium sized manufacturers will be able to access capital that will help them become more efficient and stay competitive,” expressed Congressman Sires. H.R. 5116 is currently under review in the Senate. ###
05.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act. This comprehensive bill is another step in addressing the state of our economy. It would create or save more than a million American jobs, as well as extend unemployment benefits and close tax loopholes to enforce corporate accountability. “Even though our economy is on the path to recovery, those Americans hardest hit by the recession are still feeling the impact. This bill would bring emergency relief to those looking for work and their families through the extension of unemployment benefits that are set to expire next month. By putting money in hands of families who will spend it, this provision helps to generate the demand for goods and services, which in turn will help boost local economies,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, this bill would extend unemployment insurance for those seeking work through November 30, 2010 and provide $1 billion for a summer jobs program for disadvantaged youth. It would also provide one-year extensions through 2010 of expired tax provisions, such as the research credit for businesses, the individual deductions for educational expenses and sales taxes. Additionally, it would increase investments in infrastructure, including the successful Build America Bonds program, to create jobs. Furthermore, it ensures seniors’ access to their doctors by blocking a scheduled 21% percent cut for Medicare payments to physicians. “One of the more important jobs measures in this legislation is the commitment to summer youth employment programs that provide disadvantaged youth the opportunity they may otherwise never have to be placed on the path to a brighter future. In particular, funding, including $22,432,212 for New Jersey alone, would be provided to support 350,000 jobs nation-wide, for youth ages 14 to 24 through summer employment programs,” expressed Congressman Sires. The costs of the job creating provisions of the bill are offset by closing tax loopholes to enforcing corporate accountability. Tax provisions that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas would be eliminated, as would the carried interest loophole that currently allows investment fund managers to have their income taxed at a lower rate than every other American. Lastly, this bill would protect our coastal economies, like New Jersey, by increasing the fees that oil companies pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, which is the reserve fund tasked with handling the immediate costs of oil spill disasters. H.R. 4213 is now under review in the Senate. ###
05.20.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 20, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Sires met with 32 students from Weehawken High School. The students raised $1,000 through bake sales and presented a check to the Navajo Nation to assist them in the development of the Navajo Code Talkers Museum. The Navajo Code Talkers Museum will honor the Navajo community and the contributions of the Navajo Code Talkers. “I applaud these students and commend their efforts in raising funds for the Navajo Code Talkers Foundation,” said Congressman Sires. “Through their fundraising, these students have educated others about the brave Navajo Code Talkers and the crucial role they played in our nation’s history.” During the early months of WWII, Japanese intelligence experts were able to decipher every code the US forces devised. To combat this, a civilian who had grown up on a Navajo reservation began a Navajo Code Talker test program. The code was then modified and expanded to conceal war time messages, and the Japanese Imperial Army and Navy were never able to crack the code. “The Navajo Code Talkers not only communicated and transmitted messages, but also participated in numerous battles in the Pacific. It has been said that the taking of important battles such as the Battle of Iwo Jima could not have occurred without the assistance of the Code Talkers,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud that students in my district are highlighting the brave and important work of the Navajo Code Talkers.” During the presentation, Representative Ben Ray Lújan (D-NM) joined Sires. The Navajo Code Talkers Foundation is located in Window Rock, AZ and the Navajo Code Talkers Museum and Veterans Center Project will be built in New Mexico. ###
05.13.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 13, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined concerned colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending a letter to Chairman Obey and Ranking Member Tiahrt of the Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education. This letter stresses the importance of sufficient Pell Grant funding and urges the Chairman and Ranking Member to eliminate the Pell Grant funding gap. “Due to the economic downturn, more and more students are applying for Pell grant programs,” said Congressman Sires. “Pell Grant applications have risen nearly 20 percent and are instrumental in providing opportunities to those who are most in need of financial assistance.” The Federal Pell Grant Program promotes access to higher education by providing need-based grants. While recent legislation provided significant investment to increase Pell Grants, an accumulated funding gap of $5.5 billion remains. Without additional funds, important programs in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill may be cut, and the maximum award for Pell Grants could be reduced. In 2009, Congress guaranteed a maximum award level of $5,550 for Fiscal Year 2010 Pell grants. If the entire funding gap of $5.5 billion were to be taken from Pell Grant program funding, the maximum award per student would be slashed nearly in half. “In our challenging economy, it is more vital than ever to give our children the opportunity to achieve a higher education,” said Sires. “Approximately 8.7 million students will be relying on Pell Grants during this next year and we must do everything we can to make sure that funds are available to provide the awards promised.” ###
05.07.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 6, 2010 201-222-2828 This bill would create an estimated 168,000 American jobs Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives by passing H.R. 5019, the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010, by a vote of 246 to 161 to provide immediate incentives for consumers who renovate their homes to become more energy efficient, rapidly creating jobs here at home, while saving money for American families. “The easiest way for Americans to save money on their monthly bills is to invest in energy efficient improvements to their own homes and this legislation would assist consumers in accomplishing this goal. In all, it would help save about 3 million American families an estimated $200-500 per year on their energy bills, totaling $9 billion over the next 10 years, by aiding them in the cost of retrofitting their homes,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, Home Star would spur home energy renovation with two types of consumer incentive programs: Silver Star and Gold Star. The Silver Star program would provide rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters at the time of sale. Homeowners would receive up to $1,500 per improvement, with a rebate of up to $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. Through the Gold Star program, homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement measures to reduce energy use would be rewarded $3,000 for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, plus an additional $1,000 for each additional 5 percent energy savings up to $8,000. “The investments this bill makes to assist homeowners to retrofit their homes will help grown our economy by creating jobs in construction, manufacturing, and retail- industries that have been devastated by the recession. These are jobs that will be produced in our communities and products that will be manufactured in the USA,” stated Congressman Sires. H.R. 5019 is now under review in the Senate. ###
04.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act of 2010 (Implementing Management for Performance and Related Reforms to Obtain Value in Every Acquisition Act of 2010) by a vote of 417 to 3. This bill would address the current waste, fraud and abuse in the Department of Defense’s acquisition system by improving the financial management system and the accountability system, reforming the acquisition workforce, increasing access to technology, and enhancing competition. “This bill is a great victory for our troops and for our taxpayers. The IMPROVE Acquisition Act ensures that the country keeps on getting the goods and services it needs for a strong defense program, while saving the taxpayers an estimated $27 billion each year,” said Congressman Sires. “With this vote, Congress is continuing to eliminate wasteful government spending.” Previously, Congress enacted legislation to reform the acquisition of weapons systems, which accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Department’s acquisition spending. H.R. 5013 continues this initiative by reforming the remaining 80 percent of the acquisitions spending on non-weapons items. Specifically, this bill would create an accountability system with detailed standards and goals, a requirements process, and an evaluation taskforce. The legislation would also provide better training and tools to the acquisition workforce. The IMPROVE Acquisition Act is now pending consideration by the Senate. ###
04.28.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 28, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires received an award for “Legislator of the Year” from the Association for Commuter Transportation (ACT). ACT is a national organization whose purpose is to expand options for commuters. Each year, the Award is presented to two Members of Congress who demonstrate leadership in providing commuters with options. Congressman Sires introduced H.R. 3517, Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Support and Successes), on July 31, 2009. “My district in New Jersey has four of the top five most densely populated areas and every week I see the commute that many of my constituents take,” said Congressman Sires. “In an effort to make commuting easier, I introduced the Commute LESS to make sure that there is better communication between transportation and employers when commuting options are discussed.” This legislation would give employers the tools and resources they need to provide their employees with real alternative forms of transportation such as transit, carpooling, telework, biking or walking. Metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) would be required to include strategies for outreach and input from employers into the development of long-range transportation plans. The Secretary of Transportation would be directed to create and expand employer investment in transportation and commuter benefit programs. In an effort to impact environmental goals, H.R. 3517 would require states receiving funding coordinate with MPOs to establish statewide goals to reduce the number of vehicle miles traveled. Additionally, this bill would reduce traffic during project construction by requiring federally funded projects to produce a mitigation plan if construction will reduce traffic flow for more than 120 days or exceed $100 million. “We are missing a vital link between employers and planning organizations when it comes to creating commuter options,” said Sires. “My legislation is based on a very successful model in Washington State and I am hopeful that this model will be a success throughout the country. H.R. 3517 will reduce congestion and improve the environment, give employers the tools and resources necessary to provide their employees better options, and make commuting easier for everyone.” ###
04.22.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 22, 2010 201-222-2828 Sires Celebrates the 40th Earth Day Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in commemorating the 40th anniversary of Earth Day and its founder, the late Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin with the passage of H.Con.Res. 255. Earth Day is observed every year to recognize the achievements Americans have made to improve our environment. H.Con.Res.255 passed through the House of Representatives on April 21, 2010. “Since the first Earth Day in 1970, Americans have worked to improve the air we breathe and the water we drink,” stated Congressman Sires. “Four decades later, we have made great strides towards protecting our planet for future generations by making investments in a clean energy economy to create millions of American jobs, lowering energy costs for American families and businesses, while reducing our dependence on foreign oil and our carbon foot print.” A top priority of the 111th Congress has been tackling tough environmental challenges, such as climate change, through investments in a clean energy economy to wean our nation off of our dangerous dependence on foreign oil and create green American jobs. In particular, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, signed into law last year, made historic investments of more than $69 billion in clean energy, including investments to modernize the electricity grid to make it more efficient, tax incentives to spur energy savings, and a significant commitment to clean energy research to build the technologies of the future. Additionally, last June the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act to require a reduction in the carbon pollution causing climate change from major U.S. sources, as well as additional investments in new clean energy and efficiency technologies, such as wind, solar, and hydro. “Congress will continue to push forward with a clean energy plan, but the environmental challenges we face can not be solved by laws alone,” expressed Congressman Sires. “That is why it is important on this day for every American to take a moment and recognize the simple things that they can do within their own homes and communities to contribute to a cleaner and healthier planet Earth.” For a listing of Earth Day activities in your community, please visit https://www.serve.gov/earthday.asp. ###
04.21.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 21, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined his Urban Parks Task Force colleagues in hosting a briefing on the role of parks in developing urban communities. In his speech, Sires highlighted the progress of his bill, H.R. 3734, the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act, which he introduced in October, 2009. The panel discussion included professors from the Wharton School of Economics and Georgia State Institute of Technology, a former NFL player and landscape architect, and a U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development representative. “The panelists for our first Urban Parks Task Force briefing provided hard numbers and facts on the economic benefits that parks bring to our communities,” said Congressman Sires. “Nearly 80% of our nation lives in urban areas and federal investment in parks is necessary to achieve important national goals of increasing exercise, providing safe alternatives for at-risk youth, and spurring local economic development. That is why I introduced H.R. 3734, the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act last fall,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 3734 would provide federal assistance grants that would be matched with local funds to rehabilitate and develop urban parks and community recreational infrastructure. Economically distressed communities could use these grants to improve their recreational facilities and infrastructure, increase economic development, improve safety in communities and provide healthy options for at-risk children. This legislation specifically creates four types of grants--- rehabilitation grants, innovation grants, at-risk youth recreation grants, and recovery action program grants. This bill would allocate $445,000,000 for fiscal years 2011- 2015. “As a former Mayor who revitalized 19 urban parks for a population of 50,000, I know the impact that parks have on communities,” said Sires. “Green spaces play key roles in improving the economy, health, and quality of life in our communities. Parks provided a refuge to me when I was growing up and both federal and local investment in parks can help our nation,” said Congressman Sires. ###
04.20.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 20, 2010 201-222-2828 Up to 144,316 New Jersey companies could be eligible for a tax break now Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires urged New Jersey small business owners to check their mail boxes in the coming days as the IRS has started mailing out more than 4 million postcards to small businesses across the country. The postcards are intended to help small businesses realize that they may qualify for a tax credit offered through the recently passed health care reform law beginning today. “Included in health care reform law was a huge tax break for small businesses owners,” stated Congressman Sires. “It is important for small businesses across New Jersey to know it’s out there and that they can start taking advantage of it immediately.” The tax credit is available to small businesses with 25 or fewer employees and an average wage of $50,000 or less that provide health insurance for their employees. Companies with 10 or fewer employees and an average wage of $25,000 or less get the maximum credit- 35% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit will rise to 50% in 2014. The tax credit is also available to small non-profits. For non-profits, the tax credit is worth up to 25% of what the employer is playing for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit for non-profits will rise to 35% in 2014. “This credit is going to make it easier for small businesses already offering insurance to afford it , while allowing more small businesses to begin providing health care coverage for their workers,” expressed Congressman Sires. “Lowering costs for small businesses in New Jersey is key in assisting our economy on the path to recovery.” For answers to the most frequently asked questions regarding the tax credit, please visit the IRS site at https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=220839,00.html. ###
04.16.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 16, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. -- On April 15, 2010, Congressman Sires proudly joined his colleagues in swiftly passing legislation by a vote of 289 to 112 to extend unemployment benefits and other programs. This legislation went directly to President Obama for his signature and will provide retroactive relief. Congress has passed a series of unemployment extensions, the most recent of which, H.R. 4851, the Continuing Extension Act of 2010, was passed unanimously by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2010. This legislation was then immediately sent to the Senate. Earlier today, the Senate passed an amended version of H.R. 4851 and the House moved quickly to a vote. This legislation will restore federal unemployment benefits to those who lost their benefits on April 5, 2010 and extend benefits through June 2, 2010. “I am proud that the House of Representatives acted immediately to vote on the Senate’s changes to the House bill to extend unemployment,” said Congressman Sires. “This extension is long overdue and I am hopeful that we will begin work immediately towards a long-term extension.” H.R. 4851 will also extend COBRA health insurance subsidies for the unemployed, ensure higher payments for physicians who treat Medicare patients, extend satellite TV transmission laws and extend the national flood insurance program through the end of May. The measure will also provide important retroactive relief by giving backpay to workers who were furloughed due to a lapse of the Highway Trust Fund. “These delay tactics caused 212,000 people to have their unemployment benefits severed,” said Sires. “Congress must work together in a bi-partisan and bi-cameral way to ensure that our constituents who are facing financial hardship continue to receive much needed unemployment benefits.” ###
04.15.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 15, 2010 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, the American Association of University Women (AAUW), a 501(c)(3) organization with more than 100,000 bipartisan members, released their scoring of Members of Congress on votes and co-sponsorship of the organization's priority legislation. “I am proud to be 1 of just 36 Members of Congress who has demonstrated full support of gender equity issues,” said Congressman Sires. “I recognize the importance of prioritizing women’s issues and the 111th Congress started off well with President Obama signing into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act.” AAUW was founded in 1881 and their mission is to advance equity for women and girls through advocacy, education, philanthropy, and research. Priorities of the AAUW include civil rights, economic security, and work-life balance. AAUW members have a distinguished history of providing assistance through awards, fellowships and grants to advance opportunities for women in the United States and around the world. AAUW scores Members of Congress on both their voting record and co-sponsorship record of legislation of importance. “Despite the many advancements that women have made, the average woman only earns 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man,” said Sires. “This is an unacceptable statistic and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that women are treated fairly and equitably.” ###
04.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in mourning the tragic death of Polish President Lech Kaczynski and 95 others, including the First Lady and other top Polish officials, who were killed in a plane crash in western Russia on April 10, 2010. “Two years ago I had the great honor of meeting President Kaczyniski on a trip to Poland, and was immediately impressed with his devotion to the Polish nation and people. I am deeply saddened by this horrific tragedy, and today, my colleagues and I express our sincerest sympathies to the people of Poland and the families of those who perished for their profound loss,” expressed Congressman Sires. H.Res. 1246 was unanimously passed by the House of Representatives in the aftermath of the plane crash in Russia last week that killed 96 people, including Poland’s President, First Lady, deputy foreign minister, dozens of members of Parliament, the chiefs of the army and navy, and the president of the national bank. President Kaczynski and his colleagues were traveling to Katyn, Russia for a memorial service to mark the 70th anniversary of the Soviet secret police killing of more than 20,000 Poles who were captured after the Soviet Union invaded Poland in 1939. “Over the course of history the Polish people have displayed their unwavering resilience and patriotism in the face of adversity. Undoubtedly they will overcome this terrible loss of so many key public officials, and our nation will stand in solidarity with the Polish people and government during this difficult time,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
04.14.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, DC-- Today, as Americans file their income taxes for 2009, Congressman Sires emphasized the 25 different tax cuts included in the Recovery Act that New Jerseyans were able to take advantage of this tax season, which were part of the more than $800 billion in tax cuts for working families and small businesses that Congress has passed since last year. “It is important that everyone is aware of the large amount of tax breaks included in the Recovery Act. The Making Work Pay tax credit alone provided 95% of all American workers with a tax cut- including 254,000 residents in the 13th District through a reduction in tax withholdings by their employer,” stated Congressman Sires. “Additionally, many taxpayers in the 13th District qualified for a variety of other generous tax breaks offered over the past year, including tax credits to assist in paying for college, a new house or car, and energy-efficiency improvements.” Specifically, individuals across the country could claim $400 for an individual and $800 for married couples filing jointly in their 2009 paychecks from the Making Work Pay tax credit, up to $2,500 in tax credits for eligible families and students to help pay for college, and up to $8,000 in a tax credit for first-time home homebuyers. Individuals were also eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for energy-efficient upgrades to their homes, as well as a vehicle sales tax deduction for new vehicles purchased last year. Furthermore, an expansion of the Earned Income tax Credit and Child Tax Credit for moderate income families was provided over the past year, and for those individuals who received unemployment insurance in 2009 they are exempt from paying taxes on the first $2,400 of such earnings. The IRS has postponed until May 11 the tax deadlines for counties designated as federal disaster areas, including Essex, Middlesex, and Union counties. For further information about filing for an extension on your income taxes visit www.irs.gov and to find out what tax cuts you may qualify for, view the White House online tax calculator at https://www.whitehouse.gov/recovery/tax-saving-tool ###
04.01.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 1, 2010 201-222-2828 Washignton, D.C.-- Today, April 1, 2010—Census Day—Congressman Sires urges residents to take 10 minutes to fill out and send back their 2010 Census forms if they haven’t already done so. The 2010 Census contains 10 questions and determines where millions of dollars in federal funding is distributed. “The census helps the federal government identify which communities need funding for services such as hospitals, schools and bridges,” said Congressman Sires. “I urge all of the residents in the 13th District to make sure their families are counted and that their voices are heard by sending back their census forms.” The U.S. Census Bureau mailed or hand-delivered about 134 million 2010 Census questionnaires to households in March. To date, just over half of those households have mailed back their census forms. Residents who have yet to return their form still have time to complete and mail back their 10-question census form. Beginning in May, households that have not returned their census forms may be visited by a census-taker, who will ask the questions on the form in person. Residents’ answers to the census questions are private and safe. By law, the U.S. Census Bureau cannot share respondents’ answers with anyone-- including other federal agencies, law enforcement entities, or housing authorities. Census data are used to determine the number of seats that each state holds in the House of Representatives. Additionally, census data directly affect how federal funding is distributed to state and local governments. These funds can go to programs and services that your community needs, including hospitals, schools, senior centers, bridges, tunnels and job training centers. “The census is simple, short, and safe, and a great way to participate in your government,” said Congressman Sires. “The census is one of the most direct ways people can make sure that their community’s needs are communicated.” ###
04.01.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 1, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.—On March 30, 2010, Congressman Sires hosted a roundtable to facilitate discussion of the safety, transparency and accountability of international adoption amongst congressional, governmental and non-governmental organizations. Stakeholders from across federal departments and agencies and national and international organizations gathered to discuss international adoption fraud and to exchange ideas for potential solutions. “Inter-country adoption has the potential to place needy children in loving homes, but weak institutions and the prospect of profit can lead to fraudulent acts,” said Congressman Sires. “Fraud exploits the children and families that adoption is designed to help and the United States must do its part in working to strengthen inter-country adoption practices.” Representatives from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the Department of State, the Department of Justice and the Center on Adoption Policy presented on various aspects of international adoption, such as prevention of fraud, prosecution of fraud, international adoption treaties, and domestic law. Specifically, the discussion and presentations concentrated on two proposals to help combat international adoption fraud: the possibility of accreditation for all adoption service providers in the United States as outlined in the Hague Convention, an international agreement on inter-country adoption, and how federal laws could better deter fraudulent practices and assist in the prosecution of illegal inter-country adoption. “I’m glad to hear of the high level of consensus at the meeting on the need to address adoption fraud,” said Congressman Sires. “I look forward to exploring legislation that would improve transparency and oversight in the inter-country adoption process.” ###
03.31.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 31, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.—On March 25, 2010, Congressman Sires joined Congressman Russ Carnahan (D-MO) in introducing H.R. 4959, the Global Conservation Act to enhance the ability of the United States government in addressing an international conservation crisis that threatens to impoverish developing countries, affect our health and security, and drive most of the world’s species to extinction. H.R. 4959 would establish a national strategy to integrate conservation efforts in U.S. foreign development assistance and improve U.S. policies that can undermine conservation efforts abroad. “There are many reasons why it is crucial that we work to protect our ecosystems for future generations,” said Congressman Sires. “Conservation issues are not only a threat to the environment, but also pose national security, developmental and economic problems.” Specifically, H.R. 4959 would introduce a plan to aggregate the collective international conservation actions of six federal agencies in one unified strategy. This strategy would be implemented by a Special Coordinator for Global Conservation in the Executive Branch. “Ecosystem loss is a global issue,” said Sires. “Conservation challenges span political and national borders and therefore we must make conservation an integrated part of our foreign policy and push for a global effort.” ###
03.26.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 25, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act by a vote of 220 to 207. This bill would make key improvements to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that was signed into law on March 23, 2010, as well as make increased investments to assist students and families pay for college. "Every American deserves access to quality health care and a quality education," stated Congressman Sires. "Today, Congress has been able to make good on this promise by improving health care reform and increasing aid to help all students achieve a college education." Specifically, this bill makes college more affordable by reforming the system of federal student loans to save taxpayers $61 billion. It will convert all new federal student lending to be originated through the stable, effective, and cost-efficient Direct Loan program.Â Also included are provisions to provide increase the maximum Pell Grant to $5,550 in 2010, additional funding for minority-serving institutions, and greater investments in a competitive grant program for community colleges. Additionally, this bill makes important improvements to health reform law. In particular, it makes health care even more affordable for the middle class by increasing federal subsidies to purchase insurance and lowers prescription drug costs for seniorsÂ by phasing out the Medicare Part D "donut hole" over time. Finally, it would also reduce the impact of the excise tax on high-cost plans that was included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, focusing on the most generous plans by delaying the effective date of the excise tax to 2018. "I am happy to see that this bill assists in making health care coverage even more affordable for American families," stated Congressman Sires. "I am particularly pleased that it scales back the reach of the excise tax on high-cost health plans that could have otherwise hit hard working American families." The President is expected to sign H.R. 4827 into law within the next few days. ###
03.25.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 25, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- On March 23, 2010, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced federal disaster aid for New Jersey to supplement state and local recovery efforts in response to a severe winter snowstorm in early February 2010. Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4899, the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act by a vote of 239 to 175. This bill would provide $5.1 billion in aid to help disaster-stricken communities rebuild their homes, infrastructure and local economies and protect them from future disasters. “Like many areas throughout the country, New Jersey was hit hard by severe weather this winter. I am pleased to hear that funding from FEMA will be available to help our state recover from these destructive storms,” said Congressman Sires. “Today’s passage of supplemental funding for disaster relief will not only provide New Jersey the funds it needs to overcome last month’s snowstorm, but it will also provide New Jersey with the support it needs to ensure that the state is prepared in the event of future disasters.” New Jersey estimates that the state will need $11.2 million in disaster assistance from the federal government. The disaster relief funding in H.R.4899 would allow FEMA to continue helping communities nationwide in responding to federally declared disasters. This bill would also fund the approximately $2 billion in FEMA projects that have been put on hold due to great need for emergency assistance, $12.6 million of which are in New Jersey. In addition to these projects, this funding would ready the nation for the possibility of spring flooding and other natural disasters. “With the snow in February coupled with the flooding in March, this legislation is critical to rebuilding the New Jersey communities impacted by these storms,” said Congressman Sires. H.R.4899 also would expand summer youth jobs opportunities, supporting an additional 300,000 summer jobs, and extend key Recovery Act provisions to make small business loans more affordable and available. ###
03.24.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 24, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, by a vote of 246 to 178 to create jobs and strengthen our economy. This bill would spur investment in local rebuilding projects and help our small businesses grow, hire and continue to fuel our economy. “This bill signifies an important step towards our top priority of getting Americans back to work through increased investments in our nation’s small businesses and infrastructure,” stated Congressman Sires. “In particular, I am pleased to see the bill includes an extension of Build America Bonds through 2013, which has been one of the biggest successes of the Recovery Act.” The bill would extend Build America Bonds to make it cheaper for state and local governments to finance the rebuilding of schools, sewers, hospitals and transit projects. This bill would also exclude 100% of capital gain income for stock in small business purchased from March 15, 2010 to January 1, 2011 to spur investment in small businesses and provide them with new capital to grow and hire more workers. Additionally, it would fix a tax shelter disclosure penalty that has had a disproportionate effect on small business and provide an increase in the tax deduction for start-up expenditures to encourage the formation of new small businesses. This legislation would also assist in saving American jobs by cracking down on foreign tax haven corporations that are taking advantage of the U.S. tax treaty network to dodge U.S. taxes and gain an advantage over American companies that play by the rules. This $20 billion measure is fully paid for over the span of a decade. ###
03.24.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 24, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.—This week, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing a series of veterans bills that work to fight homelessness, increase job training opportunities, and prevent foreclosures. In these challenging economic times, veterans are particularly vulnerable to hardship and these bills work to provide for veterans’ basic needs. All the bills passed through the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisanship support. “Today marks an important step toward securing our veterans the rights and services that they deserve, said Congressman Sires. “I can think of no better way to honor their bravery and sacrifice.” In particular, H.R. 4810, the End Veteran Homelessness Act of 2010 works to arm the VA with better tools to fight and end homelessness. This legislation would strengthen successful programs for homeless veterans through investments, require housing counselors to generate more housing opportunities at each VA medical center with housing services, strengthen permanent housing programs and focus on the needs of homeless women veterans and veterans with children. “It is unacceptable that so many of our brave veterans are homeless,” said Congressman Sires. “I am pleased that today we honor those men and women who have fought bravely for our country by giving the VA valuable resources to give our heroes homes.” This legislative package would also work to increase employment opportunities for veterans. H.R. 4592, the Energy Jobs for Veterans Act, would increase on-the-job training opportunities in the energy sector for veterans while H.R. 1879, the National Guard Employment Protection Act of 2010, would extend key reemployment rights to all of those called up for full-time National Guard duty. Additionally, these bills would prevent mortgage lenders from foreclosing on a veteran’s home after their service through H.R. 3976, the Helping Heroes Keep Their Homes Act of 2010 and ensure that payments for disabled veterans keep pace with the cost of living through H.R. 4667, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2010. ###
03.21.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 21, 2010 201-222-2828 This bill will provide health insurance coverage for 109,500 uninsured residents in the 13th District Washington D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing health care reform to provide quality affordable health care for Americans and control the long-term growth of health care costs. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that this legislation will expand health care coverage to 95 percent of all Americans, including an additional 32 million people, while reducing the deficit by $138 billion over the next 10 years. “With the needs of the 13th District in mind, I cast my vote in support of health care reform today,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill would expand health care coverage to the 23 percent of individuals currently residing in my district without health insurance and improve the health coverage of the 326,000 residents currently covered, as well as protect 900 families in the 13th District from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care.” This bill will immediately begin to hold insurance companies accountable by prohibiting them from dropping coverage when one gets sick and ban them from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. Additionally, beginning this year, young adults will be able to remain on their parents’ health policies until they turn 26 and Americans who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition will be able to buy affordable coverage through a temporary high-risk pool. In the coming months, seniors will also see relief from high prescription prices with a $250 rebate for Medicare beneficiaries who hit the donut hole and preventative services and immunizations will be free under Medicare right away. Furthermore, once signed into law, small businesses that provide coverage to their employees will to be eligible for a tax credit of up to 35 percent of premiums. In the subsequent years further requirements will be placed on insurers to prohibit them from denying or canceling coverage for any American based on their health status and bans will be placed on annual and life-time limits. Additionally, federal subsidies will be provided to low and middle class families to assist in purchasing health care; the Medicare Part D donut hole will be phased out over time; and a system of state-run health insurance exchanges will be created where individuals and small businesses can shop and compare prices and benefits of a variety of health care plans. Finally, along with various investments in prevention, wellness, and the health care workforce, the solvency of Medicare will be extended by at least nine years, which will assist in improving the program for the more than 72,000 beneficiaries in the 13th District alone. “Perhaps one of the most important aspects of health care reform is the relief it will bring to 14,300 small businesses in the 13th District during these tough economic times. No longer will these businesses need to choose between offering health coverage or laying off their workers; they will now be provided with the necessary resources to obtain affordable coverage through both new tax credits, as well as a new health insurance exchange established just for small employers to enable them to have the same leverage in the marketplace that larger companies enjoy today,” said Congressman Sires. ###
03.10.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 10, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in unanimously passing H.Res.1107, recognizing the 189th anniversary of the independence of Greece. This resolution recognizes the important role that Greece has played in the European region and in the community of nations since gaining its independence. “I am happy to extend my congratulations to the Greek people on the occasion of the 189th anniversary of their independence,” said Congressman Sires. “We also celebrate the contributions that our fellow Greek Americans have made to our communities across America.” Greece gained its independence from the Ottoman Empire on March 25, 1829, after eight years of war and conflict. “We will continue to celebrate Greek Independence and our friendship with Greece, which has been built on the shared ideals of freedom and democracy,” said Sires. ###
03.04.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 4, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – On March 2, 2010, the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced a 10-year plan to address declining revenue and mail volume. In light of Postmaster General John E. Potter’s outlined plan of cost cutting and an array of legislative and regulatory changes, Congressman Sires sent a letter to Subcommittee Chairman Stephen Lynch, inquiring about the status of H.R. 658, the Access to Postal Services Act of 2009. The letter, dated March 2, 2010, urges Chairman Lynch to continue to provide necessary services to constituents and encourages committee action. “It is essential to keep the USPS a part of American communities,” said Congressman Sires. “That is why I have introduced the Access to Postal Services Act—to work to provide communities the tools to protect their postal services.” Congressman Sires introduced H.R. 658, the Access to Postal Services Act in January, 2009 to give constituents access to the USPS’s process for closing post offices. The USPS began a review in 2009 examining 3,300 postal facilities for possible closure or consolidation. Currently, about 170 post offices across the country remain under review. While some post office closings may be justified, too often the public is left out of the decision-making process. H.R. 658 would provide a unified and more transparent closing process for postal facilities and would require USPS to notify both public officials and the customers of the affected post office at each step of the post office closing process. “As we rebuild the fiscal health of the USPS, it is incredibly important to ensure that those communities most vulnerable to change will continue to have access to postal services-- especially senior, rural and commuter populations,” said Sires. H.R. 658 has already garnered large bi-partisan support with 99 co-sponsors and is currently pending before the Subcommittee on Federal Workforce, Postal Service and the District of Columbia. ###
03.04.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 4, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues to provide relief to unemployed Americans. The bipartisan Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act is part of a larger Congressional agenda to create jobs and was passed by a vote of 217 to 201. “Making sure that my constituents can go back to work as quickly as possible is my number one priority,” said Congressman Sires. “This $15 billion legislation will create hundreds of thousands of new small businesses and construction jobs, stimulate private hiring, and help us rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.” The HIRE Act includes a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, to create some 300,000 jobs, and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. It also includes tax cuts to help small businesses invest, expand, and hire more workers, provisions to make it easier for states to take up infrastructure projects such as school construction and energy retrofitting. Lastly, the Highway Trust Fund will be extended which allows for billions of dollars in infrastructure development around the country. “Passage of the HIRE Act is just one step to strengthen our economy and more work must be done,” said Congressman Sires. “I am proud to join my colleagues in passing this legislation which is fully paid for and will not leave our future generations footing the bill.” ###
03.03.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 3, 2010 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Albio Sires hosted a briefing today with Olympic Gold Medalist Cullen Jones and panelists from the Center for Disease Control (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the USA Swimming Foundation to discuss the importance of drowning prevention. At the hearing, Jones shared his own stories about his love for swimming in addition to promoting water safety and the need for prevention methods. Congressman Sires expressed his concern on the startling statistics on drowning rates in America, especially in underserved communities. “An average of 9 people fatally drown each day in our country, and drowning is the second most common cause of death among children,” said Sires. “On top of that, these rates are considerably higher among minority children.” The panelists focused on raising awareness to the dangers of drowning and the need for prevention methods such as swimming lessons. Research conducted by the NIH showed a correlation between swimming lessons and the prevention of drowning. The panel also stressed the importance of pairing swimming lessons with other prevention methods, such as pool fencing and adult supervision for a comprehensive drowning prevention strategy. Ultimately, the panelists agreed that parents must be vigilant about protecting their children while swimming and use additional prevention measures. Last September, Congressman Sires led the unanimous passage of a resolution in the House of Representatives which recognized the persistently high rates of drowning fatalities among children. “While this resolution played a part in highlighting this issue, gatherings like this one are so important to increasing awareness and protecting the safety of our children,” said Sires. ###
03.03.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 3, 2010 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Sires attended a House Committee on Foreign Affairs hearing to discuss President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget request and the global initiatives at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). USAID Administrator Rajiv Shah testified at the hearing about the agency’s work and its role in U.S. foreign policy and national security. Administrator Shah was sworn in on December 16, 2009. “I was impressed with the knowledge and professional conduct of Administrator Shah at today’s hearing,” said Congressman Sires. “He has already shown excellent leadership in overseeing the United State’s response to the humanitarian crisis in Haiti and I am looking forward to seeing what he can accomplish at USAID.” At the hearing, Administrator Shah responded to several development concerns and touched on the Obama Administration’s proposal to overcome these challenges, including the Global Health Initiative (GHI). GHI, announced in May 2009, is a six year funding program to improve U.S. global health programs and their coordination. In response to the rollout of the GHI, Congressman Sires submitted a question to Administrator Shah regarding health innovations within USAID and the role of health technology development in GHI. In Congress, Congressman Sires has introduced legislation, H.R. 3560, the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act, to authorize a program at USAID that funds research initiatives to encourage the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. H.R. 3560 would help to address health needs around the world, reduce the threat of pandemic diseases, and improve stability in developing countries. “I was pleased to hear President Obama’s plan to invest in the Global Health Initiative to help partner countries improve their health care and it is my hope that USAID will continue to invest in innovation and development of new technologies that can change the landscape of global health,” stated the Congressman. ###
03.03.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 3, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. --- Congressman Sires spoke on the House Floor today in support of H.R. 4247, Keeping All Students Safe Act, a bill which establishes minimum safety standards for restraint and seclusion in schools. H.R. 4247 passed the House by a vote of 262 to 153. “One instance of harmful restraint of our children is one too many ---- I am proud to support our nation’s first national effort to address this problem.” said Congressman Sires. “Schools should be a setting where children can safely grow, develop, and thrive. This legislation was introduced in response to a recent investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office that found hundreds of allegations of students being abused as a result of misused restraint and seclusion. H.R. 4247 would set a standard similar to federal protections that are already set in other facilities which receive federal taxpayer dollars. Specifically, this bill would prohibit mechanical restraints, chemical restraints, and any intervention that would compromise the health and safety of our children. To increase oversight and transparency so that future abuse is prevented, states would be required to collect and report data annually to the Secretary of Education. “As a former teacher, I know that teachers and other school employees have the best interests of the children at heart,” said Sires. “This legislation will address the problem of harmful restraint and ensure the safety of both children and school professionals.” ###
02.26.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 26, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – On Thursday, February 25, 2010, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in unanimously passing emergency legislation to extend numerous programs that are expiring. This emergency legislation is critical to millions of families who would have benefitted from an extension of unemployment benefits. Additionally, this bill would have extended subsidies for laid-off workers to help pay health premiums through COBRA and also would have extended funding to support our roads. “Despite our bi-partisan efforts in the House, on the very same day, Senator Jim Bunning singlehandedly blocked the extension of important programs such as unemployment benefits, COBRA, and highway funding,” said Congressman Sires. On Sunday, February 28 at midnight, nearly 1.2 million unemployed workers will become ineligible for extended federal unemployment benefits and families depending upon COBRA will lose health coverage. Allowing the highway bill to expire is placing potentially 90,000 jobs at risk during the month of March. Additionally, up to 2 million families may lose access to broadcast television signals. “Allowing one Senator to leave thousands of American families at a financial risk during this economic downturn is outrageous,” said Congressman Sires. “Partisan games should not be played when the American people are struggling to get by every day--- Americans count on these benefits to pay their bills and feed their families.” ###
02.24.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 24, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives by passing H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, by a vote of 406 to 19 to restore competition and transparency to the health insurance market. The bill would amend the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945 by repealing the blanket antitrust exemption afforded to health insurance companies. Specifically, under the bill, health insurers would no longer be shielded from legal accountability for: price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves, sabotaging their competitors in order to gain monopoly power, and other such anti-competitive practices. Removing health insurance’s antitrust exemption would also give antitrust enforcers such as the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission the authority to investigate any evidence of possible collusion within the health insurance industry. “For far too long, the health insurance industry has played by a different set of rules. This bill would finally allow the federal government to protect honest competition against bad actors in the health insurance industry and in turn help promote better affordability, improved quality, increased innovation, and greater consumer choice,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
02.04.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 5, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Sires met with Dr. Chris Elias, the President of PATH to discuss how Congressional action can help promote the development of health products that are affordable, culturally appropriate, and easy to use in low-resource health systems. PATH is an international nonprofit organization that collaborates with public and private sectors through USAID’s HealthTech program to find solution to improve global health care. “Through the HealthTech program and PATH, companies and organization around the country are creating tools to dramatically improve the quality of life for people around the world. Right here in New Jersey, we have companies developing products that can change the way medicine is packaged and monitored to make it easier to preserve and distribute,” said Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires recently introduced H.R. 3560, the 21st Century Global Health Technology Act. This legislation would provide a small, but steady funding stream to USAID to fund research initiatives, like those organized by PATH. The bill authorizes a long-term program to continue the creation of health technologies for low-resource health systems. H.R. 3660 would help to address health needs around the world, reduce the threat of pandemic diseases, and improve stability in developing countries. “I am proud to introduce a bill that would not only improve global health care, but support skilled jobs for American workers, and enhance the United States’ competiveness in the increasingly technological global economy,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 3560 is currently under view by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. ###
02.04.2010	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 4, 2010 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires, with colleagues in the House and Senate, introduced legislation to incentivize the adoption of solar technology. The title of the bill is 10 Million Solar Roofs and 10 Million Gallons of Solar Water Heating Act of 2010. “New Jersey has taken a leadership role in solar energy technology --- we are second in the nation in producing solar energy and have the second highest number of solar installations,” said Congressman Sires. “As America faces challenges such as unemployment and rising energy costs, this legislation will create jobs, reduce electricity bills, and decrease harmful environmental pollutants.” The 10 Million Solar Roofs and 10 Million Gallons of Solar Water Heating Act of 2010 would provide rebates for the installation of solar photovoltaic and solar water heating systems to both individuals and businesses. Under this program, by 2019, 10 million rooftops across the nation would be outfitted with photovoltaic panels to increase the capacity of solar heated water systems by 10 million gallons. This bill is estimated to create 1,350,000 direct and indirect jobs over the next ten years. This bill has been referred to the appropriate Committees of jurisdiction. ###
01.28.2010	1/28/2010- New Jersey Transit Receives High-Speed Intercity Rail Grant AwardWashington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Federal Railroad Administration distributed a grant in the amount of $38,500,000 to New Jersey Transit (NJ TRANSIT). For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 28, 2010 (201) 222-2828 1/28/2010- New Jersey Transit Receives High-Speed Intercity Rail Grant Award1/28/2010- New Jersey Transit Receives High-Speed Intercity Rail 1/28/2010- New Jersey Transit Receives High-Speed Intercity Rail Grant AwardGrant Award Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the Federal Railroad Administration distributed a grant in the amount of $38,500,000 to New Jersey Transit (NJ TRANSIT). The award is a part of ARRA High-Speed Intercity Rail Grant Program. “As the Representative of an important transportation hub and a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am pleased that NJ TRANSIT received this grant which will enable them to increase reliability on our rail system,” said Congressman Sires. “The population of New Jersey is growing and this grant will allow Portal Bridge to be modernized and will ultimately ensure that we meet our region’s future transportation needs.” The High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program was established to make major capital investments to support intercity passenger and high-speed rail services. This project encompasses a final design plan for the replacement of the Portal Bridge, which began operating 100 years ago in 1910. Currently, NJ TRANSIT operates 393 trains and Amtrak operates 103 trains over the bridge each weekday. The bridge is an integral part of the Northeast Corridor which is one of our nation’s busiest rail corridors running from Boston, MA to Washington, DC. ###
01.14.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement this afternoon on the disastrous earthquake and ongoing relief efforts in Haiti: For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 14, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement this afternoon on the disastrous earthquake and ongoing relief efforts in Haiti: “Our prayers and condolences go out to the brave people of Haiti, especially to those whose lives have been struck by the earthquake,” said Congressman Sires. “We mourn with those who lost families, friends, businesses, and homes in this disaster.” Congressman Sires, along with his colleagues in the House of Representatives, urged Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Republican Leader John Boehner, to continue to send swift assistance to the Haitian people as they recover from this disaster and rebuild their homes, communities and lives. “My colleagues and I in Congress remain committed to assisting the people of Haiti as they confront the untold effects of this natural disaster,” said Congressman Sires. “We are pleased with the Obama Administration for taking the lead in coordinating the emergency efforts in aiding the people of Haiti” The State Department Operations Center has set up the following number for Americans seeking information about U.S. Citizens, living or traveling in Haiti: 1-888-407-4747. Due to heavy volume, callers may receive a recording. For inquires regarding relatives living and who have citizenship in Haiti, the American Red Cross is advising people to be patient and call repeatedly until lines are clear. Communications with Haiti are very difficult at this time. Additionally the International Committee of the Red Cross has set up a Family Links website which allows people in Haiti and the United States to register the names of relatives which whom they want to restore contact. It will incorporate responses to those queries as they become available. That website address is: https://www.icrc.org/ “Our hearts and thoughts are with the people in the United States who have family living in Haiti,” said Sires. “My Congressional office staff is ready to assist the members of the Haitian community in seeking information. Please contact my Jersey City office at 201-222-2828 or visit my website https://www.sires.house.gov/ for updated information on how to reach your loved ones in Haiti.” ###
01.06.2010	Washington, D.C.- On January 4, the U.S. Census Bureau began the largest civic outreach and awareness campaign in U.S. history to increase awareness and encourage participation in the nation’s once-a-decade population count. lmit 11.9999 Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 6, 2010 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- On January 4, the U.S. Census Bureau began the largest civic outreach and awareness campaign in U.S. history to increase awareness and encourage participation in the nation’s once-a-decade population count. As a part of this campaign, the Bureau launched the 2010 Census Portrait of America Road Tour, a cross-country interactive experience designed to educate and empower people to take part in the 2010 Census and motivate every American citizen to complete and mail back 10-question census forms when they arrive in mailboxes March 15-17. “This initiative will give people in our local communities—and across America—a wonderful opportunity to learn about the upcoming census count,” said Congressman Sires. “The census is not only fast, simple and safe, but many people don’t realize that their response to the census directly impacts the federal funding and services that their communities and neighborhoods will receive.” During the next four months, the Road Tour will stop and exhibit at more than 800 events nationwide where people will be able learn about the census, how it affects their local communities and share personal stories and pictures about why the census is important to them at interactive kiosks and exhibits. This constantly changing “portrait of America” will be captured during all Road Tour events and will live online at www.2010census.gov. The Road Tour regional vehicles are equipped with GPS technology that allows visitors to track the tour online as it happens and through daily social media postings on Twitter, Facebook, MySpace, Flickr and YouTube. The 2010 Census is a count of everyone living in the United States. By law, everyone in the United States, both citizens and noncitizens, must be counted every 10 years. Census data are used to determine the number of seats that each state holds in Congress and directly affect how more than $400 billion per year in federal funding is distributed to state and local governments. The 2010 Census is one of the shortest questionnaires in history and takes about 10 minutes to complete. By law, the Census Bureau cannot share respondents’ answers with anyone, including other federal agencies and law enforcement. “The framers of the Constitution believed firmly that a census was a necessary building block for a successful nation,” said Sires. “Today, the census still gives a voice to every person living in the United States and allows them to help the government to distribute resources to places that need it most." ###
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing comprehensive legislation to generate jobs and bring emergency relief to Americans hit by the recession... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 16, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing comprehensive legislation to generate jobs and bring emergency relief to Americans hit by the recession. The Jobs for Main Street Act, which passed by a vote of 217 to 212, will create or save jobs here at home with targeted investments for highways and transit, school renovation, hiring teachers, police, and firefighters, small business, job training and affordable housing, as well provide emergency relief for those struck hardest by the economic downturn. “The $48 billion invested through this legislation to rehabilitate our infrastructure by fixing our crumbling roads, bridges, schools, and housing is not only a positive way to create jobs, but a great way to rebuild our communities,” stated Congressman Sires. In addition to the investments in infrastructure, this legislation also includes $27 billion in funding for state and local governments to save or create jobs in education and local law enforcement, as well as funding for other hiring and training programs. The package also extends several Recovery Act initiatives to help America’s small businesses create jobs, including increased encouragement to banks to raise lending. The investments in local communities will be fully paid for by redirecting TARP funds. Finally, this bill builds on prior emergency relief efforts to assist the unemployed by extending for six months, to June 2010, emergency unemployment benefits and the federal subsidy for COBRA health insurance coverage. “Main Street is struggling, and this package will provide the necessary assistance to those families fighting to make ends meet, while affording them the opportunities for new employment,” expressed Congressman Sires. “I look forward to building on this progress in the new year to reduce the number of unemployed in New Jersey and across the nation.” ###
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting emergency funding for community colleges across the nation by co-sponsoring the Community College Emergency Stabilization Fund Act... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica DaughtreyDecember 16, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting emergency funding for community colleges across the nation by co-sponsoring the Community College Emergency Stabilization Fund Act. “Our nation’s current economic crisis has placed our community colleges in a dire situation,” said Congressman Sires. “While enrollment at community colleges has been increasing, state budgets for education funding are being slashed. Community colleges enroll nearly 50% of undergraduates in our country and it is imperative that we ensure access to these fine institutions.” The Community College Emergency Stabilization Fund Act will provide competitive grants to assist community colleges in maintaining or hiring additional faculty and staff. When awarding these grants, the Secretary of Education will take into account several factors. These include looking at the most recent monthly unemployment rate of the local area and the increased enrollment relative to the preceding academic year. “Community colleges provide quality education at an affordable price and are a vital component of our nation,” said Sires. “Educating our future workforce ensures that our nation emerges strongly and swiftly out of the current state of the economy. I am a proud supporter of this Act which will strengthen the community college system during a time that it is most in need.” ###
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires announced that he introduced legislation to support veterans who lack stable housing... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey December 2, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires announced that he introduced legislation to support veterans who lack stable housing. The bill, H.R. 4156, the Increasing Housing Opportunities for Veterans Act of 2009, would provide loans to developers of veterans housing to provide more units of permanent housing, authorize a study to determine if the Veterans Affairs Home Loan Guarantee program adequately serves young veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, and provide mortgage assistance to the families of Individual Ready Reservists and Inactive National Guard members who see a decline in income because of their deployment. Finally, Congressman Sires pays for this bill by using TARP funding repaid by the banks. “To date, non-profit developers have taken on the formidable task of building housing for our veterans. They have done a great job, but there are still too many vets who lack a stable and affordable place to live,” said Sires. “This bill will provide support to private developers to work alongside non-profit developers to make sure that there are enough units for veterans in need of housing.” The bill is fully paid for by the dividends and interest payments made by the banks who received TARP funding last year. In total the bill will support the development of 5,000 units of rental housing. It will also pay for mortgage assistance to Individual Ready Reservists or Inactive National Guard members who currently own a home. These individuals do not meet each month with their reserve units and may be the least prepared for activation and deployment. Their family may have a decrease in income due to the reservist being deployed which may cause the family to fall into debt. While current law prevents banks from foreclosing on these families during and shortly after deployment, nothing currently helps them avoid building huge debt while deployed. H.R. 4156 fills that gap. “Too many of our nation’s heroes lack stable and affordable permanent housing and I hope that this bill will remove this burden from their shoulders,” said Sires. “Whether they rent, are looking to buy a home, or own their own home, our veterans should not have to worry about losing a safe place to live; not with all that they have done for our country.” ###
11.19.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, by a vote of 243 to 183 to permanently reform the way Medicare pays physicians... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 19, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, by a vote of 243 to 183 to permanently reform the way Medicare pays physicians. This bill, introduced as companion legislation to the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962) that the House passed earlier this month, would repeal a 21 percent fee reduction scheduled for January 2010 and replace it with a stable system that ends the cycle of threats of ever-larger fee cuts followed by short-term patches. “Six times since 2002, Congress has had to step in to prevent deep reductions in physicians’ pay calculated by the flawed Sustainable Growth Rate formula,” expressed Congressman Sires. “This bill creates a sustainable solution for Medicare payments to physicians in order to prevent profound decreases in physicians’ pay in the future that could jeopardize seniors’ access to their doctors.” Specifically, H.R. 3961 would replace the pending 21 percent fee cut with an update for 2010 based on the Medicare economic index while a new payment system is being put in place. This bill would also provide an extra growth allowance for primary care services to promote access to primary care practitioners in Medicare, as well as encourage the formation of Accountable Care Organizations which would incentivize physicians to take responsibility for improving quality and reducing costs. Furthermore, this legislation would end a budget gimmick that artificially reduces the deficit by assuming physician payments will be cut by 40 percent over the next several years even though Congress has consistently intervened to prevent those cuts from occurring “This legislation is supported by a wide range of organizations representing patients, doctors and other providers- including the American Medical Association, AARP, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Surgeons, and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. Combined with the Affordable Health Care for America Act it will improve Medicare and seniors’ access to care,” stated Congressman Sires. H.R. 3961 is now under review in the Senate. ###
11.10.2009	Washington, D.C.- U.S. Rep. Albio Sires is participating in a Congressional Delegation which will amongst other official duties, honor United States Veterans in Normandy France on Veteran’s Day, November 11, 2009... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 10, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- U.S. Rep. Albio Sires is participating in a Congressional Delegation which will amongst other official duties, honor United States Veterans in Normandy France on Veteran’s Day, November 11, 2009. He will be traveling with U.S. Rep. John Tanner, President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The purpose of the trip is to discuss issues affecting NATO, in particular Afghanistan. As part of our national day of remembrance, Sires will attend a wreath laying ceremony at a Veteran’s Day program at the U.S. military cemetery in Normandy, France, the site of an Allied Invasion during WWII. Sires will also meet with U.S. military leaders and visit Omaha Beach and the U.S. Federal Monument at Pointe du Hoc in France. “As we honor all Veterans on Veteran’s Day, I urge Americans to take a moment to reflect on the sacrifices the men and women of the armed forces have given to our country to preserve liberties and freedoms we have today. I have the honor and privilege of visiting our national cemetery in Normandy, France, where so many Americans gave the supreme sacrifice to protect our way of life as we know it today.” Sires added, “The importance of this trip is to continue our effort to protect our national security that has been so valiantly defended by our veterans and the current men and women in the armed forces.” Congressman Sires is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere (Vice Chair) and Subcommittee on Europe.
11.08.2009	Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act by a vote of 220 to 215... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 7, 2009 201-222-2828 This bill would provide health insurance coverage for 115,000 uninsured residents in the 13th District Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act by a vote of 220 to 215. This bill would provide quality affordable health care for Americans and control the increasing growth in health care costs. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that this legislation would provide health coverage to 96 percent of Americans, while reducing the deficit by $129 billion over the next 10 years. “It was with the needs of the 13th District in mind that I cast my vote in support of health care reform today,” expressed Congressman Sires. “This bill would expand health care coverage to the 23 percent of individuals currently residing in my district without health insurance, as well as improve the health coverage of the 326,000 residents presently covered by their employers.” Specifically, H.R. 3962 would improve our health insurance system by imposing new requirements on health insurers, including ending discrimination for pre-existing conditions; eliminating the practice of rescission; prohibiting co-pays for preventive and wellness care; placing annual caps on out-of-pocket costs for consumers; and removing yearly or lifetime costs caps on what insurers cover. This bill would also promote shared responsibility among individuals, employers and government to ensure that all Americans have affordable coverage of essential health benefits. Additionally, this legislation would make critical investments in our public health infrastructure, the health workforce, and wellness prevention efforts. In order to bring competition and choice into the insurance market, H.R. 3962 would create a Health Insurance Exchange as a new marketplace for individuals and small employers to comparison shop among private and public plans, including the choice of a new public health insurance option. Financed by its own premiums, the public option would bring a new choice to many areas of the country where marketplaces are dominated by just one or two private insurers. To ensure that coverage is affordable for all Americans, affordability credits would be provided to qualified individuals to purchase insurance in the Exchange; tax credits of up to 50 percent would be available for certain small businesses to acquire insurance; and Medicaid would be expanded to cover individuals with incomes up to 150 percent of the federal poverty level. Furthermore, this bill would improve and strengthen Medicare by filling the donut hole over time in the Part D drug program; eliminating cost-sharing for preventive services; improving the low-income subsidy programs within Medicare; increasing access to primary care providers; improving payment accuracy; encouraging delivery system reforms; and extending the solvency of the Medicare Trust fund. “One of the more important aspects of this historic legislation, endorsed by AARP, is the security it provides for our nation's seniors. I am particularly proud that this bill will save 4,700 seniors in my district alone thousands of dollars a year by closing the prescription drug donut hole in Medicare,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
11.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sires spoke in favor of H.R. 2868, the Chemical and Water Security Act of 2009, and voted for the bill today, which passed the house by a vote of 230 to 193... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 6, 2009 201-222-2828 Congressman Sires Supports Bill to Increase Security at High Risk Chemical Plants Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sires spoke in favor of H.R. 2868, the Chemical and Water Security Act of 2009, and voted for the bill today, which passed the house by a vote of 230 to 193. House Committees on Homeland Security, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Energy and Water worked to draft the comprehensive legislation that reauthorizes and strengthens the Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards. It also expands the current security efforts by giving the Environmental Protection Agency the authority to create a risk-based program for the country’s drinking water and wastewater facilities. “This legislation improves our security by requiring facilities that use dangerous chemicals to examine using inherently safer technologies when possible. In some cases, the implementation of safer technologies would be required,” said Sires. He added, “On the morning of September 11th, we all witnessed the destructive capabilities of terrorism. I believe we must do everything in our power to address the known threats, so we can reduce our risks and prevent future catastrophes. The safety of our communities depends on the security measures taken at these facilities.” The legislation allows improves compliance by allowing citizens to bring suit against the Secretary of Homeland Security for failure to perform duties such as promulgating regulations, and against federal facilities for failure to comply with orders issued by the Department of Homeland Security. “Increased security measures should not be viewed as a burden, but as an opportunity to reduce threats by promoting best practices. This legislation is skillfully designed to increase our security without jeopardizing facility services,” added Sires. The Chemical and Water Security Act now awaits consideration in the Senate. ###
11.05.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sires joined his colleagues today in passing a bill to stimulate our economy and extend unemployment benefits... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 5, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. - Congressman Sires joined his colleagues today in passing a bill to stimulate our economy and extend unemployment benefits. H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009, was passed overwhelmingly by the House by a vote of 403 to 12. “This legislation will extend unemployment insurance by up to 14 additional weeks for the unemployed,” said Congressman Sires. “Most importantly, this bill protects those who are suffering the most --- states like New Jersey that have unemployment rates higher than 8.5 percent, will now give their constituents 20 weeks of unemployment benefits.” In addition to extending unemployment benefits, H.R. 3548 will extend the $8,000 homebuyer tax credit to first-time homebuyers through June 30, 2010 and offer a $6,500 credit to existing homeowners who have lived in their primary residence for at least five consecutive years. Lastly, this legislation will make a change to the tax treatment of Net Operating Losses (NOL), to help companies who incurred losses due to the economy. This will allow small businesses with $15 million or less in average annual gross receipts in the past three years to carry back NOLs from 2008 and 2009 up to five years instead of two years. For more information, please contact www.irs.gov. “Together these changes will spur the economy by supporting our workers, generating home-buying, and helping struggling local businesses,” explained Congressman Sires. ###
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the Conference Report for H.R. 2996, the fiscal year 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 247 to 178... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 29, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Funding included for key programs to improve New Jersey’s environmental infrastructure Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the Conference Report for H.R. 2996, the fiscal year 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 247 to 178. This bill makes a number of key investments in clean air grants and clean drinking water programs, such as $1.38 billion for low-interest loans to help local communities improve their drinking water systems, $10 million for new grants to encourage local communities to find ways to cut their greenhouse gas emissions, and $605 million to clean up toxic waste sites. “These funds are critical to improving environmental infrastructure in New Jersey’s 13th District,” said Congressman Sires. “Several of these programs were severely underfunded in the last administration, and this year’s increased funding will allow New Jersey to address aging infrastructure to improve water and air quality in the state.” The bill also includes funding for other programs that are significant to New Jersey. H.R. 2996 provides $157 million for sewer and water grants to local communities – a program that is highly valued by many communities in New Jersey. Additionally, funding was included for the evaluation and cleanup of “brownfields,” which provides $100 million to turn former industrial and commercial sites from problem properties to productive community use. A Continuing Resolution (CR) was attached to H.R. 2996 in order to continue funding for government operations through December 18, 2009. ###
10.21.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined an overwhelming majority of his colleagues in passing S.1793, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act, by a vote of 408 to 9... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 21, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined an overwhelming majority of his colleagues in passing S.1793, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act, by a vote of 408 to 9. This bill would reauthorize the Ryan White Program for the next four years, which would have otherwise expired at the end of the month. “Over the past two decades the Ryan White Program has proven to be a critical program, serving people with HIV and AIDS in New Jersey. Today, the program provides care, treatment and support services to nearly half a million people nationwide- many of which are low-income- whom without this critical safety net, would not receive the care and treatment they need and deserve,” stated Congressman Sires. Specifically, this bill would increase the authorization level for each part of the Ryan White program by five percent a year for the next four years, including such programs as the Comprehensive Care Program, Early Intervention Program, and Minority AIDS Initiative. The Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act, which created the Ryan White Program, was initially enacted in August 1990 and has been reauthorized three times since, most recently in 2006. “In coordination with modern medical advancements, the extension of the Ryan White Program will make it possible for the approximately 1.1 million individuals living with HIV/AIDS continue to live a long and active life,” expressed Congressman Sires. S. 1793 is now awaiting the President’s signature to become law. ###
10.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the Conference Report on H.R. 2892, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 15, 2009 201-222-2828 Key Funding to Keep New Jersey Safe Included in Homeland Security Appropriations Bill Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the Conference Report on H.R. 2892, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 307 to 114. This bill provides funding for a number of critical grant programs that support First Responders and increase security in the United States: $887 million for Urban Area Grants, $300 million for Transit Grants, $300 million for Port Security Grants, $810 million for Fire Grants and $60 million for Emergency Operations Centers. “This bill has over $4 billion for Homeland Security grants, and these grants are critical to New Jersey’s 13th District,” said Congressman Sires. “This funding will go a long way toward improving security in the district. Through these grants, we ensure that our first responders are adequately prepared to offer us the best protection possible against a range of threats,” added Congressman Sires. Funding for H.R. 2892 totals $42.776 billion and also includes $7.7 billion in needed funding for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Nearly $1 billion will go towards purchasing and installing explosive detection systems at airports, $110.5 million for surface transportation security, and $122.8 million for TSA to meet the 100-percent air cargo security screening mandates. The bill also includes $8.8 billion to fund our Coast Guard and $103.4 million for chemical facility security. The Conference Report now awaits consideration by the Senate.
10.08.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 2997, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration Appropriations Conference Report by a vote of 263 to 162... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 7, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding included for key women’s and children’s nutrition programs Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 2997, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration Appropriations Conference Report by a vote of 263 to 162. The conference report provides funding for the Department of Agriculture and focuses on several key areas, such as protecting public health, bolstering food nutrition programs, aiding low income households, and conserving our natural resources. “New Jersey will have access to new funding in this bill through the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, which was expanded to include New Jersey,” said Congressman Sires. “The $180 million included in the bill is critical to providing nutritious food to low-income women, infants, children and elderly during this period of economic stress and will help bring relief to families struggling with rising food costs.” Funding for H.R. 2997 includes more than $7.25 billion in needed funding for the WIC program, which helps mothers and their children eat nutritious meals. The bill also features $162 million for program improvements including fruit and vegetable vouchers and expanding nutrition education programs for mothers. To ensure the safety of the food Americans put on their table, the bill also invests in food inspections of the U.S. meat and poultry supply and enhances FDA oversight of the safety of domestic and imported food and medical products. # # #
10.06.2009	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 6, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding will allow for the rehabilitation and construction of parks and recreation facilities in urban areas and programs for at-risk youth Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Urban Revitalization and Livable Communities Act. The bill will provide federal grants to rehabilitate and construct urban parks and recreational areas and to continue investment in health, family and youth programs. “As a former mayor of West New York, I have seen firsthand the benefits of improving parks and recreational infrastructure,” said Congressman Sires. “These investments in our community help our cities flourish, provide positive activities for our youth, and give our kids and families healthy and safe places to be outside.” This legislation invests in the health and well-being of urban communities across the nation by creating and improving recreational areas, which promote economic recovery, environmental protection, and increased green spaces. The bill focuses on projects in urban areas that provide more places for physical activity, improve the safety and condition of recreational areas, use environmental friendly products, and are close to public transportation, schools or public housing. These projects directly help revitalize the community and support businesses in the area. “When we’re proud of where we live, it not only deepens our sense of community and strengthens our neighborhoods, but it also helps boost local businesses in the area,” said Congressman Sires. “In these difficult economic times, these are benefits to our communities that should not be overlooked.” Twenty-two members of the House of Representatives have joined Congressman Sires as well as the National Recreation and Park Association in supporting this legislation. “The National Recreation and Park Association supports Rep. Sires’ efforts to comprehensively address the needs of urban communities. His legislation would provide critically needed assistance to youth and families to improve health, gain access to nature and the outdoors, and revitalize America’s urban areas,” said Barbara Tulipane, Executive Director of the National Recreation and Park Association. # # #
10.01.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing the conference report for H.R. 3183, the fiscal year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, by a vote of 308 to 114... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 1, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing the conference report for H.R. 3183, the fiscal year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, by a vote of 308 to 114. This bill makes a number of key investments in clean energy, energy independence, environmental cleanup, nuclear non-proliferation, and water infrastructure totaling $33.5 billion in funding. “I am particularly pleased by the $2.2 billion in investments for energy efficiency and renewable energy included in this bill. This funding will increase investments in technologies that use energy more effectively and produce clean, inexpensive energy from domestic sources which will assist in making America a leader in clean energy and less dependant on foreign oil,” stated Congressman Sires. In addition, H.R. 3183 provides $5.4 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers to address the nation’s water resource investment needs, including the deepening of the New York and New Jersey Harbor. The bill also includes $172 million for electricity delivery and energy reliability to modernize and secure the nation’s electricity grid, as well as $2.1 billion towards nuclear nonproliferation to protect the American people by reducing the risk that more countries will acquire nuclear weapons and improve our ability to top nuclear and radiological materials and weapons from being smuggled into the United States. Furthermore, $5.6 billion would be provided for environmental clean-up to mitigate the environmental impacts of over a half-century of national security and civilian nuclear activity.
09.25.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the federal government through October 31, 2009 by a vote of 217 to 190... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 25, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the federal government through October 31, 2009 by a vote of 217 to 190. This continuing resolution will ensure that all necessary and vital functions of the government may continue uninterrupted until Congress completes its work on the annual appropriations bills. “We must ensure that the vital parts of the government can continue to function,” said Congressman Sires. “It is an extremely busy legislative season for Congress with such hugely important issues such as health care and unemployment taking center stage.” The CR will keep the government running at fiscal year 2009 levels for 30 days. Additionally, it will provide an increase in funding for veterans health care and extend authorizations for a handful of expiring programs such as child nutrition and housing. This CR is attached to the conference report on H.R. 2918, the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, a non-controversial, bipartisan bill. “The passage of this legislation will expedite the process of ensuring that the government is funded,” said Sires. “We need to have the capability to focus on issues that affect citizens across the United States.” ###
09.24.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $3,000,000 for the third phase of the Hoboken Ferry Terminal Rehabilitation project... FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 24, 2009 CONTACT:Menendez Press Office (202) 224-4744Sires Press Office (201) 222-2828 These federal funds will continue rehabilitation of historic Hoboken landmark WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded $3,000,000 for the third phase of the Hoboken Ferry Terminal Rehabilitation project. This federal funding was awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Ferryboat Discretionary program. Phase III of the Hoboken Terminal Ferry Rehabilitation consists of restoring the Terminal’s original ferry slips, allowing the current operation to move from the temporary docking facility on barges on the Terminal’s south side. “This funding will not only further enhance the historic Hoboken Ferry Terminal, it will promote increased use of mass-transit, curbing carbon emissions and reducing traffic,” said Senator Menendez. “This shovel-ready project will create over 200 jobs and will help in the completion of a long-awaited transportation improvement that became so necessary after the terror attacks in 2001 brought increased ridership to and from Manhattan.” “The Hoboken Ferry Terminal is a critical transportation link for the region, connecting thousands of passengers from buses, light rail and trains, because of this funding the area will benefit from improved transportation options and increased job opportunities,” said Congressman Sires. “Given the ferry’s history in emergency situations – such as rescuing passengers when Flight 1549 went down in the Hudson and providing service after the 9/11 attacks – I am especially pleased that it was selected to receive this funding.” The Hoboken Terminal is a multi-modal transportation hub which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, serving over 3.5 million riders. The Terminal connects many NJ TRANSIT commuter rail lines, buses, Hudson Bergen Light Rail, PATH, Hudson River Waterfront Walkway and ferry service. This rehabilitation effort will replace the temporary docking facility that has been in use since the terminal’s ferry slips were placed back in service in 1989. Ferry boat handling capacity will increase by 25%, increasing travel capacity and travel options for area residents and commuters alike. This federal funding will allow NJ Transit and the Port Authority of NY and NJ to complete Phase III of this project. ###
09.23.2009	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that communities across the state will receive over $16 million from the Recovery Act’s Community Development Block Grant Program... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 23, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding will allow communities to create jobs and revitalize neighborhoods Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that communities across the state will receive over $16 million from the Recovery Act’s Community Development Block Grant Program. This funding enables state and local governments to undertake a wide range of activities intended to create suitable living environments, provide affordable housing and create economic opportunities. “The Community Development Block Grant program is a great tool that communities can use to improve the lives of their residents,” said Sires. “Even with an improving economy, our communities can use this funding to strengthen the job and housing markets, which still are struggling.” Locally, Essex County will receive $1,647,529; Hudson County will receive $1,003,809, and Middlesex County will receive $523,531. Some towns in the 13th district also qualified for direct funding. Those include Jersey City, which will receive $1,749,827; Newark, which will receive $2,310,137; and Woodbridge, which will receive $177,552. “This funding, which was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, represents the final payment of Community Development Block Grant funding. All $1 billion appropriated by Congress has now been distributed.” explained Sires. ###
09.23.2009	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that the Bayonne Housing Authority, Elizabeth Housing Authority, and Housing Authority of Jersey City will receive funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 23, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding will allow public housing authorities to improve energy efficiency, upgrade public housing and create jobs Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that the Bayonne Housing Authority, Elizabeth Housing Authority, and Housing Authority of Jersey City will receive funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The funding can be used to build or renovate affordable rental apartments and make existing public housing units more energy efficient. “I have fought for adequate capital funding for Public Housing Authorities since I came to Congress. For too long we have underfunded them, leaving public housing buildings to deteriorate,” said Sires. “I am glad that the Recovery Act included an investment in capital structures and energy efficiency.” Bayonne Housing Authority will receive $254,500; Elizabeth Housing Authority will receive $1,888,000; and the Housing Authority of Jersey City will receive $1,469,266. These funds were awarded competitively to housing authorities, based on need and strength of application. “Not only will these funds help housing authorities to update existing, and build new, affordable housing,” said Sires, “it will help create jobs for hard working New Jerseyans when jobs are very much needed.” ###
09.23.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced that the City of Elizabeth will receive more than $1.8 million through the Port Security Grant program... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 23, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced that the City of Elizabeth will receive more than $1.8 million through the Port Security Grant program. The funding will go toward the port region’s heavy rescue unit as well as toward maritime support unit and equipment upgrades. “The vitality of our port region is crucial to the safety of our district—and our entire region,” said Congressman Sires. “This grant will give the city of Elizabeth some financial means to enhance the port’s capabilities.” DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano announced Elizabeth’s allocation as part of more than $380 million in grants—funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA)—to pay for fire station construction and port and transit security initiatives nationwide. In awarding ARRA funds, DHS prioritizes shovel-ready projects that infuse resources into local economies quickly while meeting critical security needs. DHS has obligated more than 30 percent of its ARRA funds to date, and is on track to obligate more than 50 percent by the end of September 2009. ARRA, signed into law by President Obama on February 19, committed more than $3 billion for homeland security projects through DHS and the General Services Administration—including $610 million to FEMA for grants to local communities across the country. ###
09.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the extension of unemployment benefits, which passed the House by a vote of 331 - 83... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 22, 2009 201-222-2828 Legislation will extend unemployment benefits for thousands in NJ-13 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported the extension of unemployment benefits, which passed the House by a vote of 331 - 83. H.R. 3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009, will continue unemployment benefits for an additional 13 weeks for workers in states where the overall unemployment rate averages 8.5% or more over the last three months. “Last month, unemployment rose to 9.7 percent in New Jersey, and more than 25,000 unemployed workers began to exhaust their unemployment benefits in Hudson, Essex, Middlesex, and Union counties” said Sires. “With roughly one job opening for every five job seekers, this legislation is critical to bridge the gap for these unemployed workers as the economy begins to recover and more jobs are created.” In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congress extended the termination date of employment benefits through the end of the year along with other provisions to help stimulate the economy, create jobs, and help the unemployed. However, the National Employment Law Project estimates over half a million people will exhaust their unemployment benefits by the end of September and nearly 1.5 million will run out by the end of the year. “The House moved quickly to get this legislation to the floor to help hardworking Americans who are struggling to find employment. American workers are the backbone of our economy, and we must work to support them in a difficult job market. I was proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation and to vote for the bill, and I encourage the Senate to move this legislation quickly to help our workers in New Jersey and across the country.” H.R. 3548 now awaits Senate action. ###
09.21.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that Newark will receive two separate grants from the U.S. Department of Justice to improve safety for Newark’s residents... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 21, 2009 201-222-2828 Newark to receive 2 grants from the Department of Justice Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced that Newark will receive two separate grants from the U.S. Department of Justice to improve safety for Newark’s residents. The first grant, worth $500,000 will allow Newark to support formerly incarcerated people as they integrate into the community, the economy, and their families. Congressman Sires helped to secure funding for the “Returning Offender Initiative”. The second grant, worth $44,698, is funded through the Fiscal Year 2009 Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) Program. These funds will be used to train law enforcement professionals to deliver a life-skills, gang awareness, and violence-avoidance curriculum to Newark’s students. “Together these grants will help law enforcement officials in Newark prevent future crime,”said Sires. “Programs that help transition formerly incarcerated individuals back into society offer hope to people who might be down on their luck and at-risk of future criminal activity. On the other hand, programs that educate students against gangs are great tools to stop a life of crime and violence before it begins.” said Sires. The Returning Offender Initiative will connect employers with quality workers, help individuals with substance abuse and mental health issues find treatment, and get families the support that they need to welcome their family member back home after prison. The G.R.E.A.T. Program focuses on preventing crime by reaching out to students in elementary and middle school, and their families to teach them skills to avoid gang pressure and youth violence “Newark’s receipt of these grants is testament to its efforts to stop crime and I am proud to support their efforts,” Sires added. ###
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009 by a vote of 253 - 171... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 16, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009 by a vote of 253 - 171. This bill provides affordable, high-quality Federal student loans for all families, prepares students for 21st century jobs and ensures that the next generation of children enter kindergarten with the skills they need to succeed in school. “This legislation will open the door for more children in New Jersey—and across the nation—to achieve the dream of a college education,” said Congressman Sires. “By changing the way our student loan programs are structured, this bill will finally break down a major barrier to college education: affordability.” Over the next 10 years, H.R. 3221 will invest more than $796.5 million in New Jersey and $127.6 million in the 13th district to increase the maximum Pell Grant scholarship and strengthen and expand the Perkins Loan program. This bill will increase funding for the College Access Challenge Grant program and bolster college access and completion support programs for students, resulting in at least $2.4 million a year for the next five years in New Jersey. In order to ensure that New Jersey’s students and workers have the skills and resources necessary for 21st century jobs, H.R. 3221 encourages instructive partnerships between community colleges, businesses, job training and adult education programs. Additionally, New Jersey will receive nearly $69.1 million to finance projects to ensure that community college students can learn in state-of-the-art facilities. This legislation also aims to provide more children from low-income families in New Jersey with the skills necessary to succeed in kindergarten by reforming state standards and practices for early learning programs. Additionally, New Jersey will receive more than $72.9 million to provide school districts with school modernization and improved learning environments. “As a former teacher, I know how crucial education is to the success of New Jersey,” said Congressman Sires. “This legislation will provide New Jersey with the financial and structural tools to help improve access to college. Enabling our students to graduate with a better education and less debt ensures that the American workforce remains highly skilled, competitive and ready to rebuild the fiscal health of our state and country.” ###
09.17.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Albio Sires and Rep. Michael E. McMahon, members of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, urged the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (“Port Authority”) to quickly resolve the Bayonne Bridge height restriction issue... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey, 201-222-2828 (Sires) September 17, 2009 Lauren Amendolara, 202-215-9605 (McMahon) Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Albio Sires and Rep. Michael E. McMahon, members of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, urged the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (“Port Authority”) to quickly resolve the Bayonne Bridge height restriction issue. This week the Port Authority released the results of a study completed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, which found the Bayonne Bridge’s height will pose a serious obstacle for the New York-New Jersey Port to handle the newest and largest commercial ships in the coming decades. With the scheduled expansion of the Panama Canal set to be completed in 2014, the number of large commercial shipping vessels is set to grow significantly in the region; however, the current height of the bridge will make it impossible for these ships to access the port. The report examined several potential solutions, including a tunnel linking Bayonne and Staten Island or increasing the bridge height to 215 feet by either raising the bridge or constructing a new bridge. “This issue needs to be addressed now,” said Rep. McMahon. “If the Bayonne Bridge is not raised, larger ships will not be able to use our port, seriously limiting economic growth in New York harbor. We need to find a solution to this problem which also focuses on increasing mass transit connections between Staten Island and Bayonne, and extends the light rail line. Our port is one of the most active in the country and is critical to the future of good quality jobs in my district. If we do not immediately start addressing the Bayonne Bridge height limitation, our local economy will undoubtedly suffer.” The Army Corps’ report also recommended further planning and environmental analyses to determine a preferred project alternative. The Port Authority authorized $10 million last month to begin this phase of the project. The study should be completed in 2010. “More than 269,990 jobs are generated by activity in the Port of New York and New Jersey,” said Rep. Sires. “We must act now to secure these jobs and maintain the port’s status as one of the largest and most productive port complexes in the nation. This report combined with the Port Authority’s recent announcement to advance an alternatives study is critical to moving the project forward and keeping the port competitive. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to advocate for a solution to the Bayonne Bridge height restriction.” ###
09.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires demanded further action be taken by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to improve safety and limit the noise nuisance of aircraft over the Hudson River... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 16, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires demanded further action be taken by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to improve safety and limit the noise nuisance of aircraft over the Hudson River. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Sires participated in the Subcommittee on Aviation’s hearing to discuss the recent aircraft tragedy on the Hudson River. “The FAA has taken steps to improve safety in the Hudson River Corridor, such as dividing the airspace into separate corridors, but they are not doing enough for the safety of residents in Hudson County,” said Congressman Sires. “If this accident had occurred over a school or a residential area, there could have been devastating damage and loss of life.” The Committee questioned witnesses from the FAA, the National Transportation Safety Board, and other transportation associations. The witnesses focused on the recently released New York Airspace Task Force recommendations for the Hudson River, including dividing the airspace into distinct corridors to separate aircraft flying over the river from those operating local helicopters. The Task Force also included a recommendation that helicopters over the Hudson River fly below 1,000 feet. The testimony of the witnesses did not include information on how aircraft below 1,000 feet would be regulated or whether the large number of aircraft over the Hudson River would be limited. “The FAA stated that people have an unlimited right to fly through this corridor. What about the rights of people on the ground? Who is watching out for their safety and quality of life? Having helicopters fly at lower altitudes creates a constant noise nuisance and safety issues for those in New Jersey living along the Hudson River. With 20,000 helicopters and other aircraft flying over the area, the FAA needs to do more to regulate this traffic – they must increase training for pilots, improve technology on the aircraft, and most importantly, limit the number of aircraft, in particular helicopters over the Hudson River. I will continue to work with FAA to ensure these actions move forward for the safety of residents in the 13th District.” ###
09.16.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide funding for approximately $35 million in grants through the FY 2009 Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grant Program... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 15, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide funding for approximately $35 million in grants through the FY 2009 Fire Prevention and Safety (FP&S) Grant Program. Fire departments and national, regional, state, and local organizations are eligible to apply. Tribal organizations, nonprofit organization, and Housing Authorities are also eligible. The FP&S Program is a component of the Department’s Assistance to Firefighter Grant Program (AFG), whose purpose is to enhance the safety of the public and firefighters with respect to fire and fire-related hazards. FP&S grants fund efforts to mitigate incidences of deaths and injuries caused by fire and fire-related hazards, with special attention paid to high-risk target groups such as children, adults over 65, and firefighters. In addition, these grants providing support to Firefighter Safety Research and Development Activities. These funds are available to organizations such as universities and public health institutions, but fire departments are not eligible for this type of funding. The application period for this program will open Monday, September 21, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. EDT and will close on October 23, 2009 at 5:00 p.m. EDT. For further information regarding the FP&S Program, as well as application materials, please visit www.firegrantsupport.com . For further information on the grant program, please contact the FP&S Grants Home at 1-800-274-0960 or by email at firegrants@dhs.gov.
09.14.2009	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a resolution, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, to recognize the persistently high rates of drowning fatalities among children and the importance of swimming education... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 14, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a resolution, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, to recognize the persistently high rates of drowning fatalities among children and the importance of swimming education. “Roughly 3,500 people fatally drown each year in the United States – that is about 10 people a day - and more than 25 percent of these victims are children 14 and under. In fact, drowning is the second most common cause of accidental death among children. Fatal drowning rates are 2 to 3 times higher among minority children, and these statistics are shameful,” explained Congressman Sires.The resolution also celebrates the hard work of initiatives that currently provide swimming lessons to underprivileged communities as well as other efforts that help educate children, parents and caregivers about drowning prevention. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives has passed this resolution that recognizes the contributions of organizations that are working to prevent drowning. Together with these organizations, we must promote access to the type of education that can not only improve children’s health, but help save their lives,” added the Congressman. The resolution passed unanimously by voice vote.
09.03.2009	Jersey City, NJ – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs awarded Hudson County a Fiscal Year 2009 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) of $621,462... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 3, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Jersey City, NJ – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs awarded Hudson County a Fiscal Year 2009 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) of $621,462. “As a strong supporter of the JAG program, I am pleased that Hudson County will receive this critical funding that is capable of supporting a variety of important crime fighting initiatives,” said Congressman Sires. “With the JAG award, Hudson County has more resources to prevent crime in its communities,” added the Congressman. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program was created to increase federal support to aid states and localities in their fight against crime. This program allows states to use funding to address the most pressing local needs through a range of activities. Hudson County plans to use its award to purchase new technology and equipment to improve its law enforcement programs. The award will also be used to fund overtime and provide training for law enforcement officers.
09.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires demanded further action by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to ensure a safer airspace over the Hudson River... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 3, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires demanded further action by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to ensure a safer airspace over the Hudson River. “Though I’m encouraged to see FAA making critical safety changes for aircraft flying over the Hudson River in today’s New York Airspace Task Force Recommendations, it saddens me that there has to be a tragedy of this nature to get FAA to take action,” said Congressman Sires. The New York Airspace Task Force recently released recommendations for the Hudson River, including dividing the airspace into distinct corridors to separate aircraft flying over the river from those operating local helicopters. The changes also include new pilot operating practices, which require pilots to use specific radio frequencies, turn on anti-collision devices, and report their aircraft information when entering the Hudson River area. The New York Airspace Task Force did not include all of the recommendations made in previous reports by the Department of Transportation (DOT), the FAA Advisory Committee, and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). “While these new modifications to the airspace may help prevent further tragedy and are a step in the right direction, the FAA must do more to increase safety. I recently sent a letter to FAA insisting that they take immediate action to implement all of the recommendations from DOT, the Advisory Committee, and NTSB. At a minimum, FAA must require the tracking of aircraft below 1100 feet, the installation of collision avoidance systems and the use of transponders to identify an aircraft’s location.” The New York Airspace Task Force included a recommendation that helicopters over the Hudson River fly below 1000 feet. In the past, the number of sightseeing helicopters has exceeded 20,000 a year. “Having helicopters fly at lower altitudes creates a constant noise nuisance for those in New Jersey living along the Hudson River. FAA’s recommendation for helicopters is simply trading one problem for another instead of finding a safe, effective solution.” Congressman Sires will be participating in a hearing later this month to ensure that FAA is taking the steps necessary to improve the airspace congestion over the Hudson River. ###
09.01.2009	Washington, D.C.- With New Jersey’s unemployment rate hovering at 9.3 percent, Congressman Sires called for swift passage of legislation to extend unemployment benefits for more than 25,000 unemployed residents in Hudson, Essex, Middlesex, and Union counties... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 1, 2009 201-222-2828 Legislation will extend benefits for thousands in NJ-13 Washington, D.C.- With New Jersey’s unemployment rate hovering at 9.3 percent, Congressman Sires called for swift passage of legislation to extend unemployment benefits for more than 25,000 unemployed residents in Hudson, Essex, Middlesex, and Union counties. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009, if passed, will continue unemployment benefits for an additional 13 weeks for workers in states where the overall unemployment rate averages 9% or more over a three month period. “Without this critical legislation, hundreds of thousands of Americans will begin to exhaust their unemployment benefits,” said Sires. “We are working hard to rebuild the economy and more jobs are being created, but there is no overnight fix. In the interim, this legislation will help bridge the gap for unemployed workers as they seek new employment.” In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congress extended the termination date of employment benefits through the end of the year along with other provisions to help stimulate the economy, create jobs, and help the unemployed. However, the National Employment Law Project estimates over half a million people will exhaust their unemployment benefits by the end of September and nearly 1.5 million will run out by the end of the year. “With roughly one job opening for every five job seekers, we must act to quickly extend benefits to those hardworking Americans who need it most. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation, which will help many New Jersey families struggling to make ends meet.” Congress is expected to consider an extension of unemployment benefits beginning in September. ###
08.26.2009	"I am saddened to hear about the death of Senator Ted Kennedy. The American people have lost a great leader and the Kennedy family has lost a beloved patriarch... "I am saddened to hear about the death of Senator Ted Kennedy. The American people have lost a great leader and the Kennedy family has lost a beloved patriarch. His leadership on civil rights, health care and education were among his top priorities. He was a champion for all people and believed that everyone should have the chance to realize their potential to the fullest. The Senator's fight against discrimination and consideration for the under represented will never be forgotten."
08.25.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires traveled to the U.S. Coast Guard Base in Staten Island, New York to visit with the U.S. Coast Guard officials responsible for protecting the waterways along the 13th Congressional District... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 27, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires traveled to the U.S. Coast Guard Base in Staten Island, New York to visit with the U.S. Coast Guard officials responsible for protecting the waterways along the 13th Congressional District. He met with US Coast Guard Sector Captain Robert O’Brien and Read Admiral Joseph Nimmich to discuss policy and procedures for protecting our waterways. New Jersey’s 13th district is home to, what is considered by the Department of Homeland Security, as the most dangerous 2-mile stretch of road in the country. With one of the largest ports in the country - Port Newark/Elizabeth, chemical plants, the Newark Airport, and critical transportation infrastructure, Congressman Sires wanted to commend Captain O’Brien and Rear Admiral Nimmich for ensuring the safety of the 13th district and the greater New York/New Jersey area.
08.25.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires visited Innovation Fuels, Inc a bio-diesel manufacturing plant in Newark, New Jersey... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 25, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires visited Innovation Fuels, Inc a bio-diesel manufacturing plant in Newark, New Jersey. Congressman Sires met with the staff of Innovation Fuels, Inc and took a tour of the plant with members of Moveon.org to learn about the manufacturing of bio-diesel. Biodiesel cuts exhaust emissions- minimizing black smoke, odor, and greenhouse gas emissions, air toxins, and particulates. As biodiesel does not contain sulfur, there are no sulfur dioxide emissions that lead to acid rain. Since arriving to the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Sires has been a champion in protecting our environment and pushing clean energy solutions, and he will continue to promote and support sound environmental legislation.
08.13.2009	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced funding for transportation enhancement projects funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 13, 2009 201-222-2828 Recovery projects will create jobs and promote alternate forms of transportation Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced funding for transportation enhancement projects funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Transportation enhancement projects foster more livable communities by enhancing travel options, creating safer routes, preserving and protecting environmental and cultural resources, and promoting alternative forms of transportations. The following projects were selected by the New Jersey Department of Transportation to receive funding: $1,000,000 for construction of the Hudson River Waterfront Walkway & Park at Morris Canal Little Basin $1,000,000 for the Middlesex Greenway – Bikeways $2,000,000 for the construction of the Broad Street Streetscape $500,000 for the Elizabeth Avenue Streetscape Enhancement Project “These projects will go a long way towards improving our communities – making them safer, easier to traverse, and promoting more economic development,” said Congressman Sires. “The construction of the projects will create good paying jobs in the 13th District.”
08.10.2009	Washington, DC - This weekend’s tragedy on the Hudson River highlights the need for improved oversight of the air-tour industry. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey August 10, 2009 201-222-2828 Tragedy on Hudson highlights need for increased safety and stricter standards Washington, DC - This weekend’s tragedy on the Hudson River highlights the need for improved oversight of the air-tour industry. According to the Department of Transportation, the air tour flights tend to be riskier than scheduled airline flights, yet receive fewer inspections and have less strict standards. “The collision between the sightseeing helicopter and plane on the Hudson River is a tragedy, and the fact that a helicopter pilot described the accident as ‘inevitable’ is alarming,” said Sires. “We must do more to prevent these types of terrible accidents and increase efforts to drastically improve safety.” While the Federal Aviation Administration has taken steps to improve the safety of the air-tour industry, several accidents have still occurred. The National Transportation Safety Board has repeatedly urged the FAA and tour operators to improve safety. “We obviously have a problem with the safety of air tours. I contacted FAA as far back as 2007 after constituents raised safety and noise concerns with the amount of aviation traffic over the Hudson. I will continue to work on this issue with my colleagues to push for improved oversight of the air-tour industry,” said Sires. “The FAA needs to step up efforts to control flights in this area, and Congress must increase oversight to ensure that FAA improves safety and protects the constituents of the 13th Congressional District.” ###
07.31.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Support and Successes) Act, to address increasing commute times and give commuters access to alternative forms of transportation... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 31, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Legislation aims to reduce commute times and give commuters more options Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires introduced the Commute LESS (Leveraging Employer Support and Successes) Act, to address increasing commute times and give commuters access to alternative forms of transportation. “Every year commuters are stuck in traffic for nearly one full work week and waste three weeks' worth of gas,” said Congressman Sires. “We can give commuters better options than driving alone and spending hours in traffic by encouraging employers to create and expand commuter benefit programs.” The Commute LESS Act aids commuters by leveraging support from employers. Research performed by the BusinessWeek Research Services found that when employers offered commuter benefit programs, eighteen percent of their employees opted for alternative forms of transportation – including transit, carpooling, teleworking, and biking or walking. In addition to saving commuters time, commuter benefit programs also reduced congestion, conserved fuel, and saved money for commuters. “If we involve employers in the transportation process, than we can make a real difference for commuters. Working families spend nearly thirty percent of their budgets on transportation costs. By improving and creating new commuter benefit programs, they can realize significant savings, spend more time with their families, and waste less time sitting in traffic.” The Commute LESS Act give employers the tools and resources they need to provide employees with alternative forms of transportation by establishing a grant program to create and expand commuter benefit programs. It also provides a better connection between transportation planners and employers by creating an employer advisory council to draft commuter trip reduction plans. ###
07.30.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 3326, the fiscal year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 400 to 30... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 30, 2009 (201) 222-2828 U.S. House of Representatives put troops first with the passage of funding bill Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 3326, the fiscal year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 400 to 30. The bill contains many key investments that support our troops and their families, while improving our defense capabilities. “In this bill, we increase pay for military personnel, we provide funding to ensure that our troops get exceptional medical care, and we fund programs that help support our military families,” said Congressman Sires. “I was pleased to support legislation that makes needed investments at home that will protect our men and women abroad, and commits to reducing our reliance on contractors.” As passed by the House, the bill includes nearly $30 million for first class medical care, providing support for critical medical research on various diseases, as well as support for programs that help injured troops. The bill supports military families by fully funding Family Support and Yellow Ribbon programs. It also provides funding for military equipment, such as shipbuilding initiatives, military helicopters, communication systems, and other vital elements of our national security. For ongoing military operations, the bill would provide funding for U.S. forces overseas and support provisions to begin withdrawal from Iraq. The FY 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill now awaits consideration by the Senate.
07.24.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 3293, the fiscal year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 264 to 153... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 24, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Funding included for key programs to help New Jersey workers, students, and low-income residents Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 3293, the fiscal year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 264 to 153. The bill makes college more affordable, expands access to health care for the uninsured, and invests in American workers. “These funds are critical to supporting New Jersey families,” said Congressman Sires. “By providing increased access to education, job training programs, and health care services, this legislation gives hard-working Americans a much-needed boost during tough economic times.” H.R. 3293 includes funding for several programs that aid workers, students, and low-income residents in New Jersey. Specifically, this bill provides $1.4 billion for dislocated worker employee and training programs, $2.2 billion for community health centers, and $14.5 billion for schools to ensure that low-income children have access to a quality education. The bill also supports an increase in funding to important and lifesaving HIV/AIDS initiatives. Additionally, funding was included to help support seniors through older worker programs, nutrition and transportation services, and improvements to the Social Security Administration. “I am especially happy that this bill protects low-income residents by ensuring more are able to pay their bills, increase their wages, and access critical services,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 3293 now awaits Senate action. # # #
07.24.2009	For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 23, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Funding included for key programs to expand affordable transportation and housing options in the 13th District Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 3288, the fiscal year 2010 Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 256 to 168. This bill makes a number of key investments in transportation infrastructure and vital housing programs. “Transportation and housing expenses are the two largest expenses for most households – in many cases, they account for nearly 50% of household incomes,” said Congressman Sires. “Providing adequate and affordable transportation and housing options directly benefits families and residents in the 13th district. I’m proud to support H.R. 3288, which expands these critical programs.” For transportation, the House bill provides funding to improve public transportation, repair aging highway infrastructure, and advance high speed and intercity rail projects, such as the Northeast Corridor running through New Jersey. Investments to modernize our airports and air traffic control systems are included as well. Considerable investments in housing programs were also made. Specifically, the bill provides increased funding for various housing programs serving veterans, elderly and disabled populations, and persons with AIDS. Increased funding for the Community Development Block Grant and Brownfields Redevelopment programs is also included, which helps to ease the burden on local budgets. “I’m proud that the bill includes $1.4 billion for housing for the elderly and disabled as well as $75 million for veterans in need of a safe and stable place to live,” said Sires. “This bill generously supports these vulnerable populations, who need added assistance especially during difficult economic times.” Additionally, for those who own a home, this bill provides funding for housing counseling programs to help guide families into homes they can afford and to help those who are facing foreclosure from losing their home. H.R. 3288 now awaits Senate action. # # #
07.22.2009	For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 22, 2009 201-222-2828 Statutory PAYGO bill requires Congress to pay for increased spending to ensure future investments in America’s priorities can be funded Washington, DC - Today, Representative Sires joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 2920, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009. It passed by a vote of 265 to 166 and is now awaiting action in the Senate. The legislation requires Congress to offset the costs of tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending with savings elsewhere in the federal budget. However, programs that assist low-income Americans would be protected from cuts, as would changes to Social Security and Medicare. Additionally, needed tax relief for middle class taxpayers would also be exempt from Pay-As-You-Go rules. Namely, changes to the Alternative Minimum Tax, extensions of the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, and the current estate tax exemption and rate would be exempt from offsets. "Until 2002, when the requirement was allowed to expire, Congress had to pay for its actions, and that discipline led us to balanced budgets and even surpluses.” said Sires. “By restoring the ‘pay-as-you-go' principle into law, we are returning to the basic rule that guides every family budget: you don't spend a dollar you don't have.” If the net effect of all legislation enacted during a session of Congress increased the deficit because Congress had not succeeded in paying for all the new costs that it has enacted, there would be an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs. "Paying for our actions makes good sense." said Sires. "We have focused our efforts to date on turning around the economy and helping families make ends meet. Now we must return to our own finances, and make sure we eliminate deficit spending and return to balanced budgets.” ###
07.17.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3183 the fiscal year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill by a vote of 320 to 97... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 15, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 3183 the fiscal year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations bill by a vote of 320 to 97. This bill makes a number of key investments in clean energy, energy independence, environmental cleanup, nuclear non-proliferation, and water infrastructure totaling $33.2 billion in funding. “I am particularly pleased by the $2.25 billion in investments for energy efficiency and renewable energy included in this bill. This funding will increase investments in technologies that use energy more effectively and produce clean, inexpensive energy from domestic sources which will assist in making America a leader in clean energy and less dependant on foreign oil,” stated Congressman Sires. In addition, H.R. 3183 provides $5.5 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers to address the nation’s water resource investment needs, including the deepening of the New York and New Jersey Harbor. The bill also includes $208 million for electricity delivery and energy reliability to modernize and secure the nation’s electricity grid, as well as $1.5 billion towards nuclear nonproliferation to protect the American people by reducing the risk that more countries will acquire nuclear weapons and improve our ability to top nuclear and radiological materials and weapons from being smuggled into the United States. Furthermore, $5.4 billion would be provided for environmental clean-up to mitigate the environmental impacts of over a half-century of national security and civilian nuclear activity. The bill is now awaiting action in the Senate. ###
07.17.2009	Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for funding to protect financial consumers, investors, and taxpayers, while strengthening capital markets for small business and disadvantaged communities... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 17, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding in bill will fund efforts to restore the stability of, and the public confidence in, America’s financial institutions Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for funding to protect financial consumers, investors, and taxpayers, while strengthening capital markets for small business and disadvantaged communities. The House of Representatives passed the bill 219 to 208. “The financial markets are improving so now we must focus on protecting consumers and taxpayers from the type of economic breakdown we are living through” said Sires. “This bill will fund our efforts to stop runaway financial excesses and rebuild regulatory protections for homeowners, investors and consumers in order to further stabilize our economy.” The bill funds several key initiatives: · Increased funding for our financial regulators and Inspectors General of several agencies so taxpayers can restore their faith in the financial system. · Dramatically increases funding for small business lending, particularly to veteran-owned businesses and businesses in economically disadvantaged areas. · Increases funding to the IRS to combat tax evasion to help pay for the bill; while it increases efforts to help individuals solve ongoing tax problems with the IRS. In addition it provides funding for the District of Columbia, the Office of National Drug Policy, and the Federal judiciary. The bill is now awaiting action in the Senate. “This bill coupled with financial regulatory reform currently under consideration in Congress, will help ensure that we do not see this type of economic catastrophe again. Additionally, this bill continues to invest in economic development programs for disadvantaged communities and makes resources available to small businesses to fuel the economy,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
07.15.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sires praised President Obama’s new proposal to strengthen our nation’s community colleges... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 15, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Sires praised President Obama’s new proposal to strengthen our nation’s community colleges. Sires has been an active supporter of investing in community college since his days as Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly. “I have consistently supported the great work done by our community colleges, and I will be a proud supporter of President Obama’s plan to invest in community colleges” Sires said. “It is the key to preparing more students and workers for jobs, aiding those at risk for dropping out of school, and providing job training and educational opportunities to help speed our economic recovery.” Core elements of the President’s plan include creating a community college fund to encourage partnering with businesses and industry, funding innovative programs to help students complete their educations, and upgrading facilities across the country. The plan will also create an online education program, which will drastically expand educational opportunities by offering freely available online programs. “The President’s plan is transformational for our ability to provide access to affordable education. In these hard economic times, we must help students and workers to compete for high-wage jobs, in high-growth industries. I applaud the President for his efforts to improve and expand affordable education through investments in community colleges.” # # #
07.14.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced the release of more than $8 million in funding to New Jersey by the Department of Energy (DOE) for a rebate program to encourage purchases of energy efficient appliances... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 14, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced the release of more than $8 million in funding to New Jersey by the Department of Energy (DOE) for a rebate program to encourage purchases of energy efficient appliances. The money is part of nearly $300 million in funding released by the DOE allocated through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for State-run rebate programs for consumer purchases of new ENERGY STAR qualified home appliances. “The rebates granted through this funding will assist New Jersey consumers in making their homes more energy efficient, while helping to support the nation’s economic recovery, as well as aid our nation in the fight to reduce greenhouse gas emissions,” stated Congressman Sires. The funding will be issued to the New Jersey Department of Energy, which will have the opportunity to select which residential ENERGY STAR qualified appliances to include in its program and the individual rebate amount for each appliance. DOE recommends that program efforts focus on heating and cooling equipment, appliances, and water heaters as these products offer the greatest energy savings potential. DOE anticipates that all funding should be awarded by December 2009. For more information on this program and other Recovery Act related funding opportunities, please visit www.energy.gov/recovery. ###
07.13.2009	Washington, D.C.- Congressman Sires announced the release of federal funds under the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP) authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009... Washington, D.C.- Congressman Sires announced the release of federal funds under the Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program (HPRP) authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The following entities from the 13th District received funding: Elizabeth -- $839,604 Jersey City-- $2,676,991 Newark --$3,533,348 Union City -$555,355 Essex County - $2,520,882 Hudson County - $1,535,992 Union County -$2,169,536 “This funding will provide assistance to families at-risk of becoming homeless and it will help obtain housing for those who are already homeless” said Sires. Funding can be used to provide short and medium-term rental assistance, security deposits, and also helps local governments pay for the case management services, outreach and engagement efforts, and administrative expenses associated with these programs. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced a total of $1,500,000,000 for programs across the country. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act made significant investments in the economy and in infrastructure projects that are sorely needed. But I am happy that the Act made investments in people too,” said Sires. “The number of homeless increased as summer arrived so this funding is vital right now to help those on the brink of homelessness as well as those currently living in their car or on the streets.” ###
07.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires worked to support our nation’s veterans by voting for H.R. 3082, the fiscal year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which passed the House by a vote of 415 to 3... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 10, 2009 201-222-2828 Legislation keeps promise to our veteran’s by providing needed medical care and facility funding Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires worked to support our nation’s veterans by voting for H.R. 3082, the fiscal year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which passed the House by a vote of 415 to 3. “The passage of this bill shows our nation’s veterans that we will continue to support them by ensuring they receive the best health care possible,” said Congressman Sires. “For the first time, advanced funding has also been included to ensure medical services and facilities can continually provide for our veterans.” H.R. 3082 fully funds the President’s request at $108.9 billion to support medical care, claims processors and facility improvements. $48.2 billion was also provided in advanced funding so our veterans never have to go without adequate care. Additionally, $4.6 billion was included for mental health care, $3.2 billion for homeless veterans, and $85 million for extended care facilities to ensure that all our veterans, including those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, are given the care they were promised. Furthermore, funding was also included for military construction projects totaling $24.6 billion. The guard and reserve initiative received $200 million, as well as $7.5 billion for Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and $537 million for environmental clean up. “I am so proud that the House of Representatives has been able to come together in a bipartisan way to support those that have honorably served our country, and to remind them that we will keep our promise to them by providing the care and benefits they deserve,” said Congressman Sires. ###
07.10.2009	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting H.R. 3081, the Fiscal Year 2010 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 318 to 106... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 10, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Congressman Sires Votes Yes on Foreign Operations Bill Supporting Security at Home and Abroad Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting H.R. 3081, the Fiscal Year 2010 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 318 to 106. H.R. 3081 makes a number of key investments to protect our national security by promoting democracy and alleviating global poverty. The bill provides funding for 1000 new Foreign Service Staff Positions, 300 additional Foreign Service Officers for USAID, and allows the government to strengthen global public health infrastructure in order to protect the health of Americans and save lives overseas. “It is important to remember that investing in aid, diplomacy, and health care abroad helps ensure our safety at home. This funding works to promote democracy and improve the quality of life through investment in education and health programs,” said Congressman Sires. “I am also pleased to support funding to expand the Peace Corps efforts around the globe,” added Congressman Sires. Specifically, the bill provides $450 million to the Peace Corps, $5.7 billion for international HIV/AIDS prevention, and $1.4 billion for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, an aid program which creates partnerships to put countries on a path to economic and social stability. Overall, the bill’s funding level is $2 billion below the President’s request, further illustrating the House of Representatives’ commitment to fiscal responsibility. H.R. 3081 awaits Senate action.
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 2997, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration Appropriations bill, which passed the House by a vote of 266 to 160... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 9, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding included for key women’s and children’s health programs Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 2997, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration Appropriations bill, which passed the House by a vote of 266 to 160. The bill makes a number of key investments to protect public health and aid low income households: $3 billion for the Food and Drug Administration, $7.5 billion for Nutrition for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program and $180 million for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program. “I am very pleased that the Commodity Supplemental Food Program was expanded to include New Jersey,” said Congressman Sires. “The $180 million included in the bill is critical to providing nutritious food to low-income women, infants, children and elderly during this period of economic stress and will help bring relief to families struggling with rising food costs.” Funding for H.R. 2997 totals $22.9 billion and also includes $7.5 billion in needed funding for the WIC program, which helps provide proper funding and nutrition to mothers and their children. The bill also features $125 million for program improvements including fruit and vegetable vouchers and expanding nutrition education programs for mothers. H.R. 2997 now awaits Senate action.
07.02.2009	Washington, D.C.- The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced the release of $851 million in federal stimulus funds to address the facility and equipment needs of Community Health Centers in order to increase access to health care services for underserved populations... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 2, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced the release of $851 million in federal stimulus funds to address the facility and equipment needs of Community Health Centers in order to increase access to health care services for underserved populations. Nearly $17 million was provided for twenty health centers in New Jersey, including five in the 13th District. The money was made available by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). The funding is part of the ARRA’s Capitol Improvement Program (CIP) grants to support the construction, repair and renovation of over 1,500 health center sites nationwide. The recipients will also use the funds to purchase new equipment, such as health information technology systems. The specific centers and allotment in the 13th District include: $682,390 for the Horizon Health Center in Jersey City; $727,645 for the Jewish Renaissance Medical Center in Perth Amboy; $630,345 for the Metropolitan Family Health Network, Inc. in Jersey City; $341,595 for the Newark City Health and Human Services in Newark; and $2,391,440 for the North Hudson Community Action Corporation in West New York. “I am pleased that HHS has granted the necessary funding to facilitate the expansion of these five health centers so they may continue delivering preventive and primary care services to the most vulnerable New Jerseyans,” stated Congressman Sires. The CIP grant awards are the third set of health center grants provided through the Recovery Act. All five centers were also awarded money in March through Increased Demand for Services grants, used to help to provide care for the increase in patients seen at Community Health Centers. ###
06.30.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced the release of over $10.5 million for the Lincoln Park Restoration project in Jersey City... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 30, 2009 201-222-2828 The funding marks largest award for a restoration project granted through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced the release of over $10.5 million for the Lincoln Park Restoration project in Jersey City. This funding was appropriated through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), signed into law on February 17, 2009. The project is one of 50 coastal restoration projects chosen from a pool of 814 proposals by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA). The grant will be distributed to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection to administer the project in order to restore 30 acres of a larger 80-acre coastal wetland in the urban industrialized area of the Hackensack River basin. “This funding not only marks an important step towards revitalizing the ecosystem at Lincoln Park, but it will also generate 41 jobs in a short period of time for Jersey City,” stated Congressman Sires. The $10.5 million will be used to restore the area’s native salt marsh community to improve the overall ecological health of the Hackensack River ecosystem and increase public access to a restored urban ecological sanctuary. Restoration of the wetlands will be done by excavating previously placed dredge and landfill material and re-contouring the site to create intertidal habitat and tidal creeks. Specifically, this project will restore approximately 24 acres of wetland and 11 acres of transition area and will create 4,500 linear feet of tidally flowed creeks, which over time is expected to increase fish populations. This funding is part of $167 million appropriated to the NOAA through the ARRA. For further information on this project and other coastal restoration projects nationwide, please visit the NOAA Recovery Act website at https://www.noaa.gov/recovery. ###
06.26.2009	For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 26, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Funding included for key programs to improve New Jersey’s environmental infrastructure Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 2996, the fiscal year 2010 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 254 to 173. This bill makes a number of key investments in clean air grants and clean drinking water funds, such as $1.5 billion for low-interest loans to help local communities improve their drinking water systems, $284 million in grants to implement the Clean Air Act and reduce emissions from diesel engines, and $815 million to clean up toxic waste sites. “These funds are critical to improving environmental infrastructure in New Jersey’s 13th District,” said Congressman Sires. “Several of these programs were severely underfunded in the last administration, and this year’s increased funding will allow New Jersey to address aging infrastructure to improve water and air quality in the state.” The bill also includes funding for other programs that are significant to New Jersey. H.R. 2996 provides $160 million for sewer and water grants to local communities – a program that is highly valued by many communities in New Jersey. Additionally, funding was included for the evaluation and cleanup of “brownfields,” which provides $100 million to turn former industrial and commercial sites from problem properties to productive community use. H.R. 2996 now awaits Senate action.
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act, by a vote of 219 to 212... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 26, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act, by a vote of 219 to 212. This bill revitalizes our economy by creating millions of new jobs, increases our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and protects our planet by reducing the pollution that causes global warming. “Aside from the important provisions in this bill to combat global warming, this legislation unleashes private sector investment in clean energy to create 1.7 million new jobs across America and New Jersey that cannot be shipped overseas. It will be clean energy technology- made right here in America,” expressed Congressman Sires. Specifically, H.R. 2454 would establish a Renewable Electricity Standard to require electric utility companies to meet a certain percentage of their load with electricity generated from renewable resources, such as wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, and burning waste to energy. The bill also focuses on reducing dangerous carbon emissions that cause global warming by limiting emissions from electric utilities, oil refineries, and other major sources to be implemented in 2012. In particular, this bill would reduce carbon emissions from major U.S. sources by 17% by 2020 and over 80% by 2050. To help reach the goal of a clean American economy, this bill would also make bold investments in clean energy technologies and energy efficiency, including cleaner coal technology with carbon capture sequestration, and efficient vehicles, and place new energy saving standards on buildings, appliances, and industry. Additionally, this legislation would protect consumers from energy price increases through price spike protections and additional monthly energy refunds. Furthermore, H.R. 2454 would provide incentives to mortgage lenders to provide lower interest loans to consumers who build, buy, or remodel homes and businesses to improve the building’s energy efficiency. “For years, New Jersey has been a leader in fighting global warming. This legislation will build on New Jersey’s initiatives to promote a clean energy economy and break our dependence on foreign oil, all while providing consumers with the necessary protections from rising energy costs,” stated Congressman Sires ###
06.25.2009	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 2892, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 389 to 37... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 24, 2009 201-222-2828 Funding included for key grant programs and the Transportation Security Administration to keep New Jersey – 13 safe Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires supported H.R. 2892, the fiscal year 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which passed the House by a vote of 389 to 37. This bill makes a number of key investments in the First Responder Grant Programs to include: $887 million for Urban Area Grants, $250 million for Transit Grants, $800 million for Fire Grants and $40 million for Emergency Operations Centers. “The $3.55 billion included for the First Responder Grant Programs are critical to New Jersey’s 13th District,” said Congressman Sires. “This funding will go a long way toward ensuring the safety of my constituents and securing important infrastructure in a densely populated area such as Northern New Jersey.” Funding for H.R. 2892 totals $42.63 billion and also includes $7.7 billion in needed funding for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). About $1 billion will go towards purchasing and installing explosive detection systems at airports, $61 million for surface transportation security inspectors, $123 million for TSA to meet the 100-percent air cargo security screening mandates, as well as $804 million for the Customs and Border Protection to develop and deploy systems to screen cargo containers. “My district contains – what the Department of Homeland Security refers to as – the most dangerous two-mile stretch in the country. Funding that ensures our first responders are adequately prepared is critical, and funding to guarantee the safety of our transportation infrastructure is vital to the safety of my community,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 2892 now awaits Senate action. ###
06.19.2009	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sires voted to support the Commerce-Science-Justice (CJS) Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2010, and the legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a vote of 259 to 157... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 18, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Sires voted to support the Commerce-Science-Justice (CJS) Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2010, and the legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a vote of 259 to 157. The CJS Appropriations offers funding to a number of essential programs, including over $3 billion for state and local law enforcement and crime prevention grants, nearly $7 billion for National Science Foundation research, and $7.4 billion in critical funding for the 2010 Census. “These appropriations provide essential federal funding that supports the needs of our local communities. Much of this funding also contributes to the work already begun by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to keep our neighborhoods safe, promote innovation, and grow our local economies,” said Congressman Sires. Specifically, the Commerce-Science-Justice bill would help fund several initiatives that will have positive local impacts. “This bill offers an additional $298 million to hire more than 7,000 police officers, and this bill would aid local crime prevention efforts with $529 million for Byrne Justice Assistant Grants. This bill also includes $385 million for juvenile justice programs and $400 million for services to help protect victims of domestic violence and prevent violence against women. Furthermore, this bill will increase opportunities for our young people by providing over $1 billion for Science, Technology, Engineering and Math education.” added Congressman Sires. The Commerce-Science-Justice bill also achieves fiscally responsibility, as it eliminates eleven programs, and cuts funding for thirteen additional programs below 2009 levels. This bill now awaits consideration by the Senate before final approval by President Obama.
06.17.2009	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced the guidelines for the high speed rail grant program established in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 30, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced the guidelines for the high speed rail grant program established in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. States and regions are eligible to apply for $8 billion in competitive grants to fund high speed and intercity passenger rail projects. “With this announcement, we are moving closer to achieving high speed passenger rail service in the most congested corridors in the country. Through this grant program, and other critical transportation initiatives, I am confident that we can transform the way people travel, and considerably improve their quality of life,” said Congressman Sires. “Those of us in the Northeast Corridor have already experienced the benefits high speed rail has to offer, and I am thrilled that this program will allow for further improvements in service and help to expand high speed rail to other areas. Investments in passenger rail mean fewer cars on the road and planes in the air, less pollution affecting our environment, and faster, more efficient travel,” stressed Congressman Sires. Detailed information regarding the Department of Transportation’s grant application guidelines can be found at https://www.ftc.gov/.
06.17.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency announced final allocations for FY 2009 grant programs... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 16, 2009 201-222-2828 Newark/Jersey City area to receive over $35 million in DHS grant funding Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency announced final allocations for FY 2009 grant programs, including the Homeland Security Grant Program, State Homeland Security Program – Tribal, Nonprofit Security Grant Program, and Regional Catastrophic Preparedness Grant Program. Through the Urban Area Security Initiative, the Newark/Jersey City area will receive $35,298,150 in grant monies. This funding will be awarded to the New Jersey Department of Homeland Security’s State Administrative Agent and is required to be spent in the Newark/Jersey City area. “I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security understands the needs we have in Northern New Jersey and how important these grants are to ensure the safety of my constituents,” said Congressman Sires.
06.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235 to 187. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 10, 2009 201-222-2828 H.R. 2410 strengthens the State Department’s diplomatic corps through increased hiring and training, and pledges to double the Peace Corps Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires joined his colleagues in supporting H.R. 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235 to 187. “The three D’s - defense, diplomacy and development - are the three key components of our national security strategy,” said Congressman Sires. “I believe this bill would give the Department of State and Peace Corps the tools necessary to ensure that diplomacy plays an integral role in furthering U.S. foreign policy goals.” H.R. 2410 would strengthen our diplomatic corps by giving the Department of State the authority to hire over 1500 new Foreign Service Officers and improve their language capabilities. Peace Corps volunteers are vital to U.S. diplomacy as they are often the only American faces in some of the world’s most remote places and this bill would work to double the number of volunteers. Finally, H.R. 2410 would establish the Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation to expand the number of U.S. students studying abroad. This will help our young people maintain an educational advantage by learning new languages and fostering mutual understandings between cultures. “The Foreign Relations Authorization Act will help to ensure our safety at home and abroad by putting us one step closer to developing a global security strategy that uses diplomacy as a crucial tool,” said Congressman Sires. H.R. 2410 now awaits Senate consideration.
06.12.2009	As posted on The Hill's Congress Blog (6/10/2009) How do you keep people moving when you have the highest population density and the highest volume of traffic on highways? Transit. Without investments in transit, the region’s highways would be parking lots – costing commuters precious hours each day, wasting fuel, producing more harmful emissions, and slowing the movement of goods coming from the port. On June 8th, New Jersey Transit broke ground on an unprecedented mass transit tunnel under the Hudson River from New Jersey to New York. The new tunnel with $9 billion in Federal, State, and local funds will more than double rail capacity into New York City, as well as take more than 20,000 cars off crowded roads. With high unemployment rates – especially in the construction industry – the groundbreaking of the nation’s largest transit project could not come at a better time. The ARC Mass Transit Tunnel will create more than 6,000 jobs a year during the construction phase and tens of thousands of additional jobs when completed. Importantly, the tunnel will also ensure long-term economic and environmental benefits. As we have seen in the past, the expansion of transit increases workforce mobility, attracts new businesses, and revitalizes neighborhoods. Once the tunnel is completed, there will be additional capacity available to expand other transit lines throughout the state – increasing mobility and decreasing harmful environmental effects from congestion. Given the benefits provided by the development of the ARC Mass Transit Tunnel to New Jersey and the region, I am proud to have advocated for this worthwhile project – and will continue to do so. The ARC Mass Transit Tunnel will benefit transit riders, our communities, and our economy for generations. https://blog.thehill.com/2009/06/10/nations-largest-transit-project-could-not-come-at-a-better-time-rep-albio-sires/#more-12534
06.04.2009	Washington, D.C.-Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2200, the Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act by a vote of 397 to 25... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 4, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.-Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 2200, the Transportation Security Administration Authorization Act by a vote of 397 to 25. This bill would help to keep our nation safe by reauthorizing the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) in order to bolster and expand its resources. “This bill is especially important for the 13th District, given that it has the most dangerous two mile stretch in the country with the number of at-risk sites between Newark Liberty International Airport and Port Elizabeth,” said Congressman Sires. “It will provide the TSA with the tools necessary to keep all our modes of transportation secure.” H.R. 2200 would increase our nation’s homeland security measures by authorizing $7.6 billion in FY 2010 and $8.1 billion in FY 2011 for the TSA. It also includes important enhancements for rail and transit security, aviation security, and security training and performance, as well as additional resources for explosive detection canine teams, and programs for the development of new security technologies. “I am particularly pleased that this legislation would triple funding for surface transportation security. Since the attacks of 9/11, events around the globe have shown that surface transportation systems are highly vulnerable targets for terrorist attacks. With this bill, we will be able to make our transportation systems safer and more secure for passengers,” stated Congressman Sires. H.R. 2200 now awaits action in the Senate. ###
05.11.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congress passed H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009. The bill passed by a vote of 300 to 114... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 7, 2009 201-222-2828 This bill will outlaw many of the outrageous industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom, and it would require that borrowers can repay their loans. Washington, D.C. Today, Congress passed H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009. The bill passed by a vote of 300 to 114. If passed in the Senate and signed into law by the President, this bill would end the predatory lending practices that drove the housing market, and the broader economy, downward. “Our economy has taken a real hit because mortgage lenders approved loans that homeowners could not afford and because borrowers accepted those mortgage loans believing they could make ends meet. Unfortunately, too many could not get by,” said Sires. “Had this bill been in place a few years ago, I believe that these loans would never have been made.” This bill would ensure that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer and prohibit them from steering borrowers into higher cost loans. It would establish a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Additionally, it would: prohibit steering homebuyers into higher cost loans when unnecessary and require transparency if the lender receives compensation when the loan is made; require creditors to retain an economic interest (at least 5 percent) in the credit risk of each loan that the creditor transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party; require that all loans provide a real benefit to the consumer when refinancing their mortgage; for the first time ever, make the secondary mortgage market responsible for complying with these standards when they buy loans and turn them into securities; and protect renters so that they receive proper notification and are given time to relocate before the home they rent is foreclosed. “Under current law, renters are evicted when a foreclosed home is sold regardless of their rental agreement. This bill gives renters 30 days to find a new place to live before the new owners can evict them,” said Sires. Renters who have paid their rent on time and in full should not be evicted without notice. ###
05.06.2009	The recent economic stimulus package directed support to our country’s vast infrastructure needs. Maintenance and expansion projects funded through the stimulus package are currently underway creating jobs and boosting the economy... The recent economic stimulus package directed support to our country’s vast infrastructure needs. Maintenance and expansion projects funded through the stimulus package are currently underway creating jobs and boosting the economy. On April 13, 2009, President Obama announced that 2,000 transportation projects have begun construction in the 41 days since the transportation stimulus projects were announced. While these projects work to stimulate the economy now, it is equally important that we implement a long-term transportation plan. The 111th Congress is tasked with reauthorizing the next transportation bill, and we must take this opportunity to ensure that the bill focuses on effectively moving goods through all modes of transportation – highways, railways, airways, waterways – to protect and create jobs, strengthen our economy, and improve our quality of life. New Jersey’s economy depends largely on our ability to effectively and efficiently move goods. More than 500,000, or approximately 1 in 8, jobs in the state are directly affected by the goods movement industry, which includes the shipping of everything from food and clothing to cars and industrial supplies. When products are able to move smoothly through various modes of transportation, the goods movement industry is capable of generating extensive economic development that supports increased business activity, jobs, income, and tax revenues. If the flow of goods moving through the state is impeded by unsuitable conditions and infrastructure, the New Jersey region may not be able to maintain its status as the premier east coast shipping location and preserve the economic opportunities that come with that status. Addressing goods movement also has a direct benefit on our quality of life. More efficient goods movement enhances our ability to move on the roads, which means less time and gas spent commuting. It also means fewer harmful effects on our environment and less damage to our infrastructure. Additionally, the ability to efficiently move goods lowers the price of products, such as groceries and medicines, by decreasing the time and expense to ship them to local stores. With the proximity of the New York/New Jersey port, residents of New Jersey stand to benefit the most from efficient goods movement. In order to reap these benefits, we must make infrastructure investments that facilitate the movement of goods. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the 111th Congress, I will be working to enhance goods movement through an intermodal transportation plan that strengthens our economy, protects and increases jobs in our region, and improves our quality of life.
04.30.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 627, the Credit Card Holders’ Bill of Rights, by a vote of 357 to 70 in order to provide critical protections against unfair, yet common, credit card practices... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 30, 2009 201-222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in passing H.R. 627, the Credit Card Holders’ Bill of Rights, by a vote of 357 to 70 in order to provide critical protections against unfair, yet common, credit card practices. This bill will provide the necessary relief to the nearly half of American families that are suffering from credit card debt. “Now is the time to stand up for American consumers struggling through this recession,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill provides tough new regulations on credit card companies to protect consumers facing excessive credit card fees, enormous interest rates, and unfair, incomprehensible agreements that credit card companies revise at will.” H.R. 627 will even the playing field between card issuers and cardholders by applying sensible regulations that will ban retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks. It will also increase the advance notice of future rate hikes, providing cardholders with the necessary information and the right to make decisions regarding their own finances. Furthermore, this bill will outlaw credit cards to minors under age 18, prohibit credit card companies from imposing fees when customers pay their bill, and allow customers to set a lower credit card limit. “I am pleased to bring the necessary relief to New Jersey consumers. I believe a crucial component of economic recovery is putting an end to abusive credit practices that are continuing to drive millions of Americans deeper and deeper into debt,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
04.14.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires announces the release of over $2.7 million for the State of New Jersey to provide funding for food and shelter for jurisdictions with very high levels of poverty and unemployment... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 9, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires announces the release of over $2.7 million for the State of New Jersey to provide funding for food and shelter for jurisdictions with very high levels of poverty and unemployment. This funding was appropriated in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, signed into law on February 17, 2009. This funding will go to 15 counties in the State and additional funds will go to the State to meet needs elsewhere in New Jersey. Locally, Hudson County will receive $206,540, Essex County will receive $264,424, Union County will receive $172,453; and Middlesex County will receive 235,987. “These funds will enhance the safety net for those who need it most, said Sires. “Many among us have fallen on hard times and this funding will ensure they get food and a place to stay while they get back on their feet.” Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) funds can be used for a broad range of services, including mass shelter, mass feeding, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, one-month assistance with rent, mortgage and utility payments to prevent evictions, and transition assistance from shelters to stable living conditions. ESFP’s objectives are to allocate funds to the neediest areas; to ensure fast response; to foster public-private sector partnerships; to ensure local decision-making; and to maintain minimal but accountable reporting This funding is part of the $100 million appropriated in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. For more information about the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, please visit https://www.recovery.gov/ ###
04.14.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires announces the release of over $34 million in New Jersey to provide child care services or improve existing child care services for working families... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 9, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires announces the release of over $34 million in New Jersey to provide child care services or improve existing child care services for working families. This funding was appropriated in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, signed into law on February 17, 2009. The funding can be used by New Jersey to support child care services for more families whose children require care while they are working, seeking employment or receiving job training or education. The funds will support a wide range of child care providers, including child care centers and home-based programs “This funding will help ease the minds of working parents who now more than ever need access to child care,” said Sires. “Parents need this support so they can keep their current job or, if unemployed, find a new job or go back to school.” This funding is part of the $2 billion nationwide appropriated under the Child Care and Development Block Grant. This funding will provide child care services to an additional 300,000 children in low-income families while their parents go to work. It will also fund quality improvements at approved child care providers. Today, only one out of every seven children eligible for federal child care assistance receives it. This funding will allow more families to have access to quality child care. For more information about the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, please visit https://www.recovery.gov/ ###
04.08.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires announced allocations for critical Preparedness Grants awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency for Fiscal Year 2009. For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 8, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sires announced allocations for critical Preparedness Grants awarded through the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency for Fiscal Year 2009. More than $80 million was allocated in federal funding to assist state and local governments as well as private industry in strengthening community preparedness. Awards will be made on a rolling basis over the summer. “New Jersey has the most dangerous two miles in America in terms of security threats,” said Congressman Sires. “These grants are critical to our area and will go a long way towards making our communities safer and more protected.” The FY 2009 Preparedness Grants underline this effort by focusing on improving strategic planning and preparedness and measuring performance. Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Grant Program –to improve emergency management and preparedness capabilities by supporting flexible, sustainable, secure and interoperable EOCs to address identified deficiencies and needs. - $1 million to Hudson County - $250,000 to Essex County Intercity Bus Security Grant Program (IBSGP) – to assist operators of intercity and charter bus services to support security plans, facility security upgrades and vehicle and driver protection. - $1.3 million to Academy Express - $444,000 to Coach USA Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) – to protect critical transit infrastructure from terrorism. - $23.8 million to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey - $5.5 million to the New Jersey Transit Corp. - $25 million to Amtrak Port Security Grant Program (PSGP) – to protect critical port infrastructure from terrorism, enhance risk management capabilities to protect against non-conventional weapons; and to conduct training and exercises; and to support implementation of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC). - $45 million to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) – to increase preparedness capabilities for safeguarding critical infrastructure sites and key resource assets, such as chemical facilities and nuclear power plants, through planning and equipment acquisition. - $3.6 million to New Jersey Interoperable Emergency Communications Grant Program (IECGP) – for planning, training, exercises and equipment to states to carry out initiatives identified in Statewide Communication Interoperability Plans, and improve interoperable emergency communications for responding to natural disasters and acts of terrorism. - $1.4 million to New Jersey Driver’s License Security Grant Program (DLSGP) – to prevent terrorism, reduce fraud and to improve the reliability and accuracy of personal identification documents that states and territories issue.- $1.1 million to New Jersey Further information on preparedness grant programs is available at www.dhs.gov and www.fema.gov/grants.
03.12.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today Congressman Sires meet with Olympic gold medalist, Cullen Jones, and the USA Swimming Foundation to discuss the need to provide swimming lessons, especially for minority children... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 12, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, DC – Today Congressman Sires meet with Olympic gold medalist, Cullen Jones, and the USA Swimming Foundation to discuss the need to provide swimming lessons, especially for minority children. Swimmer Cullen Jones made history last summer when he helped his teammates win an Olympic gold medal in the 4x100 freestyle relay. “It is unacceptable that each day an average of ten people die from drowning accidents in our country, and it is shameful that drowning rates among minority children are 2 to 3 times higher than the rates of nonminority children,” said Congressman Sires. The USA Swimming Foundation, the fundraising branch of USA Swimming, has developed the “Make A Splash” campaign to help provide swimming education opportunities for children that do not currently have access to the life-saving instruction. “I am thrilled that Cullen Jones has dedicated his time to promoting this important campaign. Where I grew up, swimming lessons were not something everyone did. Pools were scarce, and swimming was not an easily accessible sport. We must ensure that each child has the opportunity to learn how to swim in order to prevent more needless deaths,” added Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires was joined by Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a devoted advocate for drowning prevention, at the meeting. On January 13, 2009 the two members introduced H.Res. 57 a resolution expressing the importance of swimming education for children in our country. The resolution also celebrates the work of initiatives that currently provide swimming lessons to underprivileged communities as well as other efforts that help educate parents and caregivers about drowning prevention.
03.06.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, the White House announced the release of funding under The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 6, 2009 201-222-2828 This funding allows states and local governments to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system Washington, D.C. Today, the White House announced the release of funding under The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. Funding for these grants was authorized under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 enacted on February 17, 2009. This funding can be used by states and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and to improve the criminal justice system. “I am pleased to see the funding for this valuable program being distributed today by the Department of Justice.” said Sires. “It will immediately help state and local governments prevent, fight, and prosecute crime.” Statewide, New Jersey will receive $47.7 million, with $18 million going straight to localities and the remainder to the State for statewide initiatives. Towns in Hudson County will receive $2.7 million, towns in Essex County will receive $3.8 million, towns in Middlesex County will receive almost $1 million, and towns in Union County will receive $1.3 million. Funds are distributed by a formula based on population and crime statistics, with a minimum allocation to ensure that each state and territory receives an appropriate share. “This funding will allow towns of the 13th district to retain law enforcement personnel who may otherwise have lost their job during this hard economic time.” Sires added, “It is a first step on the road to recovery for our community.” ###
03.06.2009	Washington, D.C.- Representative Albio Sires welcomed more than $60 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for transportation projects in the 13th District of New Jersey... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 6, 2009 201-222-2828 The New Jersey Department of Transportation will invest millions of dollars of transportation stimulus funds in the 13th district. Washington, D.C. Representative Albio Sires welcomed more than $60 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for transportation projects in the 13th District of New Jersey. Congressman Albio Sires voted in favor of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which President Obama signed into law on February 17, 2009. “We need to get people back to work,” said Sires. “These funds will create or save thousands of jobs in the 13th district, while also making critical, long-term investments in our highways, bridges, and mass transit systems.” Next week, the Lincoln Highway Bridges on Route 1&9 between Jersey City, Kearny, and Newark will receive $30 million in federal funding to remove the existing protective coating and begin preventative maintenance that will extend the life of the bridge. Other projects in the area that will receive federal funding include: Wittpenn Bridge - $12 million to complete the final design and accelerate the construction of the bridge over the Hackensack River between Jersey City and Kearny Route 440 Ramp, West Side Avenue, State Street - $800,000 to design and accelerate construction of the bridge deck replacement in Perth Amboy Route 440 – $4 million for resurfacing from JFK Boulevard to 22nd Street in Bayonne Hudson Bergen Light Rail – $15 million for the construction of new switches Other investments in New Jersey include $2.5 million for bus shelter upgrades throughout the state, $22 million for the replacement of ties and tracks throughout the commuter rail system, and more than $35 million for rehabilitating rail cars and locomotives. Federal funding also includes $130 million for construction of the trans-Hudson ARC mass transit tunnel project. This funding announced on March 5 does not include an additional $162 million of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds for county and local transportation priorities throughout the state, which will be announced in the coming weeks. ###
02.27.2009	Hoboken, NJ- On February 27, 2009, Congressman Albio Sires presented Steven's Institute of Technology senior student Emily Woo with an official congressional record for her outstanding achievements in sports... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 27, 2009 201-222-2828 Legislation recognizes National Girls and Women in Sports Day Hoboken, NJ. – On February 27, 2009, Congressman Albio Sires presented Steven's Institute of Technology senior student Emily Woo with an official congressional record for her outstanding achievements in sports. Emily a member of the swim team recently was a conference champ in the 200-yard individual medley and was part of three conference championship relay teams. She also automatically qualified for the 200-yard relay team for 2009 NCAA Division III Swimming and Diving Championships at the University of Minnesota. The United States House of Representatives approved a resolution on February 10, 2009, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, to support the goals and ideals of National Girls and Women in Sports Day and to encourage schools and communities to increase opportunities for girls and women in sports. "Athletics are one of the best opportunities for personal growth, and yet there has not always been an equal opportunity for girls and women to participate," said Congressman Sires. "As a former athlete, I know firsthand the benefits of competing in sports; and everyone regardless of background should have equal access to be involved. I commend the National Girls and Women in Sports Coalition for their work to give everyone a chance to play." On February 4, 2009, the 23rd National Girls and Women in Sports Day was celebrated in schools and communities across the country. National Girls and Women in Sports Day, an event sponsored by the National Girls and Women in Sports Coalition, increases awareness of the importance sports play in the lives of girls and women by celebrating female athletes’ achievements, acknowledging the positive influence of sports participation in women’s lives, and urging equality and access for women in sports. The resolution passed unanimously with a vote of 398 to 0.
02.13.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in favor of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 13, 2009 201-222-2828 This bill will create or save 3.5 million jobs, make investments in health, education, and infrastructure to improve conditions today and in the future. Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in favor of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. After the House and Senate conference committee reported out the final conference report Thursday, the House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 246 to 183. “This bill will create or save 100,000 jobs in New Jersey, with 7,800 jobs in the 13th district alone,” said Sires. “While not a perfect bill, I could not vote against these jobs and the families who will benefit from this bill.” The bill will cost $790 billion and make critical investments in infrastructure and transportation, education, health care, and it will help small businesses and families by lowering their tax burden. Additionally, the bill provides unprecedented oversight, accountability, and transparency to ensure that taxpayer dollars are invested effectively, efficiently, and as quickly as possible. Specifically, the bill: Health Invests $17 billion nationwide in health information technology, growing jobs in this critical sector. This investment will reduce health care costs and improve the health care for all Americans. Helps families who lost their job and cannot afford their health insurance COBRA premiums by offering a subsidy on those premiums. Education Invests $39.5 billion to local school districts to prevent layoffs among school staff, for school modernization efforts, and other repairs to existing school building. Improves school affordability by increasing Pell Grants by $500, improving work study and Perkins loan availability, and increasing our investment in job training programs for those seeking a new career. Transportation and Infrastructure Invests $27.5 billion in highways, $8.4 billion in public transportation, $1.3 billion for air transportation, and $9.3 billion for rail transportation. $2.25 billion for housing development at the local level through the HOME program and the Low Income Housing Tax Credit, creating more housing for families and more development for the local economy. Tax Relief for the Middle Class and Small Business Invests in working families by temporarily eliminating tax withholding in their paycheck for 95 percent of Americans. Tax deductions for the purchase of a first home or new car, and a temporary fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax hitting more middle-class families every year. Temporarily lowers small business estimated tax payments in 2009“I am happy to go back to my district and tell my constituents that the government acted swiftly and decisively to help them make it through this economic crisis,” Sires noted. “I am happy to go back to my district and tell my constituents that the government acted swiftly and decisively to help them make it through this economic crisis,” Sires noted. “I am confident that we will see an end to this economic crisis in the near future and that this bill will be judged as having played a significant role in that turnaround.”
02.10.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, the House of Representatives approved a resolution, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, to support the goals and ideals of National Girls and Women in Sports Day and to encourage schools and communities to increase opportunities for girls and women in sports... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 10, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Legislation recognizes National Girls and Women in Sports Day Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved a resolution, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, to support the goals and ideals of National Girls and Women in Sports Day and to encourage schools and communities to increase opportunities for girls and women in sports. “Athletics are one of the best opportunities for personal growth, and yet there has not always been an equal opportunity for girls and women to participate,” said Congressman Sires. “As a former athlete, I know firsthand the benefits of competing in sports; and everyone regardless of background should have equal access to be involved. I commend the National Girls and Women in Sports Coalition for their work to give everyone a chance to play.” On February 4, 2009, the 23rd National Girls and Women in Sports Day was celebrated in schools and communities across the country. National Girls and Women in Sports Day, an event sponsored by the National Girls and Women in Sports Coalition, increases awareness of the importance sports play in the lives of girls and women by celebrating female athletes’ achievements, acknowledging the positive influence of sports participation in women’s lives, and urging equality and access for women in sports. The resolution passed unanimously with a vote of 398 to 0. ###
02.10.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, PSE&G announced the Solar-4-All program to invest nearly $800 million over 5 years on solar power production in its New Jersey service area. For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 10, 2009 (201) 222-2828 Washington, DC – Today, PSE&G announced the Solar-4-All program to invest nearly $800 million over 5 years on solar power production in its New Jersey service area. “I am pleased by PSE&G’s plan to invest millions of dollars in the development of solar power for New Jersey through the Solar-4-All program. This investment will install solar panels throughout our neighborhoods and nearly triple New Jersey’s current solar power production. Progressive investments like these are crucial to establishing sustainable domestic energy sources, meeting New Jersey’s ambitious energy goals, and creating good paying jobs locally,” said Congressman Sires. “While there is still much work to be done to ensure a healthy and productive future for our children and our planet, every solar panel that is installed reduces CO2 emissions and positively impacts our environment. Investments in renewable energy sources not only improve our environment, but can stimulate our economy and potentially lower our energy bills,” added Congressman Sires.
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C.- Today, Rep. Sires joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the final version of bipartisan legislation to provide health care to 11 million children in modest-income families... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 4, 2009 201-222-2828 This Legislation is Estimated to Provide 116,000 Uninsured Children in New Jersey with Health Care Coverage Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Sires joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the final version of bipartisan legislation to provide health care to 11 million children in modest-income families. The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act passed by a vote of 290 to 135. The bill will now be sent to President Obama’s desk for his signature, and he has indicated he will sign it into law later this afternoon. “I’ve fought for this legislation since I took office and I am very pleased that President Obama will be signing this key bill later today to provide health care coverage for 11 million children,” stated Congressman Sires. “This is the same legislation that President Bush vetoed twice in the last Congress. Providing health coverage for America’s children is the change America needs.” “No child in my district should ever go without medical care,” said Sires. “I was proud to support a plan to improve the health of 116,000 children currently uninsured in New Jersey, reduce the costly use of emergency rooms for primary care, and move us closer to providing every child in our nation with affordable, high-quality health care.” The State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) was created in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too little to afford health insurance for their children, but too much to qualify for Medicaid. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes SCHIP through FY 2013. In New Jersey alone, this legislation will maintain coverage for the 150,277 children currently enrolled in New Jersey’s FamilyCare Program, while also helping the state provide care for the 116,000 children currently eligible for the program but not yet enrolled. Finally, this bill allows families enrolled in health insurance through their employer, but who lack dental coverage, to qualify for supplemental dental insurance through SCHIP. “Covering more eligible children is not only the right thing to do – it makes good economic sense for taxpayers who will save money by preventing the need for very expensive emergency room care in the future,” pointed out Sires. “In these tough economic times, providing access to health care for more children will hopefully provide peace of mind to the struggling parents in my district and around the country.” ###
01.29.2009	Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 244 to 188... For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 28, 2009 201-222-2828 or 201-918-0033 Washington, D.C. Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 244 to 188. This bill will help stimulate the economy by providing short-term assistance to the unemployed, working families, and state and local governments all of whom face shrinking incomes and rising costs. At the same time the bill focuses on the long term by making investments in education, health care, and infrastructure. “I am proud to vote today for a bill that includes tax relief for my constituents, creates jobs in the transportation and infrastructure sector, helps state and local governments address their budget shortfalls, and stabilizes the economy,” said Congressman Sires. This recovery bill will create 3 to 4 million jobs nationwide and tens of thousands of new jobs in New Jersey. It also provides immediate and direct tax relief for 95 percent of working families, as well as for job-creating small businesses. The investment in transportation and infrastructure is particularly important and will modernize our crumbling infrastructure. The bill makes important investments in education, energy and health care, touching nearly every aspect of the economy to provide immediate economic recovery. Finally, the bill ensures that nearly all of the spending is spent quickly and with full transparency so taxpayers know the money is spent wisely, in a manner that will grow our economy and save money in the long term. “By helping the average American employer and employee with their taxes, we ensure they have income to grow their business and make investments in their future,” said Congressman Sires. “By funding education, science, and improvements in health care and energy, we are ensuring a prosperous future for everyone.” ####
01.28.2009	Washington D.C.- “On Friday, January 23rd, 2009, President Obama issued an executive order repealing the ‘global gag rule’, which banned U.S. funds from being appropriated to family planning organizations overseas..." Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement in response to President Obama’s repeal of the “global gag rule”: “On Friday, January 23rd, 2009, President Obama issued an executive order repealing the ‘global gag rule’, which banned U.S. funds from being appropriated to family planning organizations overseas that either provide or give counsel regarding abortions. Unfortunately, because of the sweeping nature of this policy, the ‘global gag rule’ left women all across the developing world, not only without access to family planning information, but without access to heath care and contraceptives to protect themselves against HIV/AIDS. I believe the issuance of this executive order is positive step towards continuing our global fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS and providing needed health care and counseling to those women that need it most.”
01.14.2009	Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in support of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2009, a bill to reauthorize State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 14, 2009 (201) 222-2828 House passes reauthorization of children’s health insurance program Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in support of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Reauthorization Act of 2009, a bill to reauthorize State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 289 to 139. The Program was originally set to expire last year after President Bush twice vetoed bipartisan bills that would have reauthorized and improved but Congress succeeded last year in temporarily extending the program through March, 2009. Today’s passage of H.R. 2 will reauthorize the program for over 4 and one-half years and make several important changes to serve more needy children. “I am proud to have voted once again to make sure 10 million American children receive the healthcare they need.” H.R. 2 extends health insurance coverage to 4 million additional low income children. This bill extends eligibility to middle-income children whose families cannot afford or qualify for private insurance. In New Jersey, an additional 10,000 children in families with incomes up to approximately $75,000 for a family of four may would qualify for health insurance if this bill is enacted. With rising unemployment, the SCHIP bill has become more critical than ever. When unemployment increases, so do the number of Americans without health insurance. In this recession, more and more American parents are having difficulty finding affordable health insurance for their children making this legislation even more important. “This is a question of providing for our children, not a question of politics. A healthy child does better in school, preparing themselves for a successful life as an adult. It is shameful that we are the only country in the developed world that does not provide health care to all of its children. With passage of this bill, we are one giant step closer to putting us on par with the rest of the developed world.” ###
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C.- Earlier this week, Congressman Sires released a statement regarding the current situation in Gaza and today, cosponsored and voted in support of a resolution expressing the House of Representatives’ support for Israel and concerns about the humanitarian situation in Gaza... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 9, 2009 (201) 222-2828 (Washington D.C.)- Earlier this week, Congressman Sires released a statement regarding the current situation in Gaza and today, cosponsored and voted in support of a resolution expressing the House of Representatives’ support for Israel and concerns about the humanitarian situation in Gaza. This resolution passed the House by a vote of 390 to 5. H.R. 34 recognizes Israel’s right to defend itself against Hamas-led rocket attacks from Gaza and reaffirms the United States’ strong support for Israel. The resolution also expresses strong support for the Israeli-Palestinian peace process ensuring the survival of the State of Israel and ensuring a democratic Palestinian state. “It is my hope that the international community can work together to ensure a ceasefire that is recognized by all in the region. In the interim, we must address the current humanitarian crisis in Gaza inflicted on the Palestinian people due to actions taken by Hamas.” said Congressman Sires. “Having traveled to Israel and seeing the fear on the faces of children and families, we must support every effort towards a peaceful solution to this conflict.” ###
11.26.2008	Jersey City, NJ- Today Congressman Sires attended a press conference with Governor Jon Corzine to announce Corzine’s plan for $2.8 billion in infrastructure improvements... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 26, 2008 (202) 222-2828 (Jersey City, N.J.)- Today Congressman Sires attended a press conference with Governor Jon Corzine to announce Corzine’s plan for $2.8 billion in infrastructure improvements. The state-level infrastructure plan would increase funding to schools, bridges and roads, and also stimulate the economy and create as many as 26,000 jobs. Investing in our infrastructure is critical to enhancing our economy, increasing the number of jobs in the area and improving the quality of life of our constituents. On the Federal level, for every $1 billion spent in transportation infrastructure, 35,000 jobs are created, and long term improvements are made to our nation’s infrastructure. For example, the Hudson Bergen Light Rail has spurred major economic growth in our area and created thousands of permanent jobs. Former industrial sites have been converted into new housing, office buildings, commercial property, and parks – estimated at more than $6 billion worth of new construction. In New Jersey alone, as many as 15,000 additional jobs can be created if a federal economic stimulus package includes money for highway projects. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Sires is fighting to include these vital transportation funds in the economic stimulus legislation. “Infrastructure investments have the power to spur major economic growth; I simply cannot understate their importance to economic development to New Jersey” stated Congressman Sires.
11.13.2008	After a long and tough election year, Congress has serious work to do in the coming months and I look forward to continuing that work as your Representative in the 111th Congress. As you know, Congress recently passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act to help stabilize the credit markets... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey November 10, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Editorial on the Economy After a long and tough election year, Congress has serious work to do in the coming months and I look forward to continuing that work as your Representative in the 111th Congress. As you know, Congress recently passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act to help stabilize the credit markets. As the Treasury Department works to implement these provisions, Congress must turn its attention to economic recovery legislation to stimulate the economy now and ensure stability for working families for the future. Current unemployment rates indicate that people across the economic spectrum are suffering. First, unemployment benefits must be extended, especially in states with high unemployment rates. In August 2008, nearly 264,000 New Jerseyans - 76,000 more than this time last year – were out of work. Unemployment benefits can help stimulate the economy, as every $1 spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.64 in economic demand. However, these benefits must be coupled with job creation. Second, increasing funding for transportation and infrastructure is critical to enhancing our economy. For every $1 billion spent on transportation infrastructure, 35,000 jobs are created across the country. Local projects, such as the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail and Access to the Region’s Core (ARC), spur economic development and job growth throughout our region. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will work to expand transit and rail lines, improve our ports and airports, and make our highways and bridges safer. Third, economic recovery legislation also needs to include help for states and municipalities experiencing stretched budgets. Every dollar invested in our state and local governments, keeps them from having to raise taxes, downsize their workforce or cut crucial services, like health care, public education, and public safety. With so many important services provided by our state and local governments, we must ensure funding so our constituents continue to be served. Fourth, our nation’s energy crisis and the issues currently facing our economy are also related, and we can find solutions to these problems. To grow our country’s economy we need to encourage the development and use of renewable and reliable energy sources here at home. Last year, Congress reauthorized a number of tax incentives to promote clean energy including credits for wind, solar and other renewable energy production, however that was just the first step. The next Congress needs to continue the fight for a comprehensive energy policy that supplies dependable and affordable energy, creates good paying green jobs, and promotes innovation. We must take full advantage of our nation’s renewable resources, while reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Finally, as we look ahead to the 111th Congress, I will continue to work to make sure New Jerseyans are best equipped for the economic challenges they face today by extending unemployment insurance and helping states fund crucial services. I will also work to create a stronger future for New Jerseyans through increased spending on our nation’s infrastructure and renewable energy. By making these investments, we’ll be moving in the right direction to create jobs now and for the future.
10.30.2008	Jersey City, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined fellow Jersey City Congressman Donald Payne, Jersey City Mayor Jeramiah Healy, and various union leaders at a press conference to speak out against the outsourcing of the New Jersey Bulk Mail Center in Jersey City... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 27, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Jersey City, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires joined fellow Jersey City Congressman Donald Payne, Jersey City Mayor Jeramiah Healy, and various union leaders at a press conference to speak out against the outsourcing of the New Jersey Bulk Mail Center in Jersey City. Currently, the United States Postal Service is considering outsourcing all twenty-one Bulk Mail Centers across the country. The NJ Bulk Mail Center located in Jersey City is the largest of these facilities with over 2,400 employees. “The taking of good paying jobs with robust benefits and replacing them with lower-paying jobs with sub-contractors will deeply affect many people in the 13th District and it is something that I am totally against,” concluded Congressman Sires. ###
10.30.2008	Bayonne, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires was on board the Royal Caribbean’s Explorer of the Seas ship, docked at the Cape Liberty Cruise Port, to attend a “Signing Ceremony” for the Port Security New Jersey Emergency Medical Services (NJ EMS) Planning Initiative... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 23, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Bayonne, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires was on board the Royal Caribbean’s Explorer of the Seas ship, docked at the Cape Liberty Cruise Port, to attend a “Signing Ceremony” for the Port Security New Jersey Emergency Medical Services (NJ EMS) Planning Initiative. The Port Security NJ EMS Planning Initiative was created to develop flexible and comprehensive guidelines for New Jersey EMS agencies to follow when responding to large scale incidents involving waterways, water-crossings, and port facilities on the New Jersey side of the New York Harbor. While other mass casualty response plans are in existence, this project’s guidelines are more detailed to ensure greater organization for New Jersey’s EMS when responding to large scale incidents. In addition to the ceremony for the Port Security NJ EMS Planning Initiative, the NJ EMS Task Force also showcased their Homeland Security EMS response equipment. The showcase displayed the existing EMS assets that were incorporated into a “model” response plan for New Jersey’s EMS. Congressman Sires stated, “the 13th District is home to, what is considered by the Department of Homeland Security, as the most dangerous two mile stretch of road in the country. With one of the largest ports in the country (Port Newark/Elizabeth), chemical plants, and critical transportation infrastructure, I commend the NJ EMS Task Force for creating this model plan to ensure the safety of the residents in my district.” ###
10.30.2008	Washington D.C.- At a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Representative Albio Sires urged support for federal investment in public infrastructure to “strengthen our infrastructure, create more jobs, and bolster our economy...” For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 29, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Washington D.C. - At a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Representative Albio Sires urged support for federal investment in public infrastructure to “strengthen our infrastructure, create more jobs, and bolster our economy.” “Infrastructure investments are critical to improving our economy,” Representative Sires said. He noted the explosion of economic growth and development in Hudson County that was spurred by investment in the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail. “With additional investments in our infrastructure, we can slow the increasing unemployment rates in New Jersey and repair our deteriorating infrastructure.” At the hearing, Congressman Jim Oberstar (D-MN) chairman of the committee praised New Jersey’s investment in transit as a “template for America.” Responding to Representative Sires and other members of the Committee, Governor Jon S. Corzine also testified to the importance of infrastructure investment in stimulating our economy. “We need a substantial and timely stimulus package…to include infrastructure investments as a critical element of any Federal effort.” He also added, “that [infrastructure] investments will create jobs, improve safety, reduce congestion and improve long run national productivity.” Though there is currently no scheduled vote on a second stimulus package, Representative Sires is pushing for Congress to increase investment in infrastructure and the renewable energy sector, help local governments to preserve crucial services like health care and education, and extend unemployment benefits to hardworking New Jersyans. ###
10.27.2008	Bayonne, NJ- This past weekend Congressman Albio Sires was in Bayonne to honor two revered residents... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 26, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Bayonne, NJ- This past weekend Congressman Albio Sires was in Bayonne to honor two revered residents. On Saturday October 25, 2008, the Congressman was at the 81st Anniversary of the Bayonne Sicilian Club Annual Dinner Dance to honor former Third Ward Councilman Ben Costanza. Congressman Sires presented Mr. Costanza with a Congressional certificate in honor of his dedication to the community of Bayonne for over 35 years of service. On Sunday October 26, 2008, Congressman Sires attended the 56th Anniversary of the Bayonne Jewish Community Center 2008 Sustaining Dinner. The Center is currently celebrating 56 years of providing essential social services to Bayonne and Hudson County. At the event Congressman Sires presented Mona Paul with a Congressional certificate to honor her dedication to the Bayonne community. Ms. Paul is the current President of the Center and has been a supportive and active member of the Center for over 30 years, including the chair of many events and committees within the Center. “It is an honor to award Mr. Costanza and Ms. Paul for their hard work and dedication to the community of Bayonne,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
10.15.2008	Bayonne, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the Bayonne 8th Street Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (HBLR) station... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 15, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Bayonne, NJ- Today, Congressman Albio Sires attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the Bayonne 8th Street Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (HBLR) station. He was joined by Senator Robert Menendez, as well as several other local and state elected officials. Once built, the station in Bayonne will be the southernmost terminal of the HBLR, extending the twenty-one mile rail line by one mile to West 8th Street. The station will be constructed by the New Jersey Transit to be reminiscent of the historic Central Railroad station that operated in Bayonne for nearly 100 years. The light rail project, expecting to be finished in 2010 at a cost of $58.4 million, comes after years of negotiations, studies, and efforts by local, state, and federal officials to raise revenue for the project. “Since opening eight years ago, the light rail line has benefited Hudson County and the region with its ability to make positive changes in our communities and improvements for our neighborhoods,” stated Congressman Sires. “I am pleased with this latest expansion of the project that will continue to be a boom for economic development and personal mobility in the area.” ###
10.01.2008	Washington D.C.- Today, Congressman Sires applauded the report submitted by the U.S. Government Accountability Office stating that the FAA does not have the authority to auction airport slots... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey October 1, 2008 201-222-2828 Washington D.C. - Today, Congressman Sires applauded the report submitted by the U.S. Government Accountability Office stating that the FAA does not have the authority to auction airport slots. The Department of Transportation and FAA are planning to auction off arrival and departure times at Newark Liberty International Airport as well as JFK and LaGuardia airports in New York. The existing plan would require carriers to give up 10 percent of their slots, increase ticket prices and reduce service to small communities. Despite record high fuel prices the American traveler is not only feeling cost increases at the pump but also at the airport with increased tickets prices. The DOT and FAA’s plan will undercut the economic welfare of communities throughout New Jersey. “I am pleased with the report issued today by the Government Accountability Office (GOA) and remain committed along with my colleagues to stop the United States Department of Transportation and FAA’s proposal,” stated Congressman Sires. “ I believe it is wrong to raises prices for everyone by creating an untested and unauthorized scheme, particularly during this economy.”
09.30.2008	(Washington D.C.)- Powerful Washington leader arrives Tuesday to see County’s infrastructure needs hosted by U.S. Rep. Albio Sires and County Executive Tom DeGise... For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 30, 2008 Contact: Erica Daughtrey (201) 222-2828 Powerful Washington leader arrives Tuesday to see County’s infrastructure needs hosted by U.S. Rep. Albio Sires and County Executive Tom DeGise (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ, 13th Dist.) knows that sometimes you have to see it to believe it, so he invited Representative Jim Oberstar, Chairman of the powerful Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on Tuesday, September 30, 2008 to visit the district. Congressman Sires, along with Hudson County Executive Thomas DeGise and Jersey City Mayor Jerramiah Healy hosted a daylong tour of Hudson County’s infrastructure needs for the key member of Congress “I am honored Chairman Oberstar decided to join us for a tour that offered a truly three-dimensional perspective on the needs of Hudson County and showcased its unique role in the success of the New York-New Jersey metropolitan area,” said Congressman Sires. Sires, DeGise and Healy were joined by Kris Kolluri NJ Commissioner of Transportation, Anthony Coscia Chairman PA NY/NJ, Richard Sarles Executive Director NJ Transit and Hudson County State Senator’s Nicholas Sacco, Brian P Stack and Sandra Bolden Cunningham. The tour began at the County’s southern tip in Bayonne and included a visit to the 8th Street and 22nd Street Hudson-Bergen Light Rail (HBLR) Stations. The leaders then boarded the HBLR to the Exchange Place Light Station in Jersey City where they held a press conference discussing the transportation and infrastructure needs of Hudson County. Emphasis was on the extension of the light rail in Jersey City and North Hudson, on improvements needed to several bridges and major road networks throughout Hudson County and the ARC Tunnel (Access to the Region’s Core) project. After the press conference, the leaders rode the HBLR to the Westside Ave Station and discussed Jersey City’s proposed Rt. 440 extension and rode north to visit stations in Union City and North Bergen to discuss the northern extension to Secaucus and the Meadowlands Sports Complex/ Xanadu Entertainment Center. “Chairman Oberstar saw firsthand how effectively Hudson County converts transportation and infrastructure investment into economic and community redevelopment,” said County Executive Thomas DeGise. Mayor Healy further added, “Mass transportation has played a vital role in the development of Jersey City and Hudson County, and our city would not be what it is today without the Light Rail along our waterfront. This system has spurred the development of more than 10,000 new housing units, created thousands of jobs and increased property value in excess of $5 billion.” “In this period of financial turmoil, we can create jobs and ensure New Jersey’s future economic vitality by investing in our transportation infrastructure,” said Commissioner Kris Kolluri. “Congressman Oberstar’s visit to New Jersey reflects his dedication to improving the nation’s aging infrastructure and supporting critical transportation projects in our region.” “This visit also underscores the national importance of the ARC tunnel project, which will significantly expand the region’s mass transit capacity and reduce congestion on our trans-Hudson crossings,” said Chairman Anthony Coscia. “ “We are thankful for the leadership of Congressman Sires who has been a true champion for transit investments on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,” said Executive Director Richard Sarles. “With record high ridership, New Jersey’s transportation network is benefiting from these investments, and we appreciate Chairman Oberstar’s interest in seeing our system firsthand.” Representative Sires serves as a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. On the Transportation Committee he serves on the Highways and Transit Subcommittee and the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. Prior to entering the House in 2007, he served as mayor of West New York, New Jersey and as the Speaker of the General Assembly of the New Jersey State Legislature. (####)
09.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced it will allocate a total of $3.92 billion to states and particular communities hit hard by the effects of the foreclosure crisis... For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 26, 2008 Contact: Erica Daughtrey (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced it will allocate a total of $3.92 billion to states and particular communities hit hard by the effects of the foreclosure crisis. Specifically, $2,153,431 was given to Jersey City, $3,406,849 to Newark, and $2,601,755 to Union County. The state of New Jersey will receive $51,470,620 that can be used in other communities across the state as well. The grants will be provided through the Department’s Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) which targets emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties that might, if left alone, become sources of abandonment within their communities. “This grant comes at a critical time for our communities in New Jersey.This money will bring them the help they need to stabilize their neighborhoods and rebuild,” stated Congressman Sires. In particular, state and local governments will be able to use their neighborhood stabilization grants to acquire land and property; to demolish or rehabilitate abandoned properties; and/or to offer down payment and closing cost assistance to low-to moderate-income homebuyers. Communities, like Jersey City, Newark, and Union County were chosen by HUD because of the alarming rate of the number/percent of foreclosures, subprime mortgages and mortgage defaults and delinquencies. “The housing crisis has unfortunately hit the 13th District severely. In addition to providing the necessary relief needed now to New Jersey homeowners, I’m pleased to see that the NSP will also seek to prevent future foreclosures by requiring housing counseling for families receiving homebuyer assistance,” concluded Congressman Sires. (####)
09.25.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires voted for legislation that will fund the government until March 6, 2008, provides support to low-income women and families, tax relief for the middle class, health care for our veterans, pay increases for our troops, and increased funding to ensure the security of our airports and ports... For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 24, 2008 Contact: Erica Daughtrey (201) 222-2828 House passes Continuing Resolution and the Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires voted for legislation that will fund the government until March 6, 2008, provides support to low-income women and families, tax relief for the middle class, health care for our veterans, pay increases for our troops, and increased funding to ensure the security of our airports and ports. The House passed the House amendments to Senate amendments to H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance and Continuing Appropriations Act, which will continue funding the federal government through March 6, 2009, designates funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), and grant money for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program from Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Additionally, it provides funding for three 2009 appropriations bills: Defense, Military Construction and Veterans’ Affairs, and Homeland Security. This legislation gives a 3.9 percent pay increase to our nation’s military personnel and provides $41 billion for VA health programs, 10 percent more that the President’s request. Funding is also included to improve cargo container screening at our nation’s ports and $4.75 billion to increase aviation security at airports around the country. “I am so proud that we were able to pass bi-partisan legislation to help low-income New Jersey families heat their homes this winter, that our veterans will continue to receive the health care they were promised, and that our troops serving our country at home and abroad will receive a much needed pay increase,” said Congressman Sires. “This bill also goes a long way towards making us more secure at home by improving security at our ports and airports in New Jersey, and around the nation.” H.R. 7005, the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) Relief Act, was also passed by the House on September 24, 2008. This bill provides a one-year “patch” that would prevent more than 20 million taxpayers from being hit by the AMT on their 2008 tax returns. “This Congress came together to ensure that middle class Americans in New Jersey and all over this country would not be subjected to the AMT,” said Congressman Sires. “This patch is important to so many of my constituents and I’m pleased the House acted so quickly before adjourning this year to ensure our families get the relief they need.” (####)
09.25.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the City of Union City will receive a $268,305 grant to create a summer youth program for the next three summers for the youth of the city... For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 24, 2008 Contact: Erica Daughtrey (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the City of Union City will receive a $268,305 grant to create a summer youth program for the next three summers for the youth of the city. The funding was awarded by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 2002 as part of the Union City’s initiative against violence. “As we have seen violence increase throughout the nation and in densely populated areas like Hudson County programs like these provide young people with an alternative,” said Congressman Sires. “Our youth must address numerous pitfalls on a daily basis like poverty, drug and alcohol use, and limited anger management skills, which often turns young people into willing candidates for gang recruitment." The City of Union City plans on creating a summer program that will include sports, arts, field trips and a Junior Police Academy with a strong emphasis on mentoring and adult presence. This program will complement existing programs providing comprehensive academic enrichment and counseling programs provided by the Union City Board of Education. (####)
09.19.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - This week Congressman Albio Sires voted for a comprehensive energy package, for H.R. 6899, to expand our domestic oil supply and ensure a clean, green future through energy efficiency and conservation... For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 18, 2008 Contact: Erica Daughtrey (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - This week Congressman Albio Sires voted for a comprehensive energy package, for H.R. 6899, to expand our domestic oil supply and ensure a clean, green future through energy efficiency and conservation. This package reaffirmed America’s commitment to renewable energy and the creation of millions of green jobs. In addition, to passing H.R. 6899, the U.S. House of Representatives took another step in protecting consumers from high energy costs by passing H.R. 6604, The Commodity Markets Transparency and Accountability Act of 2008, on September 18, 2008 by a vote of 238 to 133. "This legislation will lower energy costs by curbing excessive speculation in the energy futures markets. Currently, there is a loophole in the law that exempts all energy futures trading from oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, resulting in excessive speculation that some have blamed for soaring oil prices over the past year.,” said Congressman Sires. "I'm glad we were able to pass H.R. 6604 because this bill is a critical step towards better protecting consumers and lowering energy costs.” The Commodity Markets Transparency and Accountability Act of 2008 would take the necessary steps to close this specific loophole and bring transparency to commodities and futures market by providing the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with the authority to oversee off-shore trading. In order to control the distortion of prices in the futures market the Commodity Futures Trading Commission will be permitted to limit the size of stake each speculative investor can hold in a given market, including foreign boards of trade. Additionally, this bill would strengthen enforcement to prevent market manipulation by requiring the CFTC to increase its number of employees to help enforce regulations. (####)
09.05.2008	Jersey City, NJ – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) awarded Jersey City, NJ with a grant of $75,000 today to fund the hiring of one new police officer in the community... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey September 5, 2008 (201) 222-2828 Jersey City, NJ – Today, Congressman Sires announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) awarded Jersey City, NJ with a grant of $75,000 today to fund the hiring of one new police officer in the community. Nationwide, the COPS program provided nearly $20 million in awards under the COPS Universal Hiring Program. The COPS Universal Hiring Program award provides Jersey City with 75 percent of the total salary and benefits necessary to hire a new officer for three years. In return, Jersey City will pay the remaining 25 percent, and the city agrees to retain the COPS position for at least one year beyond the funding period. “As a strong supporter of COPS, I believe these grants are an excellent way to increase policing capacity and make our communities safer,” said Congressman Sires. “I am extremely pleased that the Department of Justice has recognized the needs of Jersey City with this award.” ###
07.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) attended the unveiling of a portrait of Congresswoman Mary T. Norton... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 25, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) attended the unveiling of a portrait of Congresswoman Mary T. Norton. After being found in storage, the portrait now rightfully hangs in the House Committee on Education and Labor’s hearing room. Congresswoman Norton was one of the first women to be elected to and serve in the United States Congress. She began her social activism in Jersey City, New Jersey and quickly became the first female member of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee. She was then elected to the House of Representatives for the 12th Congressional District in New Jersey in 1924. During her time in Congress, Norton was the first woman to chair a major committee. One of the Congresswoman’s most accomplished moments came while she was Chair of the Labor Committee in 1938 when the House passed the Fair Labor Standards Act. Despite much opposition to what was, at the time, a controversial bill, the House passed the final version of the legislation by a vote of 314 to 97. The Fair Labor Standards Act was later signed into law by President Roosevelt on June 25, 1938. The Fair Labor Standards Act plays a significant role in our history. It is the formative legislation for the labor rights that we take for granted today- minimum wage, overtime pay, and child labor laws. This law has improved the quality of life for so many workers in our country. “Congresswoman Norton was a champion for the American worker and played an integral role in passing critical legislation that would shape our nation for years to come,” stated Congressman Sires. “It is an honor for me to serve the 13th Congressional District where Congresswoman Norton first began her journey as an activist for the people, not just in her district, but throughout the country,” added Congressman Sires. ###
07.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) supported the National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act of 2008 that amends the Highway Bridge Program and the National Bridge Inspection Program to improve the safety of Federal-aid highway bridges... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 24, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) supported the National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act of 2008 that amends the Highway Bridge Program and the National Bridge Inspection Program to improve the safety of Federal-aid highway bridges. This bill strengthens bridge inspection standards and processes and will also increase investment in the reconstruction of structurally deficient bridges on the National Highway System. The National Highway and Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act of 2008 (H.R. 3999) will require a system to be developed to assign a risk-based priority to repair, rehabilitate, or replace each structurally deficient or functionally obsolete bridge. It will establish a new level of accountability in bridge repair and replacement by requiring that bridges that are the most critical to safety are upgraded and inspected more frequently. The bill passed in the House of Representatives on July 24, 2008 with overwhelming support, and now will be sent for consideration in the Senate. The 13th Congressional is highly impacted by the structural integrity of its bridges. They provide the necessary infrastructure to support one of the largest ports in the US with more than 25 million tons of cargo moving through the ports each year. These bridges serve millions of people who travel on them in-state and to and from New York City each year. “In response to the tragic I-35-W bridge collapse in Minneapolis, Minnesota, I am proud to say New Jersey undertook an extensive review of bridges and identified the improvements required to bring all of the state’s bridges to a state of good repair” stated Congressman Sires. “This bill helps to further that initiative and increase the safety of our bridges”, added Congressman Sires. ###
07.22.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation that would help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future and help the economic recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught in the foreclosure process... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 23, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation that would help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future and help the economic recovery of communities harmed by empty homes caught in the foreclosure process. By a vote of 272 to 152, the House passed the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221), which aims to increase consumer spending in the mortgage market by creating a new standard deduction for state and local real estate taxes paid for those who do not itemize and it provides a refundable tax credit for first- time home buy. It also provides mortgage refinancing assistance to keep at least 400,000 families from losing their homes and protects neighboring home values while stabilizing the housing market at no cost to American taxpayers. This bill will provide assistance to all who are looking for a place to call home. It doesn’t forget those who are less fortunate; those who cannot afford to buy a home. The permanent Affordable Housing Trust Fund will ensure that all Americans have access to a safe and stable place to call home, even those who rent. “This bill also helps those who are looking to buy a home. By bolstering the ability of the F-H-A to guarantee more mortgages, many more credit worthy and deserving Americans will be able to become homeowners.” said Congressman Sires. In addition, by strengthening and consolidating existing regulatory authority and giving Treasury Department new authority, the American taxpayer can have faith that they will not have to bear the weight of future housing financing problems. “I support H.R. 3221 because it will directly assist many and I believe it will strengthen our economy, helping everyone else”, Congressman Sires added. ###
07.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires’ legislation that would improve the way public housing properties are managed was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a voice vote with no opposition... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey July 9, 2008 (201) 222-2828 Bill would correct regulatory problems that led to layoffs in the 13th district Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Albio Sires’ legislation that would improve the way public housing properties are managed was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a voice vote with no opposition. H.R. 6216, the Asset Management Improvement Act, would make improvements to a regulation issued by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development that resulted in layoffs at Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) across the country. “Asset Management can be a valuable tool that could help Public Housing Authorities operate more efficiently,” said Congressman Sires. “Unfortunately, the Department’s implementation was flawed and resulted in under funding and ultimately a loss of jobs in my district at the Jersey City Housing Authority and across the country. This legislation would correct these flaws, protecting jobs and providing flexibility.” H.R. 6216 would make a number of changes. First, it would exempt PHAs with fewer than 500 units from implementing asset management if they decide it would not be beneficial to their properties. This bill recognizes that small PHAs have few properties, resources, and staff, and see no economical or efficiency improvements from implementing the system. Second, it would require the Department and public housing advocates to renegotiate the funding formula for the operating fund. Doing so will correct an error in the formula used by HUD that currently under funds some agencies by as much as 42 percent. Third, H.R. 6216 would restore the ability of PHAs to operate more efficiently by allowing them to move small amounts of funding between capital and operating funds to meet emerging needs. Fourth, the bill recognizes that tenants must play a role in the implementation of asset management by requiring the Department to consider tenant participation when issuing any regulation or guidance on asset management. It also allows PHAs to evict tenants who use an illegal weapon while on public housing property. “I am very happy that my colleagues understood that my bill would make for better housing, more efficient operations, and a less costly program for taxpayers. My bill would provide regulatory relief and flexible funding,” said Sires. “I believe this will ultimately result in a better life for the residents of public housing.” ###
06.26.2008	(Washington D.C.)- On July 1, 2008 good news will come for college students and their families as new financial aid benefits enacted last year will begin to kick in for the 2008-2009 school year... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 27, 2008 (202) 222-2828 (Washington D.C.)- On July 1, 2008 good news will come for college students and their families as new financial aid benefits enacted last year will begin to kick in for the 2008-2009 school year. Currently, there are 6.8 million students who borrow need-based federal student loans each year. They are struggling with the rising costs of higher education and are faced with the need for more loan debt. Since 2001, tuition and fees have increased by 47 percent at public universities and by 23 percent at private universities after inflation. “New Jersey alone has more than 61,000 students who take out need-based loans each year at 4 year public schools and who typically carry a debt of $14,367,” Congressman Sires stated. In September 2007, to make college more affordable for low-and-middle income students and their families, Congress enacted the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (PL 110-84). This law provides more than $20 billion in federal student aid over the next five years and ensures that interest rates on need-based (subsidized) federal student loans will drop from 6.8 percent to 6.0 percent on July 1st. This is the beginning step towards cutting interest rates in half between now and 2011, when they will reach 3.4 percent. In addition to cutting interest rates, the College Cost Reduction Act will increase the Pell Grant scholarship by $490 a year and provide up-front tuition assistance of $4,000 each year for students who commit to teaching high-need subjects in high-need public schools. Once fully phased in, this law would save the typical college borrower, with $13,800 in subsidized federal student loan debt, approximately $4,400 over the life of the loan and New Jersey students would save on average $4,600; since New Jersey students have more debt they will benefit more from this law. “Every student, no matter their income bracket, deserves the opportunity for an affordable education. Cutting interest rates on need-based loans will alleviate the burden of expensive student loans for students and families working hard to pay for college and it will help prepare our students for a brighter future,” stated Congressman Sires. ###
06.11.2008	Washington D.C.- Today, by a vote of 274-137, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act, to provide immediate relief to 3.8 million unemployed workers whom continue to struggle to find work in the slowing economy. For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 12, 2008 (202) 222-2828 Washington D.C.- Today, by a vote of 274-137, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5749, the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act, to provide immediate relief to 3.8 million unemployed workers whom continue to struggle to find work in the slowing economy. Recently, the nation experienced the biggest one-month jump in the unemployment rate in more than two decades, rising from 5.0 percent to 5.5 percent and is now an entire percentage point higher than a year ago. Americans have been losing jobs in each of the past fives months, with the number of unemployed now at 3.8 million. The airline and automobile industries alone have laid off over 50,000 employees combined. “The current high levels of unemployment have only added to the struggles of the U.S. economy by thousands more Americans to those having a hard time making ends meet,” stated Congressman Sires. H.R. 5749 will provide a temporary 13 week extension of unemployment benefits to all states that exhaust the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. This bill will also provide an additional 13 weeks for states whose unemployment rate is higher than six percent. The extended benefits will be provided through March 2009 and, according to the Congressional Budget Office, would benefit 3.8 million Americans. H.R. 5749 is necessary to provide our economy with the relief it needs. Extending these benefits is an efficient and quick way to support our country’s workers and invigorate the economy. “My Democratic colleagues and I are committed to providing the much needed relief to the millions of unemployed workers, whom in the face of rising gas and food costs continue to struggle to support themselves and their families,” concluded Congressman Sires. ###
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON D.C.- On June 11, 2008 the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, to reauthorize Amtrak and improve intercity passenger rail services... For immediate release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 11, 2008 (202) 222-2828 WASHINGTON D.C.- On June 11, 2008 the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6003, the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, to reauthorize Amtrak and improve intercity passenger rail services with a veto proof margin of 311-104. “Today we are in the midst of a national revival for intercity passenger rail and there has never been a greater need for rail services as gas prices and highway and air travel congestion continue to increase,” stated Congressman Sires. Amtrak ridership rose to record levels for the fifth year in a row, exceeding 25.8 million passengers in 2007. Ticket sales also experienced revenue growth for the third year in a row to more than $1.5 billion. H.R. 6003 will assist Amtrak and states with the opportunity to grow their intercity passenger rail services, which in turn will give Americans more affordable and sustainable choices. In particular, H.R. 6003 would authorize $14.4 billion over the next five years for Amtrak capital and operating grants, intercity passenger grants, and high-speed rail. Approximately $4.2 billion will be provided to Amtrak in capital grants that will assist in many important maintenance and projects aimed to increase service reliability and on-time performance. A new State Capital Grant program will also be created for intercity passenger rail capital projects to encourage State investment in intercity passenger rail routes. In addition, funds will be granted to establish high-speed rail corridors between cities to improve interconnectivity across different regions of the U.S. If signed into law, this will be the first Amtrak reauthorization in more than a decade. “In addition to providing the capital and resources necessary to bringing the American rail system into the 21st Century, this legislation will meet the growing demand for a more cost-efficient and environmentally friendly means of transportation,” concluded Congressman Sires. ###
06.05.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation that would help renovate and modernize public schools in New Jersey and around the country. Bill Would Also Revive Struggling Construction Industry, Fight Global Warming, and Improve Education For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey June 6, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation that would help renovate and modernize public schools in New Jersey and around the country. By a vote of 250 to 164, the House passed the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act (H.R. 3021), which provides funding to states and school districts to help ensure that school facilities and learning environments are safe, healthy, energy-efficient, environmentally friendly, and technologically advanced. The legislation includes $132 million in funding for physical improvement projects for New Jersey's schools. "According to recent estimates, America's public schools are hundreds of billions of dollars short of the funding needed to bring them into good condition." said Congressman Sires. While Congress provided $1.2 billion in funding for emergency school repairs in 2001, and provided additional resources for schools devastated by Hurricane Katrina and Rita, the Bush administration has not provided direct funding for general school construction in any of its budgets over the last eight years. As a result, schools have been forced to rely mostly on state and local funding for any repair or renovation projects. Overall, H.R. 3021 would authorize $6.4 billion for school renovation and modernization projects for fiscal year 2009, and would ensure that school districts quickly receive funds for projects that improve schools' teaching and learning climates, health and safety, and energy efficiency. To further encourage energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources in schools, the bill would require that the majority of funds for school improvement projects meet widely recognized green building standards and would provide states with funds to help schools track their facilities' needs, energy use, and carbon footprints, among other things. "I supported this bill because I believe it will help improve education, the economy and the environment which is a clear win for children, workers and the planet", Congressman Sires added. In addition, the legislation would bring immediate benefits to workers in the nation's construction industry - one of the sectors hit hardest by the recent economic downturn - and would ensure fair wages and benefits for workers by applying Davis-Bacon protections to all grants awarded for school improvement projects. (####)
05.14.2008	Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Albio Sires voted for a bipartisan Farm Bill that will strengthen American agriculture, help families facing high food costs and makes a substantial commitment to land conservation and energy independence. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 15, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Rep. Albio Sires voted for a bipartisan Farm Bill that will strengthen American agriculture, help families facing high food costs and makes a substantial commitment to land conservation and energy independence. Officially titled the Farm, Nutrition, and Bio-energy Act, the legislation passed by a vote of 318-106 on Wednesday, May 14, 2008. "With food prices soaring, consumers need all the help they can get," said Sires. "The new farm bill will help families having the hardest time making ends meet while increasing our conservation efforts so that our environment is protected." Nearly three-quarters of the Farm Bill will support the domestic nutrition programs that allow 38 million households to purchase food. The updates to the food stamp program, renamed as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, will increase program participation by about 11 million people by 2012. The bill will also provide much-needed support to food banks, food pantries, and soup kitchens by increasing funding for The Emergency Food Assistance Program, or TEFAP, by $1.25 billion - with $50 million for immediate shortages at food pantries. Additionally, the bill helps schools provide healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion for free fresh fruits and vegetables. To encourage conservation efforts, the Farm Bill boosts conservation programs that reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, increase wildlife habitat and reduce damage caused by floods and other natural disasters by $7.9 million. This bill strengthens our energy independence. The Farm Bill invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources. It takes another critical step by transitioning bio-fuels beyond corn to non-food crops and sources such as switch grass, woodchips and corn stalks. Finally, the legislation also begins to end payments to farmers who don't need the help, with the most significant reforms in over 30 years. The Farm Bill reduces direct farm payments by $300 million and cuts federal payments to crop insurance companies that are making windfall profits due to higher crop prices by $5.7 billion. (####)
05.05.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) sponsored a resolution, which passed the House of Representatives on May 6, 2008, honoring Mr. Dith Pran who was a survivor of the Cambodian genocide and life-long human rights advocate. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey May 6, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) sponsored a resolution, which passed the House of Representatives on May 6, 2008, honoring Mr. Dith Pran who was a survivor of the Cambodian genocide and life-long human rights advocate. On March 30, 2008, Mr. Dith, a photojournalist for the New York Times and resident of Woodbridge, NJ, passed away at the age of 65. "He was a resident of my district, and after fleeing Cambodia in 1979, he devoted his life to speaking out against genocide and helping to find justice for all victims of genocide through his advocacy," said Congressman Sires. In the early 1970's Mr. Dith was hired as a guide and interpreter by Syndey H. Schanberg of the New York Times. The friendship and partnership that developed between the two became the basis for the 1984 film, "The Killing Fields", which helped bring to light the brutality perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge from 1975 to 1979 under Pol Pot. In 1985, Mr. Dith became a U.S. citizen and a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for the Refugees, and in 1994 he worked with the former Senator Charles Robb to help pass the Cambodian Genocide Justice Act establishing an Office of Cambodian Genocide Investigations at the State Department. "This resolution is to recognize the strength and courage of an ordinary man that lived an extraordinary life," said Congressman Sires. "And, to honor Mr. Dith's commitment to raising awareness about the atrocities that took place under the Khmer Rouge, so the world would never forget." (####)
04.21.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, the United States House of Representatives celebrated Earth Day and recognized the importance of this day and the importance of protecting the planet by passing H.Res. 1117. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey April 22, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, the United States House of Representatives celebrated Earth Day and recognized the importance of this day and the importance of protecting the planet by passing H.Res. 1117. Thirty-eight years ago, through the efforts of Senator Gaylord Nelson, Earth Day was created in order to increase knowledge of critical environmental concerns and encourage action to face the challenges of preservation and pollution. In addition to recognizing Earth Day, H.Res. 1117, encourages the Department of Energy to step up its efforts in research, development, and demonstration of renewable energy technology and energy conservation techniques and calls for all sectors of society to work together to ensure that the research and development necessary to uncover solutions to our major environmental problems occurs efficiently and effectively. "More and more the topics of past Earth Day celebrations have become our everyday concerns," stated Congressman Sires. "Each day we are increasingly aware of the need to find renewable energy sources, as gas prices and air pollution soar. Each day we are faced with the impending extinction of plants and animals throughout the world. And each day Congress is working to help lead the nation towards a brighter and cleaner future." The 110th Congress has taken many steps to address the global warming crisis. "My colleagues and I are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting renewable energy for the future," stated Congressman Sires. By focusing on expanding the production of clean, alternative energy and reducing the dependence on oil, the country can reduce global warming, create green jobs, and spur economic growth. "As we celebrate Earth Day, and our accomplishments thus far, it is important to note that much is yet to be done. We must continue to support an efficient economy and seek out clean solutions to our energy needs," concluded Congressman Sires. (####)
03.06.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced his opposition to the large package of anti-immigration legislation introduced yesterday by a group of Republican Senators. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 7, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires announced his opposition to the large package of anti-immigration legislation introduced yesterday by a group of Republican Senators. There are fourteen bills in total, which focus on enforcement-only initiatives. "This action by the Senate is inadequate and unacceptable in its attempts to deal with the complicated immigration situation," said Congressman Sires. "While it is obvious that the current immigration system in the United States is broken and in need of reform, comprehensive immigration reform is essential to addressing the numerous problems facing our country, including requiring that those who are not here legally become legal," added Sires. Congressman Sires continues to stand behind comprehensive immigration reform and will work with his colleagues in Congress to achieve the necessary reform. "With an estimated 12 million undocumented immigrants, any immigration reform package must include a process that offers hard working, law abiding immigrants a path to become legal. Focusing solely on enforcement-only policies does not address the problems at hand. We must protect our borders, increase worker verification programs and enforce strict penalties to employers who knowingly violate the law; but we must also ensure that families remain together and that our economy has the stable and secure workforce it needs." stated Congressman Sires. The Senate could begin consideration of any of these various bills as early as next week. Congressman Sires strongly opposes the legislation and urges his colleagues to do the same. (####)
03.02.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires condemned the decision of Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, and Ecuador's president, Rafael Correa, to militarize their borders with Colombia. For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey March 3, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires condemned the decision of Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, and Ecuador's president, Rafael Correa, to militarize their borders with Colombia. On Sunday, March 2, 2008, President Chavez and President Correa began militarizing their countries' borders with Colombia in reaction to Colombia's raid on the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), including the killing of a top rebel leader, Raul Reyes, across the Ecuadorian border. "This is just the most recent action in Chavez' attempt to destabilize the region and enflame the already difficult situation facing Colombia as it fights against the destructive guerilla groups, such as the FARC. The situation unfolding in the Andean region must be watched closely, and Chavez's interference must be seen as a serious threat to security and partnership in the region," stated Congressman Sires. The Congressman added, "I am deeply concerned with Chavez's escalating military threats in the region, and I am alarmed to hear reports that President Correa may have a relationship with the FARC." Congressman Sires also sent a letter to Secretary Rice asking the U.S. State Department to condemn the actions of President Chavez and President Correa and support Colombia. In addition, Congressman Sires sent a letter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs Acting Chairman Berman and Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere Chairman Engel asking that the Committee on Foreign Affairs hold a hearing in order to discuss the irresponsible actions and destabilizing efforts of President Chavez. He also requests that his colleagues in Congress stand behind Colombia. (####)
02.06.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation to address the soaring price of college tuition and to remove other obstacles that make it harder for qualified students to go to college. House Passes H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey February 7, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) today voted for legislation to address the soaring price of college tuition and to remove other obstacles that make it harder for qualified students to go to college. The House in a bipartisan vote approved the College Opportunity and Affordability Act (H.R. 4137), which would reform and strengthen the nation's higher education programs to ensure that they operate in the best interests of students and families. The Act would streamline the application process for federal student aid, strengthen college readiness and support programs for minority and lower income students, and increase college aid for veterans and military families. The legislation is the second major step that the Democratic Congress has taken to make college more affordable and accessible for all qualified students. Last year, Congress enacted into law a $20 billion increase in college financial aid over the next five years, the largest increase in student aid since the G.I. Bill of 1944. "We continue to work on behalf of the American people to make sure that all Americans have the opportunity to attend college. Monetary considerations should not be the determining factor of who does and doesn't pursue a higher degree," said Sires. The bill would address these rising prices by encouraging colleges to rein in price increases, ensuring that states maintain their commitments to higher education funding, and providing students and families with consumer friendly information on college pricing and the factors driving tuition increases. "Families need to be able to access all the information about the costs of attending college to be able to make informed decisions about seeking an advanced degree," said Sires. (####)
01.13.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Tomorrow, Congressman Sires will receive the Outstanding American by Choice Award from Director Emilio González, of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). For Immediate Release Contact: Erica Daughtrey January 14, 2008 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Tomorrow, Congressman Sires will receive the Outstanding American by Choice Award from Director Emilio González, of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services created the Outstanding American by Choice Award to recognize the exceptional achievements of naturalized U.S. citizens. Recipients of this honor display extraordinary civic and professional achievement and leadership while embodying the values and ideals inherent to our country. "I am very pleased to participate in this ceremony designed to recognize the magnitude of immigrant contributions to our wonderful country. I am truly honored to receive this award," said Congressman Sires. Congressman Sires was born in 1951 in the Cuban town of Bejucal, where he grew up in the waning years of pre-Communist Cuba. His family left Cuba in January 1962, with the help of relatives in America, and eventually settled in West New York. In 2006, Congressman Albio Sires, was elected to serve the 13th Congressional District of New Jersey in the United States House of Representatives. Previously Congressman Sires has served as New Jersey Speaker of the General Assembly and has been the Mayor of the Town of West New York in Hudson County from 1995 to 2006. Albio Sires is the first legislator of Hispanic origin to be named Assembly Speaker. "Over forty years ago, I emigrated from Cuba with my family in search of a better life. I could never have envisioned at that time that I would receive this honor," said Congressman Sires. "I could never have envisioned that through hard work, not only would I become a proud citizen of the United States, but I would reach a position capable of helping other citizens realize their own American dreams." During each year, through the Outstanding American by Choice initiative, USCIS Director Emilio González recognizes naturalized citizens who have made significant contributions to both their community and their adopted country. Tomorrow's ceremony will also recognize Congressman Pete Hoekstra, Anh Duong, Science Advisor at The Pentagon, Major General John Fugh, 33rd JAG of the U.S. Army, and Duncan Wardle, Vice President at Walt Disney Parks and Resorts with the award, and several immigrants will be naturalized as U.S. citizens. As part of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Unites States Citizenship and Immigration Services carries out federal immigration polices, including the naturalization services. DHS Deputy Secretary Paul Schneider will also be on hand to honor the recipients. (####)
11.13.2007	The Department of Defense Appropriations bill signed today by the President includes funding for security systems and the redevelopment of former military installations For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez November 14, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires secured funding for programs that will increase security and redevelop military infrastructure located in the 13th Congressional District. Funding for the Security for Critical Communications Network (SCCN) program and the Ship Repair Facility at the Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, New Jersey was included in the final conference report for H.R. 3332, the Fiscal Year 2008 Department of Defense (DOD) Appropriations bill. The conference report was signed into law on November 14, 2007 by President Bush. "I am pleased that I was able to secure funding that will assist the Stevens Institute of Technology in reinforcing our national security," said Congressman Sires. "This funding is vital to our ongoing mission of keeping America safe. I am proud that our congressional district is home to the men and women who design and implement innovative security systems and preserve valuable military resources. Furthermore, the funding for Bayonne will help the redevelopment efforts of the former military base." Congressman Sires was able to secure $2.4 million in funding for SCCN, included in the final conference report for FY 2008 DOD Appropriations. This defense-wide research and development project at the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey works to address pressing needs at the Department of Defense and to secure them against digital communication vulnerabilities in global computer networks. The system works to identify threats buried in data, as well as clandestine threats appearing in wireless networks. In addition, funding was also secured by Congressman Sires for the Ship Repair Facility at the Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, New Jersey. The Local Redevelopment Authority of Bayonne will receive $8 million to replace 1,900 feet of failing bulkheads that stabilize the ship repair facility's shoreline, and ensure the structural integrity of the facility's dry dock. The project will also construct two access bridges to the ship repair facility's functioning deep water berth, and carry out face repairs to the facility's adjoining S-1 berth. The final conference report for the FY 2008 DOD Appropriations included funding for department operations, as well as a 3.5 percent pay raise for our troops. The bill also strengthens healthcare for our wounded soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, and provides support to military families through upgrades to army facilities. This includes barracks, child care facilities, and community services at bases throughout the United States, Europe, and Korea. (####)
11.13.2007	Conference report ensures transportation infrastructure improvements and economic development in the13th District For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez November 14, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations conference report, which includes funding that will ensure the safety and security of thousands of passengers and pedestrians in New Jersey's 13th congressional district. The agreement reached by the House and the Senate was approved by a vote of 270-147. "The projects that I was able to include in this conference report are timely and necessary," said Congressman Sires. "Transportation is an essential part of the lives of working families that need to commute safely and know that our transportation infrastructure is sound. This funding also provides safety for thousands of pedestrians that would otherwise be at risk of injury by vehicular traffic." H.R. 3074 includes: $300,000 for the construction of the Hudson County Intermodal Station Pedestrian Bridge in Union City; $1 million for improvements to Essex County bridges including Bridge Street, Clay Street and Jackson Street bridges; $268,000 for the redevelopment of the Koppers Coke Brownfield Site in Kearny; $55 million for the construction of the Hudson Bergen Light Rail; $15 million for the construction of the NJ Trans-Hudson Midtown Corridor Tunnel. H. R. 3074 includes more than $40 billion for the construction of new roads, repairs, and addresses deficient bridges across America. This bill also renews all current housing vouchers and provides 15,500 new vouchers for veterans, the disabled and low income families. A 500 percent increase in funds also aims to alleviate problems caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis. H.R. 3074, the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, will now go to the president's desk for his signature. (####)
10.31.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez November 1, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that North Hudson Fire and Rescue will receive a grant in the amount of $144,000. The funding was awarded by the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighter Grants Program, designed to strengthen the level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire related hazards. The award aims to enhance first responder ability to protect the health and safety of residents and first responder personnel. "This grant will further ensure the outstanding performance of the members of the North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue, a successful merger of fire departments that respond to emergencies in 5 municipalities in northern Hudson County," said Congressman Sires. "Now more than ever, they need to be ready to face local emergencies as well as national security threats due to the department's proximity to New York City." North Hudson Regional Fire and Rescue serves the approximately 200,000 residents of 5 Hudson County municipalities: North Bergen, West New York, Guttenberg, Union City and Weehawken. North Hudson is the most densely populated area in the United States; it also serves as passageway to almost 50,000 tri-state residents who commute or work in northern New Jersey. (####)
10.29.2007	Legislation renames Bayonne post office after Mayor Dennis P. Collins For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 30, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, the House of Representatives approved a bill, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires, which would designate the United States Post Office facility at 570 Broadway in Bayonne, as the "Dennis P. Collins Post Office Building" in honor of the four-term Bayonne mayor. "Mayor Collins is a legend in my congressional district for his long time public service to the people of his community and the State of New Jersey," said Congressman Sires. "As a former Mayor myself, I always admired how Mayor Collins ran his city so efficiently, while never losing sight of the needs of his constituents. I see no better way to honor him than to have this Bayonne post office bear his name, so his legacy will continue in the city forever." Dennis P. Collins was elected to public office in 1964, serving two terms as Bayonne Councilman both as Council President. Collins became Mayor in 1974 and retired in 1990. Prior to becoming a public official, Collins served his country during World War II and in the U. S. Army for three years, including time in the China-Burma-India theater of operations. The Senate version of this bill was introduced by Senator Robert Menendez and is awaiting committee action. (####)
10.24.2007	Members of the New Jersey Congressional Delegation send letter to Department of Transportation For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - {Today, Congressman Albio Sires sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Transportation, Mary Peters, voicing his concern for the proposed solution to the increase in flight delays and congestion at Kennedy Airport. The letter was signed by Senators Frank Lautenberg and Robert Menendez as well as 11 members of the New Jersey Congressional delegation. While it is important to look for viable solutions to help ease congestion in the New York/New Jersey airspace, a flight cap at JFK would only increase flights at New Jersey's Newark Liberty International Airport. The flight delays and congestion issue should be addressed as a problem of the entire region. The result of a flight cap at JFK would be an increase of air traffic at Newark Liberty thus having a dramatic impact New Jersey residents. The text of the letter sent to Secretary Peters is as follows: The Honorable Mary Peters Secretary Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave SE Washington, D.C. 20590 October 23, 2007 Dear Secretary Peters: We currently have an aging air traffic control system incapable of keeping up with the rising demand of air travel in the New Jersey/New York region. We share the Department of Transportation's (DOT) concerns about the increase in delays and congestion in the New Jersey/New York region, however, we have concerns about the approach DOT is taking by attempting to fix a regional problem with actions directed solely at John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK). As you know, the briefing held recently with NJ/NY Congressional staff and DOT/Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) staff made it clear that DOT and FAA are considering an option to "slot" or "cap" JFK. In order to be effective, any procedures imposed at JFK would have to be applied to all operations in the NJ/NY region and must be broad enough to cover not only U.S. commercial operations but also other users of the system as well. If JFK is slotted or capped and Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) is not, airlines (foreign and domestic commercial carriers and private corporate jets) will have no choice but to serve the New Jersey/New York area by flying into and out of EWR. This will simply result in more delays, more noise, and increased emissions at EWR, which will negatively impact our constituents. Such an outcome would be unacceptable to all New Jerseyans and to those in surrounding states like New York and Connecticut that would also be impacted by EWR operations. Furthermore, there would be a significant impact on the entire air traffic system as EWR is the fifth most important international gateway into the United States and currently the most delayed airport in the nation. To be clear, we cannot and will not support a policy that solves the JFK delay problem on the backs of New Jersey residents. How the DOT/FAA resolves the congestion and delay issue is of critical importance to us, to the millions of residents of the NJ/NY region, to air travelers, and to the thousands of airline employees who work at our regional airports. We respectfully request to receive regular briefings from your staff and updates on the progress of the DOT in this matter. We also urge you to treat the NJ/NY area airports as a region and not individually when it comes to the imposition of slots. Sincerely, ALBIO SIRES FRANK LAUTENBERG Member of Congress U.S. Senator 13th District ROBERT MENENDEZ BILL PASCRELL, JR. U.S. Senator Member of Congress 8th District FRANK PALLONE, JR. FRANK A. LOBIONDO Member of Congress Member of Congress 6th District 2nd District STEVEN R. ROTHMAN JIM SAXTON Member of Congress Member of Congress 9th District 3rd District MICHAEL FERGUSON DONALD M. PAYNE Member of Congress Member of Congress 7th District 10th District RODNEY FRELINGHUYSEN ROBERT E. ANDREWS Member of Congress Member of Congress 11th District 1st District CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH RUSH D. HOLT Member of Congress Member of Congress 4th District 12th District (####)
10.24.2007	New bill reflects Republican concerns; insists on covering 4 million additional children For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement on the passage of new legislation that would reauthorize the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The previous bill, passed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House and the Senate, was vetoed by President Bush. "Once again, my colleagues in the House of Representatives voted to make sure 10 million American children receive the healthcare they need. H.R. 3963, a revised version of the bill vetoed by President Bush on October 3rd, continues to provide health insurance to 4 million additional low income children. It assures the American people that the majority of us in Congress are listening to our constituencies and to the 81 percent of Americans that supported the previous bill. "The revised bill clarifies what we said all along: that low-income children will be the beneficiaries of this bill. It phases out coverage for childless adults, minimizes children moving from private insurance to SCHIP, and makes sure illegal immigrants cannot enroll in the health insurance program. This should quell the boisterous outrage of just a few Republicans that insisted on listening to their party and not to common sense. "I look forward to the passage of the revised SCHIP bill in the Senate. I also look forward to the satisfaction in knowing that our efforts - to bring peace of mind to millions of American families - was not in vain." (####)
10.17.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 18, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires made the following statement today following the failure of the House of Representatives to override President Bush's veto of the States Children's Health Insurance Program bill: "Partisan politics has won out to helping needy children. It is a shame that some of my colleagues in the House have missed out on a good opportunity to help 10 million American children get the health coverage they need. "The State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bill that was put before President Bush for his signature was a sensible compromise agreed upon by a bipartisan majority. More than 270 organizations, including the American Medical Association, AARP and Families USA have expressed that it was a workable solution to the health needs of low-income children. Numerous editorials were written in support of it. Recent polls show that 81 percent of Americans stood behind this legislation. Even with all of this support, ten million American children will not gain the benefits of this bill because a handful of my colleagues supported a partisan request. "I will continue to advocate for a reauthorization of SCHIP that will ensure that our most needy children have access to health care." (####)
10.16.2007	Staggering statistics of homeless veterans makes this legislation a top priority For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 17, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires has added his name to the list of representatives that want to eradicate homelessness among our veteran population. Sires has become a cosponsor of the Homes For Heroes Act of 2007, a bill sponsored by Rep. Al Green of Texas, and Rep. Michael Michaud of Maine, that will provide shelter to veteran's and their families, as well as prevent others on the verge of becoming homeless to loose what could be their most prized possession. Currently, there are 200,000 homeless veterans living in the United States. "Housing is one of my top priorities in Congress and to learn the staggering statistics of veteran homelessness simply hurts," said Congressman Sires. "The men and women who have put their lives on the line for our country must be taken care of, and we need to take the necessary steps so that they can have a roof over their heads and can provide shelter for their families." According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, out of the 800,000 homeless that exist in the United States, 23 percent are veterans. Nearly 400,000 veterans can become homeless during a year, and in the absence of permanent housing solutions and supportive services, many low-income veterans and their families are at risk of becoming homeless. Over 600,000 veterans have incomes below 50 percent of the poverty line. One-point-five million live in poverty. H.R. 3329, the Homes For Heroes Act, would provide shelter for homeless veterans and homeless veteran families, as well as prevent low-income families from falling into homelessness. Provisions include: the appointment of a liaison within HUD to work with state and local officials, non-profit organizations and the Department of Veterans Affairs to coordinate services; a $200 million assistance program for housing of low-income veterans; and the authorization of $1 million in HUD grants to service provides that assist veterans in obtaining permanent housing or homeless assistance. "It's time to rearrange our priorities and take care of our own first. I am concerned that our veterans, particularly that the one-in-five with mental health problems, could end up living on the streets. I support this bill, that will rescue our veterans and their families and help them live healthy, productive lives," said Congressman Sires. (####)
10.14.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 15, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - {Congressman Albio Sires a graduate of Saint Peter's College and a four-year letterwinner of the institution's Men's Basketball Team, was inducted into the Saint Peter's College Athletics Hall of Fame Class of 2007. Congressman Sires, who was a resident of Jersey City and graduated in 1974, received the Special Achievement Award. "It is an honor to become part of the history of my Alma Mater, Saint Peter's College," said Congressman Sires. "I have great memories of my years as a basketball player and frequently recall the opportunities that being on a winning team afforded me. It was a pleasure to be reunited with so many familiar faces and humbled to share the ceremony with other outstanding inductees." The ceremony took place on Saturday, October 13, at the McIntyre Room of the Saint Peter's College campus. Congressman Sires was inducted into the Athletic Hall of Fame alongside basketball players Luis Arrosa, Maureen Guilfoyle, and Felicia Harris, cross country/track runner Katie Kopacz, tennis player Alan Peyrouton, and Cross Country Coach Bob Oppici. The 1989-80 Men's Basketball Team and the 1981-82 Women's Basketball Team were also inducted. "I congratulate all of the honorees and was pleased to witness the induction of the first teams to be included in the Hall of Fame. I wish Saint Peter's College and its Athletics Department continued success and offer both my unending support." (####)
10.02.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez October 3, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement in response to President Bush's veto of the State Children's Health Insurance Program: "The success of the State Children's Health Insurance Program in the last 10 years is proof that our children need this insurance. It has become a dependable way for their parents to ensure they receive adequate health care. President Bush's veto of the SCHIP bill today crushes American parents' trust that our government can step in when they really need us. "The SCHIP program was created to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. This bill did not change the program's eligibility requirements. It would, however, have provided insurance for an additional 3.3 million children that would otherwise be uninsured. "The cost of private health insurance has gone up so much in recent years, it has made it increasingly difficult for many families to keep up. This bill includes those that simply can't pay; it does not create government-run health care. In New Jersey, this bill would have added an additional 100,000 children to the over 129,000 already covered by New Jersey's SCHIP called FamilyCare. "President Bush has missed the opportunity to provide 10 million American children sensible health care that would save money in the long run. Instead, he has chosen to ignore many of his Republican colleagues in favor of his version of the bill that would fall $14 billion short of what is needed to fund existing coverage for 6 million children." (####)
09.25.2007	Federal grant will assist in keeping Jersey City safe For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 26, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the Jersey City Police Department will receive a grant in the amount of $1,037,329. This grant will be used to help target violent crime in the city through intense and aggressive policing. "We all have an interest in making our streets safer," said Congressman Sires. "This grant will help the Jersey City Police Department purchase the most advanced technology and put more cops on the streets. Ultimately, these federal funds will help them do their jobs better." This grant, awarded under the Edward Byrne Memorial Discretionary Grants Program, is designed to assist state and local jurisdictions in improving the criminal justice system and assisting communities in preventing drug abuse and crime. The Jersey City Police Department will be able to use these funds to support personnel costs associated with the Safer Community Task Force, a joint effort between the police department and the Hudson County Prosecutor's Office. In addition, this grant will allow the Jersey City Police Department to purchase and install closed-circuit television surveillance equipment to monitor high crime areas, as well as laptop computers for police officers to use while on patrol. (####)
09.24.2007	Bill would correct regulatory problems that led to layoffs in the 13th district For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires' legislation that would improve the way public housing properties are managed was approved by the Financial Services Committee. H.R. 3521, the Public Housing Asset Management Improvement Act of 2007, would fix a regulation issued by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development that resulted in layoffs at Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) across the country. "Asset Management can be a valuable tool that could help Public Housing Authorities operate more efficiently," said Congressman Sires. "Unfortunately, the Department's implementation was flawed and resulted in under funding and ultimately a loss of jobs in my district in Jersey City and across the country. This legislation would correct these flaws, protecting jobs and providing flexibility." H.R. 3521 would do four things. First, it would exempt PHAs with fewer than 500 units from implementing asset management if they decide it would not be beneficial to their properties. This bill recognizes that small PHA's have few properties, resources, and staff, and see no economical or efficiency improvements from implementing the system. Second, it would require the Department and public housing advocates to renegotiate the funding formula for the operating fund using better data. Doing so will correct an error in the formula used by HUD that currently under funds some agencies by as much as 42 percent. Third, H.R. 3521 would restore the ability of PHA's to operate more efficiently by allowing them to move small amounts of funding between capital and operating funds to meet emerging needs. Finally, the bill recognizes that tenants must play a role in the implementation of asset management by requiring the Department to consider tenant participation when issuing any regulation or guidance on asset management. "I am very happy that my colleagues understood that my bill would make for better housing, more efficient operations, and a less costly program for taxpayers. My bill would provide regulatory relief and flexible funding," said Sires. "This will ultimately result in a better life for the residents of public housing." (####)
09.19.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 20, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the Union City School District will receive a grant in the amount of $1,461,260. This grant will be used to strengthen and expand the conversions of Emerson and Union Hill High Schools into six Small Learning Communities (SLC's). The conversion will better prepare Union City students for their future years in college. "I am pleased that Union City high school students will have the guidance and resources that can assist them in getting into the colleges of their choice," said Congressman Sires. "Personalized attention coupled with a strong curriculum will give these students an academic foundation that will carry them through college and beyond." This grant was awarded under the Smaller Learning Communities Program of the United States Department of Education. The Smaller Learning Communities Program is designed to encourage large high schools to develop and implement smaller learning environments. Smaller learning environments positively affect grades, test scores, attendance and graduation rates. The Union City School District will be able to provide Union Hill and Emerson High Schools students with a new rigorous preparatory curriculum, which is aligned with State standards. Schools will also be able to expand participation in Advanced Placement and dual credit courses for juniors and seniors, as well as provide personalized attention, including college counseling and guidance. "I am thrilled that thousands of our high school students will benefit from this wonderful opportunity that will put them on a level playing field with all other students in the State," said Union City Mayor Brian P. Stack. "I am already proud of the work they do and the effort they invest into creating a bright future for themselves and our community. I look forward to implementing this program with Union City School District officials, who will now have the resources that will allow them to give our students the attention and send-off they deserve." (####)
09.17.2007	Bill would assist families in danger of losing their homes that financed with a subprime mortgage For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 18, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13), voted to enable the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to serve more homebuyers and assist homeowners that are concerned about losing their homes to the turbulent housing market. H.R. 1852, Expanding American Homeownership Act of 2007, will revitalize the FHA, allowing it to expand its services for first-time homebuyers and serve more subprime borrowers. "Families need help, and this bill will increase home ownership as well as mortgage funding in areas of economic distress," said Congressman Sires. "Moreover, it will help subprime borrowers who will see their mortgage payments jump over the next two years." H.R. 1852 would allow up to 40 percent of owners with subprime loans to qualify for more affordable fixed rate loans so they can keep their homes, reducing the risk of foreclosure that have haunted thousands of families. The Expanding American Homeownership Act will also: authorize zero and lower down payment loans; increase FHA loan limits to allow families to buy homes in higher priced markets; and direct FHA to serve higher risk borrowers that would otherwise turn to predatory lenders and high priced mortgage alternatives. H. R. 1852 also includes funding for the Affordable Housing Fund. This fund allows state and local governments to create more affordable housing. By creating more home ownership opportunities, the bill also eases the rental market helping even more families. "As a member of the Financial Services Subcommittee that has jurisdiction over housing, I am pleased we have stepped up to the plate to assist homeowners that are struggling to keep their homes. By modernizing FHA, this bill helps young first-time homebuyers with their mortgages and seniors with reverse mortgages. It will make a positive impact on everyone's lives," said Congressman Sires. (####)
09.09.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 10, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, made the following statement after hearing testimony from General David H. Petraeus and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker given before a joint hearing between the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Armed Services Committee on the success of the surge in Iraq: "According to General Petraeus's testimony, the surge has helped to quell some of the sectarian violence in parts of Iraq. However, I continue to be concerned that the surge has not achieved the political reconciliations necessary to allow the Iraqi government to meet critical benchmarks. Both Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus indicated that we will achieve our goal over time but that it will not be quick or easy. Unfortunately, after listening to their testimony, I still do not see a clearly defined goal for success in Iraq. "General Petraeus spoke of his plan to slowly withdraw American troops starting at the end of the year, contingent on progress in Iraq. I am deeply concerned that he chooses to make the withdrawal of our men and women serving in Iraq dependent on the Iraqi government meeting benchmarks, political reconciliation and putting an end to the sectarian violence. Their progress has been slow and we must bring our troops home and out of harms way. "The terms and conditions of "success" have continued to change. In the years that we have been involved, the goals have been an ever moving target. And, after hearing their testimony, I still don't believe we have a clear mission in Iraq to determine what our goals are and how to achieve success in Iraq. American lives cannot continue to be sacrificed without a clearly defined goal. "Our involvement in Iraq needs to be reassessed. The American people are clamoring for an end to the conflict in an effort to save the lives of our soldiers." (####)
09.05.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 6, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the Town of Harrison will receive a $41,474 grant to enhance its school safety system. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) as part of their initiative to improve security at schools. "I am pleased that Harrison students and their parents will benefit from enhanced security at their schools," said Congressman Sires. "This grant will also be of great assistance to local law enforcement, enabling them to deter crime with appropriate equipment and technology." The Secure Our Schools Program provides up to 50 percent of the total cost for municipalities to install metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other equipment to help deter crime. The grant can also be used to pay half of the cost of security assessments, security training, and other measures that will provide significant security improvements. (####)
08.19.2007	Tunnel will double rail capacity between New York City and New Jersey For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez August 20, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires has advanced $3.5 million in funding for the Trans-Hudson Express Tunnel, a 9.3-mile new commuter rail system that will run under the Hudson River from the Secaucus Junction Station in New Jersey to 34th Street Penn Station in New York City. This funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and represents the first time the House has provided funding for this project. This federal commitment shows that this significant addition to area mass transit is needed to accommodate the projected economic development in the region, to alleviate traffic congestion, and boost regional security. The $7.2 billion project that will move 1.5 million people west of the Hudson River includes a state-of-the-art two-track tunnel under the Hudson River and a new rail terminal under 34th Street in Manhattan, adjacent to Penn Station. THE Tunnel, as it is commonly referred, will transport the projected manpower needed for the 400,000 new jobs that are expected to be generated by major new development in Midtown Manhattan over the next few years. "This historic addition to the mass transit system in the region is indispensable if we want to see prosperity in Hudson County," said Congressman Sires. "Thousands of New Jersey residents will have an alternative transit system that will alleviate congestion while taking them to new job opportunities across the river." The funding has been assigned from the New Starts Program of the Federal Transit Administration. THE Tunnel will also serve passengers from Morris, Somerset, Hunterdon, Union, Bergen, and Passaic Counties in New Jersey and Orange and Rockland Counties in New York. Construction is expected to begin in 2009. More information as well as renderings of the project can be found on the New Jersey Transit's website, www.njtransit.com. The Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill passed the House and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate before heading to a conference between both chambers. (####)
08.11.2007	Mr. Guarini served in the New Jersey State Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez September 12, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires introduced a bill to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility located at 69 Montgomery Street in Jersey City as the "Frank J. Guarini Post Office Building". Congressman Guarini served in the New Jersey State Senate and was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1979, completing seven terms until his retirement in 1993. "I have known Frank Guarini for many years and can personally attest to the commitment and passion that he has for the State of New Jersey and his country," said Congressman Sires. "I can think of no better way to honor the public service of this former New Jersey Congressman than to designate a U.S. Post Office in his name." Congressman Frank Guarini was born in Jersey City and has served his state and country as a naval officer aboard the USS Mount McKinley, receiving the Naval Commendation Medal and three Battle Stars during World War II. Mr. Guarini was elected to the New Jersey State Senate, serving from 1965 to 1972, and in 1979, became U. S. Representative for New Jersey's 14th Congressional district. As a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, Congressman Guarini championed legislation that encouraged employers to provide tax free educational assistance to their employees. He also served on the Budget Committee. Upon leaving the House, President Bill Clinton appointed him the United States Representative to the United Nations. After his retirement, Congressman Guarini established the Guarini Center for Government Affairs at Saint Peter's College in Jersey City that provides a forum for non-partisan discussion to students who consider careers in public service. "I am proud to introduce H.R. 2467 and urge my colleagues to support this bill which recognizes Frank Guarini, a former New Jersey State Senator and Congressman that has served with honor, and continues to make a difference in the lives of thousands of New Jersey residents," said Congressman Sires. (####)
08.08.2007	Federal dollars cover funding commitment For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez August 9, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires advanced $55 million dollars in funding for the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail. This federal funding from the Federal Transit Administration's New Starts Program fulfills the full federal funding commitment. "I was involved at the very early stages of the light rail system and I am proud that I was able to see the project through and witness its success," said Congressman Sires. "The Hudson-Bergen Light Rail has become the favorite means of transportation for many families in our community, and it affords elderly citizens the freedom of riding safely to adjacent towns and shopping areas." This $55 million in federal funding is part of the $1.2 billion total for light rail extension that runs north from Hoboken to Tonnelle Avenue in North Bergen, and south from 34th Street to 22nd Street in Bayonne. The Hudson-Bergen Light Rail boasts more than 35,000 weekday trips. With the opening of the Union City Bergenline Avenue station and the North Bergen Tonnelle Avenue stations, ridership has increase more than 38% in 2007 over the same period last year. (####)
08.06.2007	Resolution demands the withdrawal of Turkish troops from Cyprus For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez August 7, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - On August 4, 2007 Congressman Albio Sires and Congressman Gus Bilirakis, both members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced two resolutions expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Turkey should end its military occupation of Cyprus. Such a development would greatly improve America's security interests in the region. H.Res. 620, introduced by Congressman Sires, and H.Res. 627, introduced by Congressman Bilirakis, urge the Turkish government to end their occupation of Cyprus. Since the invasion of Cyprus on July 20, 1974, the number of Turkish troops on the island nation has now increased to over 40,000. With over 13 million crossings having taken place by Greek-Cypriots and Turkish-Cypriots into each others communities without incident, the resolutions call for an immediate withdrawal of Turkish troops and renewed effort in negotiations between Greek-Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. "Both resolutions address the crisis in the Republic of Cyprus. Congressman Bilirakis's resolution addresses a number of serious problem issues facing Cyprus and my resolution focuses only on the benefits of ending the 33-year-old Turkish military occupation," said Congressman Sires. "We introduced two resolutions that we believe are quite compatible. They don't conflict and, in fact, they compliment each other." As Turkey continues with its process towards membership in the European Union (E.U.), the European Commission has noted that without a settlement in Cyprus, the situation could become a serious obstacle to Turkey's accession into the E.U. In addition, the Negotiating Framework for membership also required that countries working towards accession must recognize all E.U. member states and Turkey's accession requires Turkey to recognize Cyprus and to work toward normalizing relations. The withdrawal of Turkish troops from the Cyprus is the best way to prepare for new comprehensive negotiations. "Even though the Turkish invasion of Cyprus took place 33 years ago, the pain and suffering of this tragic occasion still ripples throughout the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities," said Congressman Bilirakis, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Hellenic Issues. "A disastrous result of this occupation is the division among Greek and Turkish Cypriots, who have since lived their lives forcibly separated along ethnic lines. This cracking of the Cypriot nation is a crime against the people of Cyprus and can only be resolved by the full withdrawal of Turkish forces from the Island."
08.03.2007	Bills pave the way for a new era in conservation For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez August 4, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for H.R. 3221 and H.R. 2776, the Democratic Energy Independence Initiative, which will place America at the forefront in energy conservation, and move our country away from its dependence on foreign oil. The initiative reduces energy costs to consumers, creates new jobs, fights global warming, and makes our nation more secure. "This legislation will help us conserve energy at home and will allow my constituents of the 13th District of New Jersey to save money. It will also make the U.S. more energy independent, an issue undeniably linked to our national security," said Congressman Sires. "I'm glad we were able to pass this bill as many Americans hit the road for their summer vacations. They will know that the New Direction Congress has acted to protect our environment and improve energy efficiency." The legislation approved by the House today strengthens national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, makes the largest investment in homegrown biofuels in history, and creates worker training programs and training opportunities for our veterans to ensure our workforce knows how to properly implement green building, such as solar panel manufacturing. The legislation also supports cutting edge-research and the development of new technologies that will bring down energy costs for consumers. A second component of this package closes loopholes that offer incentives for businesses to purchase gas-guzzling vehicles, and repeals $23 billion in tax subsidies and royalty relief provisions for big oil companies. It also provides incentives for manufacturers to build more energy efficient appliances, helps working families afford hybrid vehicles, and assists small businesses to create energy efficient workplaces. "America should be a leader in the fight to end global warming. This legislation puts us on a path toward a cleaner environment, a safer country and a stronger economy," said Congressman Sires. H.R. 3221 and H.R. 2776 passed the House and await consideration in the U.S. Senate before heading to a conference between both chambers. (####)
07.31.2007	The CHAMP Act reauthorizes the Children's Health Insurance Program For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez August 1, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the CHAMP Act, the Children's Health and Medicare Protection Act of 2007. This bill reauthorizes the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) at $50 billion. The reauthorization benefits 11 million children nationwide, which includes the 6 million who are currently enrolled and 5 million more who are eligible but not currently enrolled. SCHIP or FamilyCare in New Jersey, will expire on September 30th. "This health insurance coverage is the protection hundreds of New Jersey parents count on when they do not qualify for Medicaid, but cannot afford private insurance," said Congressman Sires. "They're caught in the middle and we must protect their children's access to healthcare." In New Jersey, the CHAMP Act secures funding for 120,900 children already enrolled in SCHIP; provides funding for the State to reach the 136,000 that remain uninsured, and a new option to cover an additional 126,400 children who are aging out of Medicaid and SCHIP. H.R. 3162 also protects Medicare beneficiaries by: shielding Medicare from privatization; guaranteeing that seniors and people with disabilities can continue to see their doctors by preventing scheduled physician payment cuts; and expanding programs that assist low-income seniors and people with disabilities with co-payments, deductibles, and prescription drug costs. "By supporting this bill we give patients access to the preventive care that keeps them healthy while saving high emergency room costs. It's a win-win situation that can only improve the quality of life of New Jersey's working families," said Congressman Sires. The CHAMP Act has received the support of 114 organizations across the nation. (####)
07.30.2007	The Honest Leadership Open Government Act imposes tough lobbying reform For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 31, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires kept one of the first commitments he made upon his arrival in Washington: ethics reform. S. 1, the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act of 2007, received overwhelming bipartisan support and was passed by a vote of 411 to 8. "Our constituents need to know that our votes in congress truly are a reflection of their voice, and not the product of contributions to our campaigns or parties held in our honor," said Congressman Sires. This legislation addresses important concerns and breaks the link between lobbyists, legislators and their employees by prohibiting lobbyists from providing gifts and meals to members of Congress and their staff. It requires a cooling off period before a former officer, employee or elected official of the legislative or executive branch can lobby an agency or department where they have worked. It also prohibits former members from lobbying Congress for one year after they leave office. In addition, the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act offers transparency by establishing an online searchable database and demanding that lobbying disclosure reports be filed electronically. It also doubles the frequency of these disclosures to four times a year. "This legislation will go a long way to improving the transparency in lobbying activities and distancing the ties between legislators and lobbyists," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.26.2007	The Senate overwhelmingly adopts report; bill goes directly to the President's desk For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 27, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires reiterated his commitment to protecting America from terrorism. The conference report on H.R. 1, Implementing the Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, will finally allow vital security measures to be put in place so that our country's protection becomes standard practice. "Almost six years have passed since the terrorist attack on 9/11, and we have had these recommendations for two and a half years. It's about time we start securing our ports and mass transit, two areas in our district perceived to be vulnerable. We need to do everything we can to be prepared, and hopefully begin to restore the sense of security our country once had," said Congressman Sires. In July 2004, the bipartisan 9/11 Commission submitted its recommendations, only to have most of them blocked by the GOP-led Congress. The conference report to H.R. 1 is sound, comprehensive legislation that will begin to implement procedures that will strengthen our national security. H.R. 1 highlights port, aviation, rail and mass transit security, as well as communications among first responders and risk based funding. For the 13th district, it includes important provisions such as: Providing a greater percentage of Homeland Security grant funding to be risk-based, which will benefit high risk states like New Jersey. Requiring 100% of the containers bound for the U.S. to be scanned Requiring the screening of 100% of the cargo on passenger aircraft, including $250 million annually for checkpoint screening and $450 annually for baggage screening Authorizing rail and mass transit security grants Ensuring communications among first responders "This has been one of the highest priorities in my district. I am pleased with the end result the conference report put forth and urge the President to quickly sign it into law," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.26.2007	Anti-Gang and Youth Violence Prevention Program for Union City would keep youths out of potential trouble For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 27, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted for the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill, which included $200,000 for an Anti-Gang and Youth Violence Prevention Program for Union City. "As we have seen gang violence increase throughout the nation and in densely populated areas like Union City, programs like these provide young people with an alternative to joining gangs," said Congressman Sires. Union City young people must address numerous pitfalls on a daily basis like poverty, drug and alcohol use, and limited anger management skills, which often turns young residents into willing candidates for gang recruitment. Union City plans on implementing a comprehensive, coordinated program of community-based after-school, weekend and summer arts and recreation programs for at-risk minority youth. The project would complement the state-funded School-Linked Youth Services Program at Emerson High School and Union Hill High School, providing at-risk youth with a positive alternative to gang membership and youth violence. (####)
07.25.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 26, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today Congressman Albio Sires voted for the Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill, which provides $53.6 billion in discretionary spending. This bill restores years of drastic cuts to law enforcement initiatives and provides the tools to ensure that the U.S. remains a global leader in scientific research and technology. "Violent crime has risen in the last couple of years and this is not the time to slash funding for law enforcement," said Congressman Sires. "Important programs like juvenile delinquency prevention and the hiring of law enforcement personnel are priorities that should not be overlooked." In the area of law enforcement, H.R. 3093 provides funding in essential areas: $725 million that includes $100 million for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) hiring program. $400 million for juvenile justice programs, including youth mentoring and delinquency prevention grants. $430 million for programs that reduce violence against women and addresses domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. In the scientific arena, this bill provides $28 billion for the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Standards and Technology to keep America competitive in the global market. H.R. 3093 also includes funds for the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration to protect land surrounding our nation's coasts and estuaries, as well as to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for scientific research in space, aeronautical research, manned exploration in space, and education dedicated to space. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill also provides funding for the creation of a National Academies' Climate Change Committee to investigate issues and make recommendations to address global climate change. "We need to make sure that federal agencies have the capability to properly record and keep track of climate changes. Addressing climate change has become a necessity, and this bill allows us to have the time to take the appropriate actions to help safeguard our environment," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.24.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Sires voted for the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development bill, which included $170,000 for the redevelopment of the Koppers Coke Brownfields site in Kearny. This abandoned 174 acre site has the potential to alleviate congestion in the region's heavily traveled transportation network and to also bring new business to the area. Hudson County, which owns the land, plans to transform the Kopper Coke Brownfield site into a two million square foot industrial park that will include warehouse and distribution space. The county expects the project to create over 2000 new jobs and substantial new tax revenue. "Better utilization of this site in Kearny will breathe new life into this area of the district," said Congressman Sires. "This redevelopment creates new jobs that will contribute to both the city's and the county's economic development." Congressman Sires was joined by Congressman Rothman in advancing these funds. The Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill passed the House and awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate before heading to a conference between both chambers.
07.24.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the Transportation- Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which included $500,000 for the Rehabilitation of the Bridge Street, Clay Street and Jackson Street Movable Bridges, located in Essex County. These bridges are more than 100 years old and in need of major rehabilitation in order to be in full compliance with current regulations. "These bridges are an integral part of the daily lives of thousands of residents in northern New Jersey, especially the residents of Newark and Jersey City. They need appropriate maintenance so that pedestrian and vehicular traffic can flow without interruption," said Congressman Sires. The Bridge Street, Clay Street and Jackson Street Movable Bridges are shared by Essex and Hudson Counties. They have been inspected every two years by the Department of Public Works and these inspections have deemed the Bridge Street Bridge and the Clay Street Bridge structurally deficient and in need of upgrades. Improvements that will be made to the three bridges include upgrades to control operating systems, structural, mechanical, and electrical repairs, painting of the structures, and surface improvements to the sidewalks and roadway. The Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill passed the House and awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate before heading to a conference between both chambers. (####)
07.24.2007	The Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill increases funding for important programs For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 24, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to continue funding for housing for seniors, the disabled, and the families who need it most. The FY 2008 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill ensures a steady stream of funding for low-income Americans that could not otherwise afford adequate housing. H.R. 3074 provides $50.7 billion in discretionary spending, which represents an increase from last year's funding level. "Housing is one of my top priorities because it gives families a place for their children to grow," said Congressman Sires. "The increased funding for housing will provide a better quality of life for many of our neighbors in the 13th Congressional district." In the areas of housing and community development, this bill provides for the renewal of all Section 8 vouchers and includes funding for 1,000 new, targeted vouchers for homeless veterans and non-elderly people with disabilities. H.R. 3074 also funds important programs for low-income seniors and persons with disabilities, rejecting the President's request to slash the budgets of these programs. This bill helps communities too by increasing funding for the Community Development Block Program and other programs that revitalize distressed and obsolete public housing units. The Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill provides funding for highway infrastructure and mass transit, while generating thousands of jobs across all sectors of the economy in local communities. This bill also provides $3.6 billion, $86 million above the current funding level for airport modernization, safety, and efficiency grants that ease congestion by building infrastructure for future traffic. In addition, H.R. 3047 provides $1.4 billion for Amtrak. The funds preserve the passenger railway service so necessary for millions of commuters that work and live in Northern New Jersey. In the 13th congressional district, the Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill provides: $200,000 for the Hudson County Intermodal Station Pedestrian Bridge in Union City. This project enhances the flow and safety of 8,000 people a day and provides additional access points to the station. $170,000 for the Redevelopment of the Koppers Coke Brownfield site in Kearny. This project turns the site into a two million square foot industrial park which has the potential of creating 2000 new jobs and substantial tax revenue for the county. $500,000 for the Bridge Street, Clay Street, and Jackson Street Movable Bridges Rehabilitation in Essex County. These main crossings between Hudson an Essex County are more than 100 years old and in need of major rehabilitation. "Passenger safety in bridges, roadways, railways, and airports is essential, and we need to be vigilant. Safety can only be ensured if infrastructure is properly maintained. Adequate funding is necessary, and this bill allows us to do just that," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.23.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 24, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today for the Transportation - Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill that included $200,000 for the Hudson County Intermodal Station Pedestrian Bridge in Union City. The federal funding for the construction was allotted from the Bus and Bus Facilities account of the Federal Transit Administration. New Jersey Transit, the operator of the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail System, determined that a pedestrian bridge is needed to separate pedestrian traffic from vehicular traffic. The structure will enhance the flow and safety of the estimated 8,000 pedestrians that use the station every day. The bridge will also allow two access points to the station, at 48th Street and 49th Streets, rather than only on 49th Street. The addition of the bridge will ensure the safety of the pedestrians while making vehicular traffic more efficient. "The Light Rail Station in Union City has been a big success and I am pleased the passengers will have a pedestrian bridge to ensure the safety and comfort of the families that use it," said Congressman Sires. "I remember when the light rail system was just an idea. It gives me great satisfaction to see this project that I worked on get up and running. Therefore, I am very happy that I was able to keep my commitment to the Hudson Bergen Light Rail by advancing funding that will improve this asset for the community." The Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill passed the House and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate before heading to a conference between both chambers.
07.18.2007	Electronic medical records will insure swift and proper treatment For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 19, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today for the Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill, which included $300,000 for Bayonne Medical Center. The funding will be used to implement an electronic medical records system that will streamline treatment and ensure records are protected from deterioration. "The medical community lags behind when it comes to implementing technology that facilitates information sharing," said Sires. "An electronic medical records system should become a standard tool in hospitals and medical practices. It saves time, maximizes storage space, and eliminates the issue of deteriorated files." Electronic medical records allow practicing physicians, pharmacies and hospitals to share information necessary for timely, patient care. Information sharing has the potential to expedite treatment locally and across the country. (####)
07.18.2007	The Latino Scholars program is a valuable tool for Newark students For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 19, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today for the FY 2008 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill, which included $100,000 for the Latino Scholars Program offered by The Latino Institute of Newark. National statistics indicate that Latino students are not graduating from college at the same rate as white students, and are not entering graduate schools in large numbers. The Pew Hispanic institute reports that young Hispanic undergraduates are half as likely as their white peers on campus to finish a bachelor's degree, a disparity similar to high school graduation rates. The Latino Scholars Program helps outstanding Hispanic students to complete their degrees and enter graduate schools by providing mentoring and financial support. "Although many Hispanic students go on to college and complete their degrees, others drop out. It is important that we provide the extra push they need to ensure these students stay on the road to success. Their education is an investment that will pay off for decades," said Congressman Sires.
07.18.2007	The Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill insures stability and progress For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 19, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to ensure that funding to vital areas of American's daily lives continues to flow. H.R. 3043, the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations bill makes college more affordable, expands access to health care for the uninsured, and invests in American workers. This bill provides $151.7 billion in discretionary spending in 2008, a modest increase over last year. "Investing in these areas assists millions of families that try very hard to get ahead but need a little help," said Congressman Sires "This is why we serve, to make sure families get the tools they need to access job training, higher education and healthcare." These examples highlight some areas FY 2008 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations provides vital funding for: Pell Grants - increases the maximum award by $390, making the maximum amount $4,700. Job Training and Worker Protection - safeguards and increases funding by 1.9% for employment, training and worker protection programs. Healthcare - expands healthcare to more than 2 million Americans enabling health centers to serve an additional 1 million uninsured patients, provides funding for new state health access grants, and support to patients who are deemed medically high-risk so they can afford insurance. In the 13th Congressional district of New Jersey, H.R. 3043 provides $300,000 to the Bayonne Medical Center, for the institution of an electronic medical records system. It also assigns $100,000 to the Latino Institute for their Latino Scholars Program, which provides mentoring, advice, and financial support for outstanding Latino college students in Newark. "This bill protects low-income residents by ensuring more are able to pay their electric bills, shortens processing times for Social Security disability claims and enables states to expand services that will improve the chances of Americans to live the productive, prosperous lives for which we all strive," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.15.2007	Legislation prevents the defrauding of consumers For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 16, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2547, the FDIC Enforcement Enhancement Act, introduced by Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Judy Biggert (R-IL), which protects the good name of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as well as the millions of consumers who put their trust in the federal agency. "This important consumer protection legislation is necessary to safeguard the name of one of the most recognized federal agencies in the country," said Congressman Sires. "We hear all types of stories about trademarks registered to a specific company being used inappropriately, and we had the same situation going on with the FDIC. This bill allows them to go after the perpetrators and protect millions of consumers." The good name of the FDIC and the guarantees it affords investors is many times an important factor in the decision making process for consumers. The federal agency had identified schemes to defraud depositors through the misuse of its name, abbreviation or logo, suggesting products are fully insured by the FDIC when they are not. The federal agency was powerless against violators who operated outside the deposit insurance system. H.R. 2547 allows the FDIC to go after these abuses, by granting it the authority to enter cease and desist orders against the perpetrators and impose penalties of up to $1 million per day on any person who falsely represents the FDIC. This bill also allows the FDIC to file an injunction against the people or companies misrepresenting it under the rules of any federal, state, foreign court or competent jurisdiction. "Often times the elderly become the victims of these scams. Their trust in the FDIC has been a factor in falling for tricks that rob them of their life savings. This bill will allow the FDIC to protect its good name and restore the trust, that for decades, consumers have had in this essential financial institution," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.12.2007	Bill also expands provision that allows the use of Section 8 so that people can purchase a home For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 13, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - With the high cost of housing in the district, Congressman Albio Sires voted to expand and streamline the Section 8 housing program that provides rental assistance to low-income families, seniors and the disabled. H.R. 1851, the Section 8 Housing Reform Act (SEVRA) of 2007, authorizes additional vouchers, makes numerous procedures more efficient and fully utilizes allotted resources. This reform lifts much of the burden on agencies as well as residents that want to benefit from the federal assistance. "Section 8 housing has been a stabilizing factor in the lives of millions of American families that cannot afford safe, adequate housing without this assistance," said Congressman Sires. "Additional vouchers as well as practical changes that eliminate red tape strengthen this needed assistance and simplifies the program for those who administer it - the public housing agencies." The Section 8 Housing Reform Act expands the number of vouchers by 20,000 in each of the next five years, for a total of 100,000 new vouchers. It creates incentives to obtain employment, increase earned income, pursue higher education, and save for retirement. One of the highlights of H.R. 1851 is that it targets the use of vouchers for homeownership. Housing agencies that opt to participate would be able to allow families to use the housing vouchers to cover a portion of their monthly mortgage expenses. "Homeownership is part of the American dream. It especially seems out of reach to people who live in high cost areas like my district. This reform bill makes changes in this vital program that will bring stability to participating families and make it easier for them to plan for the future," said Congressman Sires. (####)
07.10.2007	Dubai Ports bill now goes to the President's desk For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez July 11, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to insure national security procedures remain in place to avoid the situation created in 2006 with Dubai Ports World. H.R. 556, The Foreign Investment and Security Act will ensure that foreign investments receive the necessary scrutiny so that our country remains secure. This bill that was passed by the Senate last month, will now go to the President's desk for his signature. "Recent terrorism threats abroad remind us that our country must be vigilant if we want to remain safe," said Congressman Sires. "This bill offers a series of checks and balances that will keep tabs on foreign investments in critical infrastructure, as well as monitoring the access foreign companies may have in the United States". In 2006, Dubai Ports World, a company owned by the United Arab Emirates, announced they were taking over the management operations of 6 major ports in the United States. One of the ports was Port Newark, located in the 13th Congressional District of New Jersey. The deal was approved with little scrutiny by the Bush Administration. The Foreign Investment and Security Act significantly strengthens the review of foreign investments by requiring CFIUS, the interagency Committee on Foreign Investment in The United States, to conduct a 30-day review of any national security-related business transaction. CFIUS would then be required to conduct a 45-day full investigation if the committee review determines the transaction could threaten national security, the transaction is foreign government-controlled, or if it raises national security risks associated with foreign-ownership of critical infrastructure. This bill also requires that CFIUS designate a knowledgeable lead agency - such as the Department of Defense for defense acquisitions - in reviewing transactions and insuring senior-level accountability. The Chairman of CFIUS and the head of the lead agency must approve all deals in order to avoid future transactions, like that of Dubai Ports World, which was approved with little scrutiny and by low-level officials. "I believe this bill is indispensable and timely," said Congressman Sires. "I hope the President does not hesitate to sign this legislation and ensure the proper foreign investment transaction procedures are in place. Our lawmakers and security experts should then be able to focus on other areas that might need reinforcement of our national security." (####)
06.26.2007	Helps secure funding for Passaic Valley Sewerage Commission For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez June 27, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to ensure the nation has clean water, clean air, and to preserve our nation's natural resources. This year, more than ever, H.R. 2643, the Interior-Environment Appropriations bill is indispensable due to evidenced climate changes and to supply the EPA with necessary funding to protect our nation's families. "We are living at a time when the environment has become an urgent priority," said Sires. "We must make sure current working systems remain in place while scientists and experts find the most efficient way to predict possible environmental challenges in the future. The investment is not only worthwhile, it is necessary." The 2008 Interior-Environment Act, increases funding for climate change research at the EPA and the Interior Department. It establishes a two-year commission on Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation, to deal with how the U.S. adapts to the reality of climate change. On a local level, it restores funding to improve the quality of drinking water, provides $1.27 billion for the Superfund hazardous waste clean-up program and $7 million dollars to protect the welfare of low-income and minority communities from environmental toxins related to industrial pollution. In the 13th Congressional District, H.R. 2643 benefits the Passaic Valley Sewerage Commission, which operates one of the largest treatment plants for wastewater in northern New Jersey. This bill provides $500,000 to remove pollutants discharged to the Passaic River and Newark Bay, reduces discharge of toxic compounds that affect fish consumption, and reduces the amount of debris washing up on our state beaches. "I am pleased that this bill also provides more funding than in years past for the National Endowments for the Arts," said Congressman Sires. "Artistic endeavors enhance the psychological well-being of our citizens, as well as fostering economic growth in our communities. Additional funding for the National Endowment for the Humanities will assist the agency in continuing to be a catalyst for artistic and intellectual talent." (####)
06.24.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez June 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Jersey City, NJ) - After touring the Jersey City Medical Center, a facility which provides medical services to a large population of uninsured children, U.S. Reps. Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Albio Sires (D-NJ) today said they are working in Washington to strengthen the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), known in New Jersey as FamilyCare, so that it would reach thousands of more uninsured children in New Jersey. The lawmakers were joined by Jersey City Medical Center President Stephen Kirby, Jersey City Medical Center Chief Medical Officer Dr. Robert P. Jacobs, and two home healthcare workers who, despite working full time in the health care field, have been unable to secure medical insurance for themselves or their children. The workers are members of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU). The two New Jersey lawmakers said Congress will soon consider legislation that would strengthen SCHIP in order to provide health coverage to millions of children who are currently eligible for the program but, for whatever reason, are not enrolled. Here in New Jersey, 264,000 children are uninsured, but 83-percent of them are eligible for FamilyCare. Pallone, who chairs the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, is charged with writing the legislation that would allow for a possible $50 billion funding increase in the program to reach many of these children. He expects to move a bill through committee next month. "Due to rapidly rising health care costs, insurance coverage is increasingly out of reach for many hard working American families," Pallone said. "These families should not be forced to face uncertainty from day to day, hoping and praying that their health holds out. We are working hard to dramatically strengthen SCHIP so we can offer these families a way to obtain insurance for their children and the peace of mind that comes with it." "Many low income families benefit from Medicaid while others have health plans through their employment." said Congressman Sires. "Thousands of families are stuck in the middle; parents making too much income to qualify for Medicaid and too little to buy health insurance. These are the children that can benefit from SCHIP. In the long run, adequate healthcare for children will save money with the results being healthy, well-developed children that are an asset to society." Both Pallone and Sires lauded the recent passage of a Democratic budget, which included a $50 billion increase in funds for SCHIP over the next five years. The lawmakers noted this increase, of which New Jersey is expected to receive over $1 billion, would assist the state in improving outreach and enrollment for children who are eligible but not yet participating. "Too often, insurance determines whether children receive the medical care they need. Children who are not covered by insurance often have unmet medical needs and are likely to end up in the emergency department with conditions that could have been avoided," said Kirby, of Jersey City Medical Center, where more than 1,000 children have been enrolled in SCHIP in the past two years. "The SCHIP program is vital to parents and their children. We applaud congressmen Sires and Pallone for their work to preserve this lifeline to meet medical needs." Diawanti Mohabir, an uninsured healthcare worker joined the legislators. "My daughter has a painful toothache and I don't have an extra $150 to pay the doctor," said Diawanti. "It's a nightmare and it's making me sick!" Mohabir is a member of SEIU 1199 New Jersey and works as a home health aide at Metropolitan home care agency in Jersey City. "Diawanti and her husband work fulltime yet they still have a hard time making ends meet, reauthorizing SCHIP helps thousands of hard working families like them provide their children with the medical attention they need," said Milly Silva, President of SEIU 1199 New Jersey. "Congressmen Albio Sires and Frank Pallone are doing a good thing for people who work so hard yet can't afford medical care." SCHIP is a partnership between the state and federal government to provide health insurance to children and in some states, including New Jersey, their low-income parents who work full time but do not receive health insurance through their jobs. The program, created ten years ago, now provides health coverage to 6 million children nationwide, including over 125,000 New Jersey children. Unlike some states, which only extend coverage to children, New Jersey's FamilyCare program provides coverage to over 70,000 uninsured low-income parents, and guardians of children who are 18 or younger. Jersey City Medical Center has the second largest number of uninsured patients in New Jersey, and the highest percentage of uninsured patients combined. SEIU Health Care, the 1 million member union of health care workers who are fighting for health care for all. (####)
06.14.2007	13th District one of the most vulnerable in the nation For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez June 15, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to secure funding for key areas in the 13th Congressional District of New Jersey that are vulnerable to acts of terrorism. H.R. 2638, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act is sweeping legislation that allots more money for urban areas, port security, and explosive detection, as well as grants that will ensure vital programs that increase communications among first responders during a crisis. "This bill not only continues to fund necessary ongoing operations already in place, it enhances vital areas of homeland security so that we come closer to streamlined and efficient security measures," said Congressman Sires. "H.R. 2638 makes great strides towards the peace of mind Americans families long for." The 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill: Invests in port security by significantly increasing funding to protect critical port facilities and infrastructure. Improves aviation security by providing funding for new explosive detection systems at airports and funding to double the amount of cargo screened on passenger aircraft. Expands support for local law enforcement personnel, firefighters and other first responders by rejecting the President's proposed $1 billion cut for training and equipment for first responders. "I am pleased that this bill allows state and local governments to set chemical security rules that are stronger than the federal government's. This will allow New Jersey to keep its strong chemical security laws in place. The recent threat to fuel storage tanks close to Kennedy Airport and its pipeline originating in Linden, New Jersey illustrate the potential danger our district's residents face and the need for these stringent standards," said Congressman Sires. The Homeland Security Appropriations Act also eliminates no-bid contracts except in emergencies and includes accountability provisions that will protect valuable tax dollars. (####)
06.06.2007	Millions could benefit from this life saving research For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez June 7, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to expand scientists' access to embryonic stem cell lines. This legislation, that was passed by the Senate earlier this year, will go directly to the President's desk. S. 5, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, would expand the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by lifting the restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines that can be used for federally funded research. "By authorizing additional stem cell lines, we will eliminate restrictions on the scientific process and give patients and their families a ray of hope," said Congressman Sires. "More than 100 million Americans suffer from debilitating diseases that have the potential of being alleviated or cured, if only experts had access to additional resources." Most of the stem cell lines authorized for federally-funded research under the restrictions imposed by President Bush in 2001 are no longer useful for research. This bill allows funding for research on embryonic stem cells regardless of the date of their creation and for those that are generated from embryos discarded by fertility clinics. S. 5 also establishes an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. "We are doing everything we can in Congress to fight Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, diabetes and other illnesses. We must allow the development of what the scientific community has suggested: the possibility of a cure. This bill takes an ethical approach to stem cell research so that the nation can benefit from outstanding scientific discoveries in this exciting area of research," said Congressman Sires. The Stem Cell Enhancement Act is supported by more than 500 organizations and faith-based groups, including the American Medical Association, AARP, and the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. (####)
06.02.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez June 3, 2007 (201) 222-2828 "The arrests of three men by federal authorities for allegedly planning to destroy John F. Kennedy International Airport, underscore the need for the Department of Homeland Security to assign anti-terrorism funding according to the degree of risk to each state. The men were planning to blow up the pipelines and storage tanks that supply fuel to the airport. The attack would have also destroyed the adjacent area of Queens, New York. The pipeline takes fuel from a facility in Linden, New Jersey, and runs through Staten Island and Brooklyn. "Terrorists continue to target the New York metropolitan area. Two of the most dangerous miles in the nation - at risk for terrorist attacks - are located in the 13th District of New Jersey. I have a responsibility to keep the people in our district safe. I am also concerned for all New Jersey families. This is the second foiled terrorism attempt in our state in the last four weeks. Six people were arrested a month ago in an alleged plot to kill service members in Fort Dix. "I applaud federal and international authorities for preventing what could have been one of the most devastating attacks on U.S. soil. I will do everything in my power to keep all New Jersey families safe from terrorism. I intend to continue to fight for increased Homeland Security funding for all of New Jersey."
05.24.2007	The House approves several bills that honor our veterans For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted with a bipartisan majority for legislation that will improve benefits and services for our veterans. The legislation addresses new concerns for soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, like updating healthcare and screening options. "Our brave men and women that have put their lives on the line to defend our country deserve the best healthcare. They also need to know that they will be eligible in the future, if health problems do not immediately surface," said Congressman Sires. "These bills address eligibility as well as quality of life, while ensuring we correct past mistakes." The House of Representatives passed the following bills on May 23rd: Traumatic Brain Injury/Rural Veterans Outreach (H.R. 2199): Ensures that our veterans are properly screened for Traumatic Brain Injury and receive the appropriate treatment. Expands VA resources to provide rural communities with "mobile vet centers" for mental health services and benefits outreach. Returning Service Member VA Healthcare Insurance Act (H.R. 612): Helps ensure soldiers with mental health conditions not immediately diagnosed are treated by making them eligible for health care for five years after leaving active duty. Veterans Outreach Improvement Act (H.R. 67): Allows the VA to partner with state and local governments to reach out to veterans and their families to ensure they receive the benefits they have earned. Early Access to Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits Act (H.R. 2239): Extends eligibility for rehabilitation benefits from the Veterans' Affairs Department. Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act (H.R. 1470): Requires that chiropractic care and services be provided to veterans at all Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. "The men and women who are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan face new challenges. We are fighting in Congress to increase veteran's healthcare and benefits programs by almost $12 billion. We are doing everything we can so that our veterans receive the care they need when they return home and remain healthy," said Congressman Sires. (####)
05.23.2007	Bill protects the institution and consumers For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 24, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ) and Congresswoman Judy Biggert (R-IL) introduced the FDIC Enforcement Enhancement Act, a bill that protects the good reputation of the Federal Insurance Deposit Corporation as well as the millions of consumers that trust the financial institution. This bill imposes penalties on companies that claim to be insured by the FDIC when they are not. "For decades, the FDIC has instilled trust in the millions of Americans that deposit their hard earned money in our country's financial institutions and use lender services. Criminals are taking advantage of its good reputation to steal money from unwitting consumers. We must stop scams that make innocent people believe that the FDIC is protecting their investments," said Congressman Sires. The FDIC has become aware of various schemes that defraud consumers by misrepresenting the insurance corporation. Criminals use the FDIC's name, logo, or abbreviation to suggest that the products they sell are insured by the FDIC. Many times, the victims of these crimes are the elderly. The FDIC is powerless against perpetrators that operate outside the deposit insurance system. The FDIC Enforcement Enhancement Act will strengthen the FDIC enforcement powers by allowing it to enter cease and desist orders against this conduct and impose fines up to $1,000,000 per day on any person who falsely represents the insurance corporation. The FDIC Enforcement Enhancement Act would also allow the FDIC to file an injunction against the people or companies misrepresenting it under the rules of any federal, state, foreign court or competent jurisdiction. (####)
05.23.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 24, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - U.S. Reps. Frank Pallone (D-NJ-06), Donald Payne (D-NJ-10), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-08), Steve Rothman (D-NJ-9), Rush Holt (D-NJ-12), and Albio Sires (D-NJ-13) today issued the following statement in opposition to the Iraq funding bill which does not hold the Bush Administration accountable for the war in Iraq and fails to include a timeline for a withdrawal of American military forces. "Since Democrats took over Congress, we have tried to establish a process to responsibly end our military involvement in Iraq. We, like all Americans, have watched in sadness as 3,422 of our brave soldiers have lost their lives, including 57 from the State of New Jersey. Already we have passed and sent to the President a plan that would include a timeline for troop withdrawal. Our best efforts, however, have been consistently met with a veto. Indeed, President Bush continues to stubbornly and recklessly insist that his failed Iraq policy continue without any reasonable compromise. "We, along with the great majority of Americans, strongly disagree with the President. He has been wrong every step of the way and it is long past time to bring US combat operations in Iraq to a conclusion. The Democratic leadership has tried repeatedly to bring finality to the war, but because of a lack of a veto-proof majority, today they have relented on key requirements to help bring about its end. While we understand why the proposal before us was crafted in such a way, we believe that we must continue to forcefully stand up to the President. We voted against spending even more money in Iraq because there were no timelines or real accountability on an administration that has proven to be utterly incompetent on the most important issue of our time." (####)
05.14.2007	The C.O.P.S Program helps hire officers and purchase technology and training For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 15, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted for the Community Oriented Policing Program (COPS) Reauthorization Act of 2007, a bill that would put 50,000 more police officers on our nation's streets. The COPS program has proven to help reduce crime and provides for the purchase of technology that allows our officers to get out from behind their desks and patrol our neighborhoods. "Our local law enforcement officers serve communities across the nation as the first line of defense," said Congressman Sires. "The number of police patrolling our streets matters for the security of every city. We have a responsibility to ensure these officers are in place." The COPS hiring program has been one of the most successful law enforcement programs in our nation's history. Created in 1994 under the Clinton Administration, the program helped hire 117,000 additional police officers nationwide and 1,244 in the 13th congressional district. Unfortunately the COPS program was eliminated last year and, at the same time, violent crime spiked across the nation. The COPS Improvement Act would help combat violent crime in the 13th Congressional District by: Bringing $30,114,332 in funding for police departments over the next 6 years; Putting 532 additional police officers on the streets; Adding 29 additional School Resource Officers in schools; and Awarding $3,640,341 in technology grants to police departments that will enable them to put more officers on our streets. "While our local police departments are working hard to combat the increases in violent crimes in our communities, they also have to contend with protecting our residents from terrorism. This bill will provide much needed assistance to our police departments that will ultimately help our country remaining vigilant and prevent harm in our communities," said Congressman Sires. The legislation has been endorsed by The Fraternal Order of Police, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, The National Sherriff's Association, and The National Association of Police Organizations, as well as the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities. (####)
05.09.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 10, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted once again to fund our soldiers in Iraq while insuring the Iraqi government shares the responsibility of stabilizing their country. H.R. 2206, U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007, fully funds our troops over the next two to three months. This proposal splits the bill, previously vetoed by the President, into two separate measures. "We must send a message to the American people that we are keeping our promises and voting for a new direction in Iraq," said Congressman Sires. "Our troops need our protection and support, but they also need to know that there will be an end to their involvement in combat. We owe it to our soldiers to show them that our government is on the right track with its sights set on our men and women coming home to their families." H.R. 2206 withholds $52.8 billion of the $95.5 billion provided to the Department of Defense. It requires that the President submit a report to Congress, on or before July 13th, about the progress being made by the Iraqi government. Advances are essential regarding the enforcement of vital security measures and enhancement of government procedures, as well as the protection of the civil liberties and rights of all Iraqis. It also requests that the Iraqi government begin the allocation of the $10 billion of Iraqi revenue that has been set aside for reconstruction projects and essential services. After receiving the reports, both the House and the Senate would then vote on the release of the remaining funds. In addition, the bill also guarantees a vote on an amendment that directs the funding to only be used for planning and executing the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq within 180 days of the bill's enactment, with only limited exceptions to this redeployment. This bill also includes vital funding for international assistance, veterans' medical care, Hurricane Katrina Relief, and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). Funding for these important programs was included in the previous supplemental appropriations bill which was vetoed by the President. (####)
05.09.2007	Funding will help fire prevention efforts For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 10, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires announced today that the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the Jersey City Fire Department $223,954 for the department's fire prevention efforts. The Jersey City Fire Department will use the federal grant for a prevention and awareness project in conjunction with Jersey City elementary schools this October during Fire Safety Week. "Firefighters play a vital role in teaching fire prevention awareness in our communities. The Jersey City Fire Department will be able to continue their fire prevention work by using this federal funding to help educate Jersey City's elementary school students about fire safety," said Congressman Sires. "Teaching our youngsters to be aware of the ways to prevent fires today will certainly help reduce the prevalence of fires in the future." The funding for Jersey City was awarded through the Fire Prevention and Safety Grants (FP&S) program, which is a part of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program under the purview of FEMA. FP&S grants support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards. The primary goal is to target high-risk populations and mitigate high incidences of death and injury. (####)
05.08.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 9, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) voted today for H.R. 1684, the Homeland Security Authorization Act, which authorizes funding for the operations of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). H.R. 1684 destines $39.8 billion dollars to support first responders, strengthen management, and improve technology, cybersecurity, and bioterrorism preparedness. "The security of our nation must be at the top of our priority list and this Congress has taken appropriate action to finally have this bill signed into law," said Congressman Sires. "The Department of Homeland Security must be able to count on the resources to keep its operations running and to keep up with technology and cybersecurity innovations. We must also remain vigilant to ensure the safety of New Jersey residents." The DHS Authorization Act establishes a Directorate for Policy to improve policymaking and promote long-term planning. It protects federal dollars by including provisions that reform contracting and improve oversight. This bill also addresses department rivalry by improving information sharing and guarantees that the agency moves in the right direction with regard to science, technology, cybersecurity, and bioterrorism preparedness. "The people of our district lived through the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. They know how important it is to have sufficient personnel and tested procedures in place to prevent and if necessary respond to a devastating emergency. Our duty is to protect them by giving the Department of Homeland Security the funding it needs to operate, and by giving our first responders the tools they need, as well as the confidence in knowing that their representatives are looking out for them," said Congressman Sires.
05.02.2007	The bill enhances state and local law enforcement resources to prevent and prosecute hate crimes For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 3, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to assist local law enforcement in the prosecution and prevention of violent, bias motivated crimes. The Hate Crimes Prevention Act prohibits hate crimes motivated by discrimination. It also broadens federal involvement through legal jurisdiction, provides funding for prevention, and enhances support for local prosecutors. H.R. 1592 focuses on giving state and local law enforcement the tools they need to prevent and prosecute violent hate crimes. "Freedom of speech is one thing, but to cause physical injury is quite another," said Congressman Albio Sires. "Congress must do all it can to prevent the violent hate crimes that not only destroy families, but also permanently scar entire communities with sorrow and painful memories. Proper prosecution and prevention programs will send a stern message to those who might consider violent actions against innocent, unsuspecting victims." The Hate Crimes Prevention Act prohibits hate crimes motivated by race, religion, color, or national origin, as well as gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. It establishes grants to assist local, state, and tribal officials with hate crimes cases and programs to combat crimes committed by juvenile offenders. This legislation also requires the Federal Bureau of Investigation to include crime statistics on gender and gender identity related bias crimes, as well as juvenile victims and offenders. "The sooner we properly acknowledge and document the existence of violent hate crimes, the sooner we can focus on preventing them. Violence and discrimination, especially based on a person's race, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation, casts a shadow of hate on our society. We must adequately prosecute and enforce the laws that protect vulnerable Americans and continue working towards education and tolerance," said Congressman Sires.
05.01.2007	The long overdue reauthorization improves and expands the program For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez May 2, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to reauthorize Head Start, a program that prepares children from birth to five years to arrive at kindergarten with the best possible skills to succeed. H.R. 1429, Improving Head Start Act of 2007, not only expands access to Head Start and improves classroom and teacher quality, it also ensures that funds are utilized efficiently. "The Head Start Program has proven to be an important resource because it levels the playing field for low-income children and their families," said Congressman Sires. "Education is the best tool we can provide to our younger generations; it lays the foundation for success, and makes our economy more competitive globally." Head Start, the national early education program that has served more than 20 million children and their families for over 40 years, helps preschoolers develop early reading and math skills. The program also provides educational, health, nutritional, and social services to children and their families, while engaging parents in their children's learning. The authorization for the Head Start Program expired in FY 2003. The previous two Congresses have failed to send a bill to the President's desk. H.R. 1429, Improving Head Start Act of 2007, expands services to 10,000 more children, and it: increases teacher qualification requirements, directs new funds toward program improvement activities, ensures research-based practices to support children's vocabulary skills, uses the latest science on early brain development to strengthen school readiness and, expands services to additional Migrant and Indian Head Start Programs. An important provision in this bill increases the fiscal controls used by Head Start at the federal and local levels to ensure funds are being used appropriately. Underperforming programs will now have to recompete for their grants, ensuring that they improve or be replaced with more productive procedures. "It is invaluable to have preschoolers prepared for the educational and social challenges that lie ahead for them," said Congressman Sires. "That is why it is so important that Head Start and Early Head Start focus not only on the child but also the parents. Family involvement has been the key to Head Start's success."
04.24.2007	The Darfur Partners for Peace Act comes as the world unites during "Global days For Darfur" For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez April 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - The plight of the people of Darfur in Sudan has united the international community in the observance of "Global Days for Darfur," a week long campaign to raise awareness regarding the genocide taking place in the region. To support these efforts, Congressman Albio Sires became a cosponsor of the Darfur Partners for Peace Act of 2007, which passed the House of Representatives on Wednesday. This bill urges the Arab League to cooperate with the United Nation's peace keeping mission in the region. "The people of Darfur need the help of the international community," said Congressman Albio Sires. "People are being killed, women and girls are being raped and villages are being burned. We cannot stand idly by and continue to allow these atrocities to take place." A humanitarian crisis is growing in Darfur, where Arabic Janjaweed militias are leading a campaign of ethnic cleansing against Sudanese of African descent. The Sudanese government in Khartoum has allowed these crimes to take place. It is accused of blocking humanitarian aid to affected people by restricting access to, delaying, or even denying visas to fleeing citizens. It is estimated that over the last 24 months, 300,000 have been killed; 1.9 million displaced and more than 213,000 people have been forced into neighboring Chad and the Central African Republic. One million Sudanese lives might be in danger of disease and famine, if they are not immediately assisted with food, shelter and medicine. The Arab League allegedly supports and is actively involved in the obstruction of the arrival of United Nations peacekeeping forces. The Darfur Partners for Peace Act strongly urges the Arab League to declare the torture, rape and displacement of Darfurians a genocide, requests its support of the U.N. peacekeepers, and asks that the League work with the U.N., the African Union and the United States Presidential Envoy for Sudan Andrew Natsios, so that peace and stability can come to the region. "The Darfur Partners for Peace Act is an important step towards mending the lives of hundreds of thousands of Darfurians," said Congressman Sires. "Although it is hard for many to imagine the hardships that the people of Darfur have endured, they must never be forgotten and we must act now to end this tragedy."
04.24.2007	The measure provides funding for our troops while establishing a responsible timeline for their withdrawal For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez April 25, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires joined the majority of his colleagues today by voting in support of the conference report for the U.S. Troops Readiness, Veterans' Health and Iraq Accountability Act. The measure sets timelines for the redeployment of U.S. combat troops from Iraq, similar to those suggested by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group and provides needed funding to support our troops. "The majority of Americans support a timeline for the redeployment of our troops and a new direction in Iraq," said Congressman Sires. "It is time to transition our brave men and women from combat missions to the training of Iraqi troops." This measure requests $124.2 billion and provides $4 billion more for our troops than was requested by the President. This includes funding for the replacement and upgrades of tanks and vehicles being used by our troops to ensure their safety while they are in Iraq, as well as funding for a Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund to ensure our troops' readiness needs are met. Funding was also included for military health care and housing, so we can ensure they are cared for once they return home. In addition, this bill honors our veterans by providing $1.8 billion to begin meeting the health care needs of soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. H.R. 1591 also sets goals for the redeployment of American troops based on the progress made by the Iraqi government in meeting diplomatic and security benchmarks. Redeployment would begin, at the very latest, in October 2007, with a goal of being completed by March 2008. The measure also ensures that our troops get adequate rest between tours of duty and that their service in Iraq not be extended beyond one year. "I urge President Bush to sign the U.S. Troops Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act," said Congressman Sires. "This week alone, nine American soldiers were killed and 20 were wounded and we owe it to all of our troops and to their families to support their courageous efforts with this important funding. However, I believe we must also find a way to bring closure to a conflict that seems endless, unless we change the current strategy."
04.22.2007	Congress must reauthorize SCHIP, the State Health Insurance Program For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 23, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - To create awareness for the need to fund SCHIP, the State Health Insurance Program that benefits 6 million children across the nation, Congressman Albio Sires has joined forces with his colleagues in the House of Representatives to promote "Cover the Uninsured" week. The yearly event is sponsored by a broad coalition of groups including the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, AARP, several labor organizations among others that undestand that our children need to continue to benefit from the health insurance provided by the state. "In New Jersey, over a quarter of a million children do not have health insurance," said Congressman Sires. "Children who have health insurance are better prepared to learn in school and face life's challenges, which are why our focus is to expand health coverage." The State Children's Health Insurance Program - or "SCHIP" -- was established by Congress in 1997 to expand health care coverage for children. It provides matching funds to states to help them provide health care coverage for children living in families that are earning too much to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to afford private insurance. This year Congress will be reauthorizing the State Children's Health Insurance Program for another five years. However, the President's budget significantly underfunds SCHIP, not even providing funding to maintain coverage for those children already enrolled. More than one million children would lose coverage under the President's budget. "I will work to support SCHIP in New Jersey and around the country by ensuring that it continues to be fully funded," said Congressman Sires. "We must do our best to ensure they lead healthy lives and to take the strain out of their families' budget."
04.18.2007	The comprehensive bill will allow for the conservation of rivers and harbors nationwide For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez April 19,2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today for the Water Resources Development Act of 2007, a bill that will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to improve rivers, harbors and wetlands across the country. H.R. 1495 authorizes funding for hundreds of projects that provide for hurricane protection, ecosystem and environmental restoration and flood damage reduction projects. "The nor'easter that hit New Jersey this week underlines the dire need for flood control and shoreline protection," said Congressman Sires. "Our 13th Congressional District will also benefit from studies that could enhance public access and recreation in three of our major cities." The Water Resources Development Act authorizes $13.2 billion for construction or feasibility studies of more than 700 water projects by the Army Corps of Engineers. In New Jersey's 13th Congressional District, the funding would allow the Secretary of the Army to carry out the following projects: In Carteret and Bayonne, studies that would determine the feasibility of environmental restoration including improved water quality, enhanced public access, and recreation on the Raritan River and the Kill Van Kull respectively; In Perth Amboy, a study to determine the feasibility of riverfront development including enhanced public access, recreation, and environmental restoration on the Arthur Kill; In Elizabeth, a study to determine the feasibility of carrying out ecosystem restoration improvements in the Elizabeth River watershed. In Jersey City, the continued restoration of 234 acres of Liberty State Park, which will ultimately result in the reintroduction of tidal wetland habitat, protection and enhancement of freshwater wetlands, and the management of allied terrestrial buffer habitats under the guidance of the Army Corp of Engineers. The Watershed Development Act also requires private contractors to employ local residents to make up no less than 50% of the workforce on the water projects in those areas. "This bill will not only put our local residents to work, it will begin to contribute to the conservation and restoration of our precarious ecosystem for future generations," said Congressman Sires.
03.29.2007	Rep. Sires is joined by Carteret Mayor Daniel Reiman; proud to offer services to constituents For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 30, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) opened one of four congressional district offices in the Borough of Carteret. The facility, located in the Thomas J. Deverin Community Center, will serve constituents that need assistance with services in various federal government agencies. "I am pleased to make our services available to local constituents," said Congressman Sires. "I also look forward to hearing from our Central Jersey community, so that I can respond to their needs on the federal level." The Carteret District office is located at 100 Cooke Avenue on the second floor. Congressional office staff can answer questions or address any concerns and inquiries about services offered by the following federal agencies: the Social Security Administration, Medicare, U.S. Citizen and Immigration Services and Veterans Administration, and the Internal Revenue Service. Congressman Sires also selected Carteret as one of the locations for the district offices so he can contribute to the positive changes the borough has undergone since 2002. Mayor Daniel Reiman was on hand to welcome area residents. "The many successes Carteret and New Jersey have been experiencing are owed in no small part to the quality of leadership found in representatives like Congressman Sires," Mayor Reiman stated. "It is with much pride that we will be welcoming him to Carteret and look forward to having him closer to some of the regional progress he has been a catalyst for." "I am proud to represent all the residents of this region," said Rep. Sires. "As your Congressman, I will always be attentive to their needs, and hope they make us aware of their concerns so our district can remain a safe and prosperous one."
03.29.2007	The Democratic Budget Resolution puts American families first and safeguards our children's future For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 29, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Looking to restore fiscal responsibility and reverse the detrimental economic trends created in the last 6 years, Congressman Albio Sires voted in support of the 2008 Democratic Budget Resolution. This budget balances in 2012, putting a stop to deficits, while regaining control of our economic future. "To have a lower deficit in fiscal year 2008 and $234 billion lower over the next five years puts us in more control of our spending," said Congressman Sires. "This budget sets guidelines that eliminate wasteful spending, and makes our government more efficient in vital areas like Social Security, Medicare and the Department of Defense." The Democratic House Budget serves Americans that need it most. It takes care of our children, seniors, veterans and middle-income families. In New Jersey alone, the resolution: Increases funding for the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which will help the more than 250,500 children that do not have health insurance in New Jersey access care. By providing health services to our neediest children, we can ensure that they grow into strong and healthy young adults. Provides more funding for New Jersey Public Schools, benefiting the almost 1.4 million elementary, middle and high school students. This will help our schools pay for high quality programs that will help our children have access to the best quality reading, writing, mathematics, and science education. Protects middle-income families from a tax increase by setting up a reserve fund for the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). In New Jersey, 228,000 families were subject to the AMT in 2004, and if nothing is done, over 1,600,000 will be subject to the tax in 2007. Provides for the largest veterans' budget increase in history. The almost 600,000 New Jersey veterans deserve to have excellent health care and VA health care facilities. The budget speeds up and improves the accuracy of disability claims processing as well. The House Democratic Budget also provides funds for the implementation of the 9/11 Commission recommendations, which is so vital to the safety of New Jersey residents living in areas of high risk. It also allows additional funding to be used towards under funded Port Security Grants. The House Budget also restores full funding for Amtrak, the passenger railway service. Without the $393 million dollars the President had proposed cutting from the $1.9 million it needs to operate, this valuable service to New Jersey commuters would eventually shut down. "It is our duty to clean up the fiscal mess we have been left with," said Congressman Sires. "The pay-as-you-go principle brought surpluses in the 1990s. Performance reviews will eliminate unnecessary spending and make sure government programs are working." The House Democratic Budget rejects the President's cuts to Small Business, the State Homeland Security Grant Program, as well as $1 million in cuts to children's health care and $300 billion to Medicare and Medicaid over the next 10 years.
03.20.2007	Testifies before the House Foreign Affairs Committee For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 21, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee regarding his bill, H.R. 1325, the Partnership for Iraq Reconstruction Act. This bill requires the Iraqi Government to match all U.S. funds used for reconstruction in Iraq. It would also require the President to report to Congress on the implementation of this Act. Tom Lantos, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee commented the following after Congressman Sires' testimony: "Rep Sires provided thought-provoking testimony on his legislation concerning the most pressing foreign policy issue that America confronts today - the conflict in Iraq. The legislation is thoughtful and serious. I appreciate this opportunity to hear from him, and the Committee will consider the legislation carefully." The following is Congressman Sires' testimony as prepared for delivery: Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you and my colleagues for allowing me to testify before the Committee today regarding my bill, H.R. 1325, the Partnership for Iraq Reconstruction Act. The ultimate goal of this bill is to hold the Iraqi Government and its leaders accountable for their progress by giving them a greater stake in the reconstruction efforts. H.R. 1325 would require the Iraqi Government to match, dollar for dollar, all U-S funds that are spent on reconstruction in Iraq. The language was drafted intentionally to be general in nature. The idea is not to have the Iraqi Government submit matching funds for each individual contract or grant, but to simply have U-S funds matched. These funds could be used in areas where they see fit or in conjunction with a U-S funded project. I understand there are concerns that the Iraqi Government may not have enough money to match U.S. funding for reconstruction efforts. However, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice recently testified before this Committee that the Iraqi Government is committing $10 billion of its own funds for reconstruction. In the upcoming Supplemental Appropriations bill, $2.3 billion are going towards Iraq reconstruction. The $10 billion the Iraqi Government has designated for reconstruction efforts is more than enough to begin matching the funds appropriated by Congress. Mr. Chairman, what better place is there for the Iraqi Government to invest its money besides its own infrastructure, its own people and its own future? I think all of my colleagues can agree that reconstruction in Iraq must continue in order to guarantee progress and to help foster economic growth for the Iraqi people. We have seen many extremist groups in the Middle East feed off the failure of governments to provide services for their citizens because of corruption and mismanagement. We have two very good examples in Hamas and Hezbollah. We must make sure that similar extremist groups and factions do not start taking hold of Iraq. I believe that requiring the Iraqi Government to fund reconstruction projects will help give them credibility in the eyes of the Iraqi people. This also provides a united front by showing the factions within Iraq that the government is committed to the stabilization and progress of the country. Mr. Chairman, the Iraqi Government believes $100 billion dollars is needed over the next four years to rebuild the country's infrastructure. The U-S has already committed more than $38 billion to Iraq reconstruction - over one third of the funds needed. I believe the U-S must continue to help Iraq with its reconstruction efforts. However, the Iraqi Government must also show its people that the government cares and is investing in their well-being and progress.
03.19.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 20, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Tom Lantos, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives named Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. "I welcome the opportunity to serve in this more prominent role on the subcommittee, and look forward to working towards better improving our policy and relationships with Mexico, Canada, Latin America, and Caribbean nations," said Congressman Sires. As Vice Chair, Congressman Sires represents the Subcommittee Chairman in his absence. His duties include presiding over hearings, representing the subcommittee at meetings with dignitaries, and managing debates on the House floor.
03.19.2007	Without funding, the passenger rail service would begin to see its final days For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 20, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Understanding the need for Amtrak, the passenger railway service vital to New Jersey passengers, Congressman Albio Sires has written a letter to House Committee Budget Chairman John Spratt requesting full restoration of the $1.9 million budget it needs to operate. My home state of New Jersey relies heavily upon the Northeast Corridor Rails to help link New Jersey's extensive rail system with Manhattan. This creates economic stability in the region by providing businesses with workers that have public means to travel between New Jersey and New York. In addition, many of my constituents count on Amtrak service for travel throughout the Northeast and across the country, wrote Congressman Sires. President Bush's Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Proposal only provides for $900 million, resulting in $393 million in cuts. Congressman Sires fears this reduction in funding would force Amtrak to shut down. Last year Amtrak's 19,000 served an estimated 25 million passengers. Congressman Sires wants to make sure employees and customers can continue to rely on the railway system.
03.18.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 19, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires released the following statement as the Iraq War enters its fifth year: "This week, Congress will have the opportunity to make good on the promise we made last year: a new direction on Iraq. The Iraq Supplemental Spending bill will allow us to attempt to turn around the failed strategy in Iraq. Our plan will require accountability from the Bush Administration and the Iraqi government while setting a timeline for a phased redeployment of American combat troops. "Americans have demanded change in Iraq and the passage of the Iraq Supplemental Spending bill will help bring about that change by putting an end to President Bush's open-ended commitment to this Iraqi civil war, while requiring the Iraqis to play a more prominent role in their own future. "As the Iraq war enters its fifth year, we will keep supporting our troops that are coming home and making sure that the troops who are still on the ground in Iraq have the equipment they need to keep themselves safe."
03.11.2007	The Partnership for Iraq Reconstruction Act requires the Iraqi government to match all U.S. funds For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 12, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today Congressman Albio Sires introduced legislation which would hold the Iraqi Government accountable for rebuilding their country and ensure they take a more active role in reconstruction efforts. H.R. 1325, the Partnership for Iraq Reconstruction Act, would require the Iraqi Government to match all U.S. funds used for reconstruction in Iraq. "The Iraqi Government estimates that $100 billion is needed over the next fours years to rebuild the country's infrastructure. The United States has already committed more than $38 billion; over one third of the funds needed. The Iraqi Government must also take responsibility for helping to rebuild their country and U.S. spending cannot be open-ended," said Congressman Sires. Currently, the Iraqi Government is committing $10 billion of its own resources for reconstruction efforts. H.R. 1325 would require that the Iraqi government make available matching funds for all future money the United States allocates for reconstruction assistance. The bill would also require the President to report to Congress on the implementation of this Act. "Reconstruction in Iraq must continue in order to guarantee progress and to help foster economic growth," said Congressman Sires. "This bill would hold the Iraqi government and its people accountable for their progress by giving them a greater stake in the reconstruction efforts."
03.06.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 7, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires issued the following statement in support of International Women's Day and House Resolution 149. "On International Women's Day, we must honor the contributions of women in today's society and continue to the fight for their equality around the world. "I was proud to be part of history the day Nancy Pelosi was sworn-in as the first woman Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. Recently the international community has witnessed Chile elect its first female President, Michele Bachelet. The African continent will certainly benefit from Liberian President, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, and the Germans elected Angela Merkel as their first woman Chancellor. We must continue to stand up for women around the world who fight everyday to make a difference and also to advocate on behalf of those women who are still suffering as victims of violence, abuse, and oppression. "By supporting House Resolution 149, we are reaffirming our commitment to the advancement of women around the globe. We must end violence against women, protect their human rights, and celebrate the valuable contributions they have made in our country and the international community."
03.04.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 5, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (New York) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires, member of the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises of the House of Representatives Financial Services Committee, attended a public hearing today in Manhattan City Council Chambers. The hearing, entitled "The Need to Extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act", consisted of two panels of witnesses that included federal, state, and local officials as well as developers, brokers, insures and lenders affected by the imminent end of TRIEA, the two-year extension of the government backstop on December 31, 2007. After the events of 9-11, insurers cannot estimate the financial risk of a terror attack and are unable to price their product. They would be forced to set very high prices or withdraw from the marketplace. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, a public-private partnership, allows insurers and lenders to continue to offer services. The extension of the Federal backstop also deters developers from delaying construction projects close to the TRIA extension deadline for fear of not being able to secure the financial services they need. "TRIA has been successful. It has allowed real estate investors, mortgage brokers and insurers to offer services, and developers to plan the construction projects that help create thousands of jobs," said Congressman Sires. "Terrorism risk is the reality of our post-9-11 world and we should continue to look for a permanent solution to this financial challenge." The hearing also focused on the lack of coverage for nuclear, biological, chemical, and radioactive terrorist threats in the insurance market, and the need to modify TRIA to include homegrown terrorist attacks.
03.01.2007	PROGRESS Act initiates a robust national program - akin to the Manhattan Project on energy independence For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 2, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Yesterday, Majority Leader Hoyer introduced the PROGRESS Act, or the Program for Real Energy Security Act. Congressman Sires joined the Majority Leader in calling for serious action to end the nation's dependence on oil. The PROGRESS Act would: Establish a bipartisan National Energy Security Commission, bringing together government, industry and academic leaders to develop consensus on national goals on energy - which Congress must act upon under expedited rules. Second, it would establish a New Manhattan Center for High Efficiency Vehicles, seeking to double the average vehicle efficiency and to diversify fuel types. Third, this bill would establish a National Biofuels Infrastructure Development Program, providing grants to encourage the private sector to invest in wholesale and retail biofuel pumps, tanks and related distribution equipment. Fourth, it calls for a stimulus package to upgrade the "pipeline" for biofuels - the freight rail system - while also providing grants to promote conservation alternatives such as public transit and commuter rail. And fifth, this bill would increase the use of alternative fuels in federal fleets. The federal government is one of the leading owners of vehicle fleets and consumers of petroleum products, and it must lead by example. Congressman Sires appeared with five other Democrats at yesterday's press conference. Congressman Sires made the following statement supporting the PROGRESS Act: "I first want to thank Majority Leader Hoyer for his leadership in this important area. And I appreciate the opportunity to talk today about our country's addiction to oil. The PROGRESS Act does many good things, as my colleagues have discussed. But I would like to focus on the role of our partners in this effort. As a former Mayor and Assembly Speaker in New Jersey, I appreciate that this Act involves our regional, State, and local partners. It recognizes that the only way we can solve the problem of oil addiction is by working together. Let me highlight a few points. The National Biofuels Infrastructure Development Program established by this Act reimburses our private sector partners who invest in biofuel equipment. And the National Energy Security Commission brings together government, industry, and academic leaders to develop national goals and recommendations that respect regional energy solutions. New Jersey, my home State, recognizes the importance of working together. The State is a member of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. Additionally, the State utilized research in crafting its Energy Master Plan which reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020. New Jersey has shown to be a leader in this area. We need to follow their lead and work together by passing the PROGRESS Act to reduce our dependence on oil. Thank you."
02.28.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez March 1, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Sires attended the first hearing for the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere concerning United States policy toward Latin America. Congressman Sires expressed his concerns to Assistant Secretary of State Thomas Shannon about the lack of attention to and the reduction of funding for Latin America: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Assistant Secretary Shannon, in reviewing the budget for the Western Hemisphere, I have noticed the cuts in assistance that we are providing this region. "I am very concerned about this since at the same time we have seen the election of Presidents in Latin America that are not supportive of the United States and our democratic goals. For example, there is Evo Morales in Bolivia who has decriminalized coca cultivation and increased ties to Cuba and Venezuela. In Nicaragua, there is Daniel Ortega who we are unsure of what his position is because he continues his anti-U.S. rhetoric. "And now to make matters worse, we have seen the President of Iran touring Latin America and building relationships with Latin American countries. "The Administration's request for 2008 reduces funding for Child Survival and Health Programs by over $35 million. In addition, the President's budget proposes cutting over $5 million in assistance to Bolivia. By decreasing our involvement in this area, the U.S. is creating a void that is allowing other countries that are anti the United States, like Iran, to step in and fill. I see these cuts as highly problematic and I look forward to discussing the Administration's rationale for these reductions later during this hearing." As a member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Congressman Sires will continue to ask tough questions to this Administration about their Latin American policy.
02.27.2007	H.R. 556 would prevent business transactions from becoming national security concerns For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 28, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, the House of Representatives voted to strengthen the process by which the Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States (CFIUS) evaluates foreign investments in the United States. H.R. 556, the National Security FIRST Act, insures new business transactions do not pose a threat to our national security. "This bill prevents situations like the one created by the sale of port operations to Dubai Ports World," said Congressman Albio Sires. "Operations in Port Newark, which is located in my congressional district, would have been one of six sold this company, which is owned by the United Arab Emirates. Due to problems with the CFIUS process, this deal did not go through the scrutiny that would have put our security concerns to rest." H.R. 556 requires the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States or CFIUS, to conduct a 30-day review of any national security-related business transaction. If the review determines the transaction threatens to impair our national security, this bill demands a full-scale 45-day investigation and requires that CFIUS high-ranking officials sign off on the deal. "New Jersey's 13th District is one of the most vulnerable to terrorism in the country. Members of Congress need to be made aware of any potential threat to our national security, and these effective measures need to be implemented so that we can do everything in our power to protect our country. I believe that H.R. 556 will solve the flaws with the CIFIUS process," said Congressman Sires.
02.15.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 16, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires voted in support of H.Con.Res. 63, the Iraq War Policy Resolution, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246-182. Over the last four days, Republicans and Democrats have debated the resolution on the floor of the House of Representatives. "I believe the American people deserve to see a real debate and have a vote on the President's plan for a troop surge in Iraq. I support this resolution because of the brave servicemen and women of this nation that have been deployed since 9/11. The President has not listened to the American people and has failed to provide a plan for success in Iraq. "Congress has appropriated $379 billion for the war in Iraq and another $235 billion is slated for the upcoming supplemental appropriations. The United States has already committed $38 billion to Iraq Reconstruction projects across the country. The Iraqi government believes $100 billion will be needed of the next four years to rebuild the country's infrastructure. "It concerns me that since Iraqi rebuilding projects started, the Coalition Provision Authority cannot account for almost $9 billion in reconstruction funds and $4 billion is being lost every year due to a lack of oversight and quality management. The Administration has failed to give us the necessary oversight for these efforts. "This wasted money could have been used here in the United States to combat poverty, improve our schools, invest in affordable housing, health care, our veterans and our elderly. As a Member of Congress, I fully support this resolution and this effort. Our troops and my constituents can no longer afford to have this Congress support the Administration's failed policies in Iraq."
02.14.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 15, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires gave the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives during debate on H.Con.Res. 63, the Iraq War Policy Resolution: "Madame Speaker, I rise today in support of this resolution on behalf of the 32,000 men and women from my state of New Jersey and all the other servicemen and women that have been deployed since 9/11. I am so proud of their sacrifice and service to our nation and I will continue to support them. I'm standing in front of you as a product of the sacrifices our soldiers have made in the name of liberty and freedom throughout the history of this country. I also rise on behalf of my constituents, the people of New Jersey and the people of this nation whose tax dollars are paying for this war in Iraq. "Since the beginning of the war, $379 billion has already been appropriated and another $235 billion is slated for the upcoming supplemental appropriations. We are currently spending $8 billion a month in Iraq and the American people are footing the bill. All this money could have been used to declare war on some of our domestic problems here at home such as poverty, improving our schools, ensuring access to health care, and investing in affordable housing. This money could have been used to invest in our children, our families, our veterans and our elderly. But, it wasn't. "Instead, American taxpayers have also committed more than $38 billion to Iraq Reconstruction. About 33 percent of this money is targeted for infrastructure projects like roads, sanitation, water, electric power and oil production. However, I am concerned that: Only 25 percent of the Iraqi population has access to drinkable water. Of 136 sanitation and water projects, only 49 are set to be completed. Residents in Baghdad only have 4 and a half hours of electricity per day, and Current oil production in Iraq is half of what it was prior to the war. "Since the reconstruction projects started, the Coalition Provisional Authority can't account for almost $9 billion of taxpayer money. Every year, $4 billion is being lost because of lack of oversight. There have also been many problems with poor project and quality management. For example: The Baghdad Police College cost $75 million and was built without proper plumbing for waste water. It has become a health and structural hazard. The Basrah Children's Hospital is running $48 million over budget and is a year behind schedule. And, after spending $186 million, Parsons has only 6 of 150 planned health care centers completed and only 14 more will be finished. "The list goes on and on. Madame Speaker, the Iraqi government says $100 billion is needed over the next 4 years to rebuild the country's infrastructure. Madame Speaker, the Iraqi Government seems to think they have open access to U.S. dollars, because their government is currently sitting on $10 billion that could be used to help rebuild Iraq. The Iraqi government and the Iraqi people MUST take responsibility and help rebuild their country. Our support is not open-ended and neither are our tax dollars. "Madame Speaker, I support this resolution and this debate because our troops and our constituents can no longer afford to have this Congress support the Administration's failed Iraq policies. They FAILED to give us the necessary oversight for Iraq reconstruction efforts, they FAILED to listen to the advice of military commanders, they FAILED to listen to the American people, and as a result, they FAILED to provide a plan for success in Iraq. "Thank you Madame Speaker and I yield back the balance of my time."
02.14.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 15, 2007 (201) 222-2828 "The security of our ports in a post 9/11 environment is vital to keep our country safe. It is important that port operations are taken over by U.S. personnel as soon as possible, and it is the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey that is making the demands that are delaying the sale. "Port Newark is in the 13th Congressional District, and I, like Senator Menendez before me, will do everything possible to keep it safe. "Dubai Ports World should be able to finalize the sale of its port operations in 6 major cities in the United States without having to negotiate the payment $84 million with The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. "While the sale should be fair, negotiations have gone on for a considerable amount of time; and the additional Port Authority money demand should not have become an obstacle. I call on The Port Authority to expedite negotiations so that our country's port operations are regarded as some of the safest in the world."
02.07.2007	The research and development of new technologies will move our country towards energy independence For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 8, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to start the vital process of offering the American people an alternative at the gas pump. H.R. 547, the Advanced Fuels Infrastructure Research and Development Act, makes biofuels like E85 ethanol easier to access and use. "There's a long way to go before consumers have more fuel choices, but we have to take the first step," said Congressman Albio Sires. "This bill speeds up that process in that it allows for research into making biofuels more compatible with existing infrastructure, which means we can get biofuels to gas tanks sooner." Many biofuels have different physical and chemical properties that make them incompatible with petroleum-based infrastructure. Tank and pipeline corrosion, sediment buildup and clogged filters can result if other substances are pumped into the existing systems. H.R. 547 directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in consultation with the Department of Energy (DOE) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to research and develop new technologies. This saves fuel distributors and retailers the extremely high cost of updating or refurbishing infrastructure. "Alternative fuels are already a reality in Brazil where E85 is part of daily life. Americans should have the freedom of diversity, not only easing the cost of the fuels they need, but also ensuring a cleaner environment and less dependence on foreign oil for future generations," said Congressman Sires.
02.06.2007	Rep. Sires congratulates Jersey City resident Calvin Earl for his artistic contribution For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 7, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today in support of a resolution to recognize the African American spiritual as a national treasure. The music was created by enslaved Africans to keep their traditions alive through songs and stories. The melodies and lyrics, known today as spirituals, have become part of the fabric of America. "I am proud to be able to contribute to this long overdue recognition," said Congressman Sires. "I am pleased the vote for this resolution took place during Black History Month when we recognize the valuable contributions of African Americans to our great nation." Congressman Sires also recognized Jersey City resident Calvin Earl in a speech he gave today on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the resolution. Mr. Earl, a musician and storyteller, has made it his life's mission to educate others through entertainment about the rich history of the African American spirituals. "I congratulate Calvin Earl for devoting his talents to teaching an essential part of our country's history. The beauty of the African American spirituals and their messages enrich our lives, and will now be preserved for future generations," said Congressman Sires.
02.01.2007	Rep. Sires got his wish: to fight for those in need of a decent and affordable place to live For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez February 2, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Representative Albio Sires (NJ-13), member of the Financial Services Committee has been assigned to the Capital Markets, Insurance, and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee and the Housing and Community Development Programs Subcommittee of the House of Representatives. "I am proud to have a voice in areas that affect the lives of millions," said Congressman Sires. "The protection of their hard-earned money, and adequate housing costs, are key to a better future for American families." The jurisdiction of the Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee includes oversight of the U.S. banking industry, consumer credit, predatory lending, and interest rates as well as international free trade agreements. The Housing and Community Development Programs Subcommittee includes HUD, the Department of Urban Development, which provides rental assistance for low income families, Section 8 and public housing, and makes homeownership possible for millions. "I look forward to making a difference in the lives of our hard-working people who deserve security and accountability from our financial institutions and a place to live that they can be proud of. I will work hard to secure financial growth and stability for our future generations," said Congressman Sires.
01.30.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 31, 2007 (201) 222-2828 "The increase in the cost of applying for citizenship or a green card proposed by the USCIS puts living legally in the United States out of reach for thousands," said Congressman Sires. "Many undocumented immigrants earn less than the average worker, and would have to dedicate hundreds of hours of their labor just to save enough money to submit their applications. There is no guarantee they will be granted the legal status." "The federal agency has been bogged down by more security precautions after the 9-11 attacks and an antiquated paper system, but the extra money would only reduce most of the processing time by 20%. Although the USCIS operates exclusively with the fees it receives from applicants, increments should be fair." "I hope that the 60-day public comment period will allow advocates to voice their concerns and are taken into account. A comprehensive immigration reform will pave the way for undocumented immigrants to achieve the American Dream. I strongly believe they should follow the rules, but I also believe they should not have to decide between putting food on the table and paying for an application for residency or citizenship."
01.22.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 23, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman Albio Sires was appointed to serve on three subcommittees of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rep. Sires will serve as a member of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment (including Central Asia), the Subcommittee on Europe, and the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. "The many emerging democratic nations around the world are crucial to their own national and regional stability," said Congressman Sires. "As a member of this Committee, I have a unique opportunity to help forge lasting relations between the American people and the international community. I look forward to learning more about all of the regions under my jurisdiction and helping to improve cultural and political understanding between our societies." The regional subcommittees on which Congressman Sires will serve have jurisdiction over a number of issues including: political relations between the United States and countries within the region, disaster assistance, legislation and oversight regarding human rights practices, oversight over matters related to the regional activities of the United Nations, and oversight of all foreign assistance activities affecting the region. In addition to its regional jurisdiction, the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment, oversees international environmental policy, international fishing agreements, and scientific developments that may affect foreign policy. This will also include issues related to global warming and climate change. "As a Hispanic legislator and a Cuban, I hope to provide valuable insight and knowledge to the subcommittees on which I serve," said Congressman Sires. "At a time when the United States and Americans are so ill perceived by nations abroad, we must work within the global community to improve our current standing in the world."
01.21.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 23, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Representative Albio Sires (NJ-13) voted today to deny congressional pension benefits to House members convicted of corruption. H.R. 476 ensures tax dollars do not fund the retirement of those who violate the law. "Recent bribery scandals have eroded the confidence the American people place in their elected officials," said Congressman Albio Sires. "To pay convicted House members their full pensions after accepting bribes and committing perjury is a slap in the face of our constituents." This bill is a component of ethics reform. It requires that Members convicted of certain federal felonies related to the performance of their official duties forfeit their congressional pension rights. "House Members must know that they are not above the law. We must remain vigilant of corrupt politicians especially while they are the people's voices in Congress," said Sires. "As representatives, we must be held to a higher standard."
01.17.2007	Legislation reorders energy priorities For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 18, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires and his colleagues in the House of Representatives today took an important step towards energy independence. H.R. 6, the Clean Energy Act of 2007, passed ensuring a re-direction of U.S. energy policy and taxpayer dollars. "By repealing billion dollar subsidies to oil companies and using the funds to promote alternative energy technology we can help start prying our nation away from oil dependency," said Congressman Albio Sires. "This bill also ensures that companies that were awarded leases for drilling rights pay their fair share in royalties." Last year, the big five oil companies received almost 100 billion dollars in additional government subsidies, while consumers paid historically high prices at the pump. That money should have instead funded energy-efficient policy that promotes investment in alternative energy products. That is what this bill does. "The implementation of energy efficient technology will put more American innovators and engineers to work, as well as create hundreds of thousands of new jobs," said Congressman Sires. "Not only are we saving money, we are also investing it in our natural and human resources here at home."
01.16.2007	Cutting interest rates on subsidized student loans will save the average student thousands of dollars For Immediate Release January 17, 2007 Contact: Olga Alvarez (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted to cut interest rates on subsidized student loans, saving the typical student in New Jersey up to $4,600 over the life of their loans. "College tuition is soaring out of reach for American students. The average student graduates with $17,500 in loan debt; almost 45% more that just 11years ago," said Congressman Sires. "This bill assists low- and middle-income families meet their true potential, and helps them achieve the American Dream." There are over 61,000 four-year college students with subsidized loans in the State of New Jersey. With the passage of H.R. 5 today, interest rates will be cut from the current 6.8% to 3.4% by July 1, 2011. "It is in our best interest to make college affordable to our youth," said Congressman Albio Sires. "As a former teacher I understand how important education is to every child. It ensures that everyone has the opportunity to succeed and to make the most of their dreams. In addition, a highly skilled, well-educated workforce strengthens our nation by keeping us competitive in a global economy. It ensures future generations a better quality of life."
01.11.2007	Rep. Sires voted to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate with drug companies For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 12, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today to repeal the provision that prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services from negotiating with drug companies for lower prices for Medicare beneficiaries. This allows the agency to exert its bargaining power with drug companies to benefit millions of seniors and disabled persons. "It is our job to take care of those most in need. Medicare beneficiaries should have the peace of mind of knowing that they are paying the lowest possible price for their medicines," said Congressman Albio Sires. "Bargaining for lower prices will not hurt the industry but will allow more flexibility and keep high prices in check." The 2003 Medicare Rx Drug Law, that created the prescription drug plan, included a provision that prohibited the government from negotiating with drug companies for lower prices. This bill requires HHS to conduct cost-saving negotiations. H.R. 4 also provides the Secretary with broad discretion on how best to implement the negotiating authority. The bill does not require a particular list of covered drugs to be used by Medicare prescription drug plans, nor does it prohibit access to any specific prescription medication. The Department of Health and Human Services will be closely monitored. H.R. 4 requires updates starting June 1, 2007 to be presented to various Congressional Committees as well as a report on the negotiations conducted by the Secretary. "We should use our system of checks and balances to ensure seniors and the disabled pay less for their prescription drugs," said Congressman Sires.
01.10.2007	100 Million American families affected by life-threatening disease may look forward to renewed hope for their loved ones For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 11, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today for the DeGette-Castle Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R.3) that significantly expands federal funding for this potentially life-saving research. "I was proud to be Speaker of the New Jersey State Assembly when we passed the law that allowed stem cell research opportunities," said Congressman Sires. "I am thrilled to have the chance to move stem cell research forward once again by supporting legislation that will allow federal funding to be used for this exciting area of scientific research." The DeGette-Castle bill expands the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by lifting the restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines which can be used for federally funded research. Most of the stem cell lines previously authorized for research under the President's policy are no longer useful. H.R. 3 only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. This legislation also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidelines of the National Institutes of Health. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives in May of 2005 and the U.S. Senate in July 2006, but was vetoed by President Bush. "Whether it is a family member with Alzheimer's, a neighbor with Parkinson's, or a friend with diabetes, we all know someone who has been touched by disease that could possibly be cured or treated by stem cell derived therapies," said Congressman Sires. "The passing of this bill could potentially give patients a new lease on life, and their families the hope they need to lift their spirits while they continue caring for their infirmed loved ones." Seventy-two percent of Americans support the expansion of stem cell research. The recent study regarding amniotic fluid stem cells is exciting, but it is critical to remember that every type of stem cell is different and has varying potential for research.
01.09.2007	Representative Sires continues his commitment to American workers For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 10, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - {Today, Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) voted with his colleagues in the House of Representatives to increase the national minimum wage from $5.15 per hour to $7.25 per hour. The long overdue Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 ends a nine year period without an increase. (En Espanol) "I am proud to be a member of Congress at a time when I can help the nearly 13 million American workers that will benefit from an increase in the minimum wage, including the almost 2.8 million Hispanic workers and 2.4 million African-American workers whose quality of life will be greatly improved by this legislation," said Congressman Sires. H.R.2 increases the minimum wage by $2.10 over two years. The bill raises the minimum wage to $5.85 sixty days after enactment; to $6.55 one year later, and to $7.25 one year after that. Single parents and minority women will greatly benefit from the increase, as well as millions of Americans living in poverty. This legislation is instrumental in fostering the development of a stronger and more robust middle class. "We must reaffirm the American Dream that rewards hard work with good pay and the opportunity to support strong and healthy families," said Congressman Sires. An increase in the minimum wage will help working families meet critical needs such as food, rent, and healthcare.
01.08.2007	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 9, 2007 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C.- Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced today that the House Democratic Steering Committee approved a second committee assignment for Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) to the prestigious Foreign Affairs Committee. Committee jurisdiction includes relations with foreign nations, international economic policy, international commodity agreements including all agreements for cooperation in the export of nuclear technology and hardware, protection of American Citizens abroad and expatriation, and the United Nations Organizations. "I look forward to serving on a committee that allows us to review our nation's foreign policy especially our policy toward the Middle East," said Congressman Sires. "It is a privilege to be afforded the opportunity to participate in the restoration of America's prestige and to work towards strengthening our diplomatic relations with the international community. " Tom Lantos (D-CA) will Chair the committee. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) will serve as the ranking Republican member on the committee The Foreign Affairs Committee will hold a series of hearings on Iraq this month.
01.08.2007	The House of Representatives passes the bill that implements the unfulfilled recommendations For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 9, 2007 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Albio Sires voted today in support of H.R. 1 which implements the unfulfilled recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, and puts America on the road to safety. (En Espanol) "Two of the most dangerous miles in the nation are located in the 13th District of New Jersey, and the bill passed today reassures our residents that we are taking vital steps to keep them safe from terror attacks," said Congressman Albio Sires. "There is no doubt that our district is one of the most vulnerable, and it is imperative that we have the appropriate funds to protect and defend ourselves from terrorism." The bill includes important provisions that will improve our security such as : -Increasing the share of state homeland security grants provided on the basis of risk - A stand-alone grant program that will provide first responders with equipment which allows them to communicate with one another during an emergency; - Strengthening of aviation security by phasing in a requirement of 100% screening of the cargo on passenger aircraft, and - Accelerating the installation of explosive detection systems for checked baggage and improving the explosive detection systems at passenger checkpoints in our nation's airports. This bill also phases in, over then next five years, a requirement that 100% of the containers leaving the largest ports overseas will be screened. Our district is home to Port Elizabeth, the largest container seaport on the East Coast and the destination for many of these containers. Containers in international ports will be scanned for radiation and density prior to being loaded onto ships bound for the United States. The 9/11 Commission bill also includes provisions to better prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction and provides for the establishment of a Middle East Foundation. The foundation would help to counter extremism abroad by promoting economic opportunities, education reform, human rights and democratic processes in Middle East nations. "We must do what it takes to ensure that terrorism doesn't once again reach our soil. New Jersey's terror threat requires greater efforts to keep our residents safe. I am confident we are on the road to restoring peace of mind to our community and to the individuals who live closest to potential danger," said Congressman Sires.
01.04.2007	Congressman Albio Sires (NJ-13) votes for transparency before special interests For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez January 5, 2007 (201) 222-2828 Washington, D.C. - Shortly after being sworn into the 110th Congress, Representative Albio Sires got to work along with his colleagues on the first 100 legislative hours. Opening the agenda was an aggressive ethics reform package that bans gifts from lobbyists and requires full disclosure of congressionally directed projects. The Honest Leadership and Open Government package passed in the US House of Representatives eliminating secret deals between legislators and special interests. Earmark reform will implement full disclosure requiring members to certify that the funds will be used for the public good. "Throughout history, there has been an ongoing struggle to put the people's interest ahead of special interests," said Congressman Sires. "With this legislation we put an end to this age-old struggle. The 110th Congress has been given a mandate by the people to make sure their's are the voices that are heard." This morning, ethics reform continued. The Civility and Fiscal Responsibility package prohibits holding votes open for the sole purpose of affecting the outcome. In addition, pay-as- you-go budgeting forces congress to act as all Americans do by balancing their check books. "As we start the 110th Congress, we must govern our own chamber in a manner that represents the interests of our constituents." That is why I proudly supported these measures.
12.29.2006	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez December 30, 2006 (201) 222-2828 (Washington, D.C.) - The better part this election year has been a struggle. Many elected officials and their challengers running for office encountered controversy. Our fates hinged on our reputations, past performance and credibility. As personal as some races became, in the end, the voters were smarter than the strategists. The voters spoke loud and clear, demanding a change in course in Iraq. They voiced their concern for the corruption that has compromised the integrity of the legislative process. They have asked for affordable medicine, education costs that won't become a life-long burden for their children, and a fair minimum wage. Americans demanded a new direction, and entrusted Democrats to take the helm. We promise to acknowledge their demands during the first 100 hours in Congress. I was sworn in on November 13 as a freshman in the House of Representatives. I left the familiar faces of the Mayor's Office in West New York and the Speakership of the New Jersey State Assembly to represent my constituents in Congress. In Washington, continuing to improve people's lives will be the focus of my energy. This responsibility is sobering. It becomes very real when I come back home and shake the hand of an elderly constituent that needs cheaper medicine, or of the single Mom who pleads with me to afford relief when it comes time to pay for her children's college education. I know that the Democratic agenda outlined in the first hundred hours will fulfill the demands Americans made for a new direction, and the promises I made to the people of the 13th District. On January 4 we will start fulfilling our promises. Democrats will begin by adopting an ethics reform package that will make this the most honest and open Congress in history. We will look to sever the ties between lobbyists and legislators, banning gifts and trips, as well as ending the abuse connected to privately funded congressional travel. We will abandon the practice of rushing bills through Congress in the dead of night. Democrats will ensure representatives, on both sides of the isle; that they have time to read legislation. In addition, budget deficits need to be addressed. We cannot and must not pass trillions of dollars of debt on to our children. We will look to change the house rules to restore pay-as-you-go budgeting. This will begin to reverse the record budget deficits we have acquired in the last 5 years. During the remainder of the first 100 hours of Congress, we will introduce legislation that will impact the daily lives of the people of New Jersey. The Six for '06 Agenda includes: improving health care by requiring Medicare to negotiate for lower prescription drug prices; raising the minimum wage, and making college more affordable by cutting interest rates on student loans. We will work with members of both parties to ensure their passage. This election year, I have looked the people of my district in the eye and promised them a better future. Democrats in Congress will not disappoint. I want to shake the hands of my constituents and look them in the eye again knowing I have done my best. I look forward to the day I see a glimmer of optimism in their faces, and hear expressions of more confidence in our government due to our actions.
12.19.2006	The law makes $270 million available for research, promoting New Jersey as a leader in the scientific field. For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez December 20, 2006 (201) 222-2828 (Trenton, NJ.) - New Jersey Congressman Albio Sires witnessed the next step in what he introduced as Speaker of the New Jersey State Assembly: Governor Jon Corzine signed legislation into law that makes millions available for Stem Cell Research. "I was proud to be the Speaker when we passed legislation expanding stem cell opportunities," said Congressman Sires. "I was thrilled to see stem cell research moving forward and I am hopeful that it in time it will improve millions of lives." The legislation appropriates $270 million to build stem cell and biomedical research centers throughout the state. The measure (A-2828/S-1471) was sponsored by Assemblymen Neil Cohen (D-Union), John McKeon (D-Essex), and Louis Manzo (D-Hudson), and Assemblywoman Joan Quigley (D-Hudson). Stem Cell Research will be a priority in the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress," said Congressman Sires. "I look forward to co-sponsoring legislation at the federal level and hope that President Bush realizes the importance of creating opportunities so that Americans can benefit from this vital research"
12.11.2006	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez December 12, 2006 (201) 222-2828 (Washington D.C.) - Speaker-designate Nancy Pelosi announced recommendations to various Congressional Committees. The Democratic Steering Committee recommended New Jersey Congressman Albio Sires to the House Committee on Financial Services. The Financial Services Committee oversees the financial services industry. This includes securities, insurance, banking, and housing. The Committee also oversees the work of the Federal Reserve, the Treasury the SEC and other financial services regulators. ( https://financialservices.house.gov ) "I look forward to using my experience in the area of affordable housing to create more housing opportunities for the low income residents of New Jersey", said Congressman Albio Sires. "I will also work closely with my colleagues to help spur growth in the financial sector. The Steering Committee appointed freshmen members to at least one committee. The full Democratic Caucus will vote to approve these nominations in January.
12.11.2006	Effective oversight of the $38 billion dollars appropriated for Iraq reconstruction has been safeguarded. For Immediate Release December 12, 2006 Contact: Olga Alvarez (201) 222-2828 The House of Representatives approved Senate bill S.4046, companion bill to H.R. 6313, which extends the mandate of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGIR). The legislation sponsored by Congressman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) was co-sponsored by more than 90 legislators in both chambers, including Congressman Albio Sires (D-NJ). The bill ensures that the Inspector General remain in Iraq until 80% of the reconstruction work has been completed. Prior to this legislation being passed, the office would have been terminated within 3 months of October 1, 2007. "I believe Congress and the American people have a right to see how their tax dollars are being spent," said Congressman Albio Sires. "There must be more Congressional oversight of the money being appropriated for the war in Iraq. This bill extends the SIGIR's work until at least 2009, and ensures that both Congress and the Administration continue to receive the audit information on the billions of dollars invested in Iraq". The Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction is in charge of reviewing U.S. rebuilding activities in Iraq. Previous to the position being created, there were numerous reports of reconstruction funds being squandered. Abbreviated contracting procedures were being utilized, with both contractors and auditors attempting to oversee the work. The SIGIR has done a remarkable job in providing constructive and aggressive oversight of these activities, resulting in estimated savings and potential benefits of more than $400 million. "I am proud to have co-sponsored this legislation that creates more transparency to the Iraq reconstruction process" Congressman Sires said.
11.29.2005	For Immediate Release Contact: Olga Alvarez November 30, 2006 (201) 222-2828 "For more than two decades, AIDS has claimed the lives of millions of victims worldwide, depriving families of their loved ones and leaving scores of orphaned children. On December 1st we commemorate World AIDS Day to remind us that more must be done to eradicate this terrible disease. "Worldwide, thousands around the world have taken action to help the victims of AIDS, not only in Sub-Saharan Africa, in Latin America as well but it is obvious we need to do more. There is a dire need for the millions of patients diagnosed with AIDS to have access to the antiretroviral medication that can keep them alive. "Equally as important, education is the key to prevention. Keeping populations well informed to curb discrimination and promote protection is vital if we want to turn this sad day into one we can finally celebrate, when we are rid of this devastating disease. "As Congressman, I will fight for increased funding for AIDS research and AIDS Education in the United States, and the countries that need it most. "May this day unite us in remembering not to let down our guard until we achieve this life-saving goal."
