12.07.2016	Washington D.C.— Rep. Brad Ashford’s and Sen. Deb Fischer’s promise to bring a new Veterans Medical Center to Nebraska won overwhelming approval in the House today and moves the plan one key step closer to reality. The House of Representatives vote to approve the groundbreaking legislation would enable the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with private donors to build a new and robust $136 million facility. Working closely with bipartisan leadership in the House and Senate, Fischer and Ashford engaged both sides of the aisle negotiating a deal with support from Rep. Jeff Miller, Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs (HVAC), Rep. Mark Takano Ranking Member of HVAC, Rep. Jeff Fortenberry and the entire Nebraska congressional delegation. Sen. Deb Fischer’s medical center bill in the Senate is awaiting approval, following Fischer’s tireless efforts. “Along with Sen. Fischer’s leadership we are keeping our promises to veterans,” said Ashford. “This legislation paves the way for major health care improvements for 175,000 veterans in Nebraska and Western Iowa. Those improvements include primary health care, mental health care and out-patient surgery.” According to the bill, the VA would be allowed to accept private donations of money, facilities and real property while entering into an agreement with private partners to plan, design and construct new facilities for use by the VA. $56 million in federal funds have already been secured toward the new Omaha medical center, which would sit alongside the aging VA Hospital at 42nd and Woolworth. Ashford noted a long list of other key players. “I want to especially thank Congressmen Tim Walz and David Young, VA Secretary Bob McDonald, his staff and Matt Collier of MyVA Strategic Partnerships for their unwavering support for this legislation.” Secretary McDonald has said the Omaha project could serve as a model for other cities looking to expand veterans’ health care. “Our veterans make great sacrifices in defense of our freedoms, and it is up to us to provide them with the best possible health care when they return home,” said Congressman Young. “I appreciate my colleague Congressman Ashford’s leadership on this important bill, which prioritizes our veterans’ access to care by working to ensure needed improvements to the health care facilities they depend on are completed in an efficient manner.” Ashford also adds his thanks to the residents of Omaha, area veterans and community donors. Once the Senate approves the bill it will go to President Obama who is expected to sign the legislation into law. ###
11.03.2016	Omaha, NE.—As Admiral Cecil Haney, the country’s top military leader in charge of nuclear forces steps down from his Strategic Command (STRATCOM) post today, Congressman Brad Ashford proudly notes the admiral’s significant role in protecting our nation. “Through my position on the House Armed Services Committee it’s been an honor to work with Admiral Haney to strengthen our country’s nuclear triad and keep our country safe from a never ending supply of international threats,” said Ashford. “Admiral Haney has masterfully faced the five evolving challenges facing our military—Russia, China, North Korea, Iran and the Islamic State—and continually modernized our strategic stability.” During the Strategic Command Change of Command Ceremony at Offutt Air Force Base in Bellevue today, Admiral Haney is relinquishing command to Air Force General John Hyten. “I look forward to working with Gen. Hyten as we continue to fortify STRATCOM’S role in defending the United States, “said Ashford. ###
10.28.2016	Omaha, NE — Today, Congressman Brad Ashford announced that the University of Nebraska Medical Center/Nebraska Medicine has been awarded $19.8 million by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a Training, Simulation and Quarantine Center to teach federal health care personnel procedures in treating highly infectious diseases and to create a place to monitor persons who have received a high-risk exposure to a highly infectious disease, such as Ebola. “UNMC is a worldwide leader in the fight against Ebola and other highly infectious diseases and this funding will strengthen their ability to share their knowledge with the broader health care community,” said Ashford who helped lead the push for the funding in Congress. “This federal investment in UNMC is the result of strong collaboration between UNMC, the entire Omaha community, the state of Nebraska and our federal delegation.” UNMC qualified for the funding because, according to HHS stipulations, only U.S. hospitals that “safely and successfully cared for patients with Ebola,” for the full duration of their illness were eligible. UNMC treated three patients with the dreaded disease during 2014-2015 and received nationwide attention for its work during the crisis. In December 2015, Congressman Ashford successfully added key language to the annual appropriations bill which allowed this funding to be available. That language specifically allowed the partial reimbursement of facilities “for renovation and alteration undertaken in preparation for, or in response to, the need to improve preparedness and response capability at the state and local level.” Construction of the $102 million facility at UNMC, which would be located on the southeast corner of 42nd and Emile streets, is likely to begin next year and be up and running by September 2018. ###
10.26.2016	Omaha, NE –Congressman Brad Ashford today applauded Pentagon plans to keep intact signing bonuses that were awarded to nearly 10,000 soldiers between 2000 and 2008. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said Wednesday that he is suspending “all efforts to collect reimbursement” from the men and women caught up in a California National Guard nightmare. Congressman Ashford said the men and women in uniform should not be taking the fall for something out of their control. “Too many veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars sacrificed their lives and others reenlisted multiple times to serve our country; it’s shameful that the Department of Defense would even consider asking Purple Heart recipients and other veterans to repay bonuses that have helped military families buy a home or pay for medical expenses,” Ashford said. Following the Los Angeles Times report on clawbacks in California, both Republicans and Democrats voiced their opposition to the Pentagon’s decision to seek repayment of bonuses and urged bipartisan action to halt the clawback and investigate who is accountable. This week, Ashford joined colleagues from both sides of the aisle urging Secretary Carter to immediately halt all ongoing efforts to recoup bonuses, along with providing information about the recoupment process and steps taken to educate Service Members on their ability to apply for relief. “Taking care of our troops and our veterans is a top priority, and as the son of a veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee, I share the strong objections our veterans and military families have about the collection efforts,” said Ashford. “I am strongly committed to working with my colleagues on a bipartisan solution so that no other members of our military suffer a similar injustice.” ###
10.17.2016	Omaha, NE.- At a time when fewer and fewer members of Congress are willing to cross the aisle and work with members of the other party, Congressman Brad Ashford today was named the fifth most bipartisan Member of the House of Representatives. According to CQ Roll Call, Ashford votes against his party nearly a third of the time. “Being an independent voice is the Nebraska Way,” said Ashford. “It is an honor to be recognized for working with all members of the House in order to get things done, focusing on the quality of a proposal and not which party is behind it.” Ashford, a Member of the Congressional Problem Solvers Caucus, votes against his party 27 percent of the time during controversial votes, according to the ratings which also find Ashford voting against President Obama 66 percent of the time. Ashford’s bipartisanship is even more striking given that in its analysis CQ Roll Call notes that staggering levels of partisanship have gripped the House in this the “second highest year of polarization on record.” According to CQ Roll Call, Nebraska’s other two members of Congress voted with their party over 90 percent of the time. ###
10.14.2016	Omaha, NE.—Today, after listening to a variety of student debt horror stories—one woman said she’s saddled with nearly $300,000 in student loans—Congressman Brad Ashford urged his colleagues to find a bipartisan solution to a growing national problem. “The mounting costs of students acquiring more and more debt from student loans that they are unable to repay for many years after they graduate is greatly concerning to me,” said Ashford. “I fully support Congress considering this important issue in order to reign in the high cost of education, lowering interest repayment rates, and working with financial institutions to find innovative ways to help students get out debt faster.” Ashford was joined by Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-2), several college graduates and education-financing experts in a brainstorming session that found many frustrated with the current system. "A college education is an essential tool for getting into the middle class. Yet it's come all too common to accept the fact that students must graduate with crushing levels of debt," Rep. Pocan said." It's time to end the reliance on debt as a way to finance a college education. We need to work with students, universities, states, and the federal government to ensure college is affordable and accessible for all." Congressman Pocan is a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee and represents nearly 90,000 college students in Wisconsin and is a leader on college affordability in Congress. He has sponsored many different pieces of legislation to help students afford higher education ranging from bills that simplify the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) to bills that allow students to refinance their student loans at lower rates. Congressman Ashford is a proud cosponsor of the Employer Participation In Student Loan Assistance Act that will extend the tax exclusion for employer provided assistance to include payment of education loans to an employee or lender. “This is an important tax incentive that helps working students and graduates partner with their employer to get out of debt faster,” said Ashford. According to the New York Federal Reserve (NYFR), total student debt tripled from over $300 billion in 2004 to nearly $1 trillion in 2012. In addition, the NYFR says balances of student loans have eclipsed both auto loans and credit cards, making student loan debt the largest form of consumer debt outside of mortgages. The Institute for College Access and Success estimates that the average college graduate in Nebraska leaves school owing $26,278. ###
10.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford applauded the U.S. Departments of Treasury and Commerce for taking another step forward toward expanding trade opportunities with Cuba and ultimately normalizing the relationship between our countries. “Strengthening America’s economic relationship with Cuba increases opportunities for Nebraska agriculture producers to sell their products and further serves to encourage the growth of democracy in Cuba,” said Ashford. “Increasing trade with Cuba is mutually beneficial to our countries and is a welcome change after more than fifty years of the failed policy of isolation.” The announcement today includes amendments to the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to clarify that agricultural items, such as pesticides and tractors, authorized for export or re-export to Cuba are not subject to restrictions on payment terms, while agricultural commodities, such as poultry and corn, remain subject to the limited payment and financing terms of cash in advance or third country financing. Congressman Ashford was a cosponsor of legislation to allow Americans to travel and trade with Cuba. In addition to expanding opportunities for Nebraska famers to export agricultural products, the new regulations allow Americans travelling to Cuba the freedom to purchase unlimited Cuban rum and cigars for personal use and will also make it easier to import Cuban pharmaceuticals. # # #
09.30.2016	Washington D.C. —Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement after learning that Dr. Robin Gandhi, associate professor of information assurance at University of Nebraska Omaha, received a nearly $100,000 planning grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) to investigate how big data can be used to improve America’s infrastructure: “I want to congratulate Dr. Gandhi, his team and the College of Information Science and Technology (IS&T) at UNO for their hard work and dedication to researching innovative bridge health monitoring solutions,” said Ashford. “Almost 10 percent of the nation’s bridges are structurally deficient, which will cost more than $76 billion to rebuild, according to the American Society of Civil Engineers. By tapping into big data, Dr. Gandhi’s work will improve infrastructure conditions long-term by identifying deficiencies in real-time, thus saving more money without risking public safety.” “Large amounts of bridge related information, both static and streaming, currently exists in silos,” said Gandhi. “While sharing of this data will create opportunities, the risks due to competitive advantage, liability, security and privacy need to be considered. This project will facilitate private, public and academic partnerships to address this challenging problem.” The “Big Data Data Innovation for Bridge Health” project, a partnership between IS&T and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln’s College of Engineering, is the latest of four projects from NSF for UNO IS&T in 2016. ###
09.29.2016	Washington D.C. — Working with his colleagues on Capitol Hill Congressman Brad Ashford today helped introduce plans aimed at fixing Congress’ problems. Joining Reps. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) and Darin LaHood (IL-18) Ashford is an original cosponsor of an initiative to improve the way Congress functions by establishing a bipartisan, bicameral, “Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress” to study deficiencies in the House and Senate Chambers and recommend legislative and procedural reforms. “Following the last minute passage of a short-term spending bill Wednesday evening, it’s evident that the democratic governing body, which was created to serve and represent the American people, is no longer working the way our Founding Fathers intended,” said Ashford. “Washington should follow Nebraska’s commonsense lead and pay attention to the way we do it in the Unicameral. The joint committee will also provide a great opportunity for our constituents to make recommendations and help find solutions,” Ashford said. “The legislative productivity of the last Congress, the 113th, was the worst on record, and the Congress before that, the 112th, was the second worst. Americans understand that the legislative process is not working when they see Congress continually waiting until the last minute to address major issues, and sometimes not acting at all as we saw with the government shutdown a couple of years ago,” said Congressman Lipinski. The Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress, which has been used three times in the past 100 years, would be represented by 24 members (12 each from the House and Senate and evenly split between parties) tasked with studying the organization and operation of Congress and suggesting reforming measures. ###
09.28.2016	Washington D.C. — Today, Congressman Ashford voted in favor of a temporary spending bill, Continuing Resolution, which would prevent a federal government shutdown this weekend and keep the government running through December 9th. “Although it wasn’t glamorous and only addresses a short-term measure, I applaud my Democratic and Republican colleagues for coming to an agreement and passing a bipartisan solution,” said Ashford. The Continuing Resolution (CR) will provide $1.1 billion in long-delayed funding to combat the Zika virus and $500 million in emergency funding for Louisiana and other states that were ravaged by flooding. Although aid for communities with lead-contaminated drinking water was not included in the CR, the House agreed to an amendment—in a separate water infrastructure bill—that will address the injustice facing communities like Flint, Michigan. “These last minute agreements have become too common in Washington,” said Ashford. “I thank the leadership in both parties for stepping up and I hope that Congress can take this experience and apply it to other important issues before Congress and avoid these near shutdowns in the future by working together on a bipartisan basis.” ###
09.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford voted in favor of long overdue justice for the survivors and families still suffering from the attacks of 9/11. Ashford voted for the Justice Against State Sponsors of Terror Act (JASTA), which allows lawsuits against foreign sponsors of the attack, including Saudi Arabia. “Justice delayed for 9/11 victims’ families is justice denied and I’m proud this this bill has finally passed overwhelmingly in both the House and Senate,” said Ashford. The bill was vetoed by President Obama but overturned by both houses of Congress with nearly unanimous support. “By overriding President Obama’s veto, families and survivors of the September 11 attacks will finally receive the long overdue justice that they deserve,” said Ashford. “This important bill will grant American families who lost loved ones on 9/11 their day in court and demand restitution from those that may have been complicit or aided in these attacks.” ###
09.28.2016	Washington D.C. — Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement following the death of former Israeli President and Prime Minister Shimon Peres: “Today, Israel and the rest of the world mourn the death of Shimon Peres,” said Congressman Ashford. “He was a Founding Father and statesman of Israel who devoted over 50 years serving his country, protecting its national security and cultivating a strong alliance with the United States. As a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, Shimon Peres was a visionary and a champion of justice and peace. My condolences are with his family and the State of Israel as we all reflect on the life he lived and the legacy he left behind,” Ashford said. ###
09.26.2016	Washington D.C. — As the man who led the University of Nebraska at Omaha through one major development after another prepares to step down, Congressman Brad Ashford can’t thank Chancellor John Christensen enough. “Chancellor Christensen has been instrumental in guiding UNO through one success after another during the last 10 years,” said Ashford. “Working with John on a variety of issues I continually witnessed first-hand his endless dedication to our state.” Christensen has served as chancellor during a decade of major capital improvement projects including the construction of Baxter Arena, the Community Engagement Center and the Biomechanics Research Building. His last day as chancellor is June 30. He will remain at UNO for two more years working on special projects. ###
09.23.2016	Washington, DC – With time running out Congressman Brad Ashford is once again imploring Republican and Democratic leaders to work together to avoid a government shutdown. The federal fiscal year ends in seven days, at midnight on Sept. 30, and Congress must pass a budget by then to keep the government open. Ashford is urging both sides to put politics aside and work together to get the job done. “We have heard leaders on both sides of the aisle mention they are prepared to pass a stopgap funding bill, but have yet to know when it will be introduced,” said Congressman Brad Ashford. “Combatting the Zika virus, providing flood relief for states including Louisiana, and funding our U.S. military operations requires bipartisan leadership, and time is of the essence.” The last government shutdown in October 2013, lasted 16 days, and led to the furlough of hundreds of thousands of federal workers, closed national parks, shuttered childcare for military families, froze government contracts for large and small businesses, as well as adding billions of dollars to the federal deficit. “Americans shouldn’t get the short end of the stick when they elect us to represent them. We have a commitment to uphold and a responsibility that requires rolling up our sleeves and finding solutions that are in the best interest of the American people,” said Ashford. # # #
09.21.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs unanimously advanced a bipartisan bill introduced by Congressman Brad Ashford, establishing a first-of-its-kind pilot program to build an innovative veterans medical facility in Omaha. Ashford’s legislation would enable the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with private donors to change the face of veterans’ care. “VA facilities across the country are aging and are in need of repair to ensure the best possible care for America’s bravest men and women,” said Congressman Brad Ashford. “By partnering with private donors and local communities, veterans will receive the health care services they deserve, including primary health care, mental health care, and ambulatory surgery.” Rep. Ashford’s legislation will allow the VA to enter into a public-private partnership agreement to plan, design, and construct new facilities for use by the VA. It would also allow the VA to accept private donations of money, facilities, and real property. Already, $56 million in federal funds have been secured toward the new 157,000 square foot Omaha medical facility which includes a 500 stall parking garage. “I am hopeful that, once finished, the newly designed facility will turn Omaha into a center of excellence for our veterans. Omaha has been waiting for over 20 years for a new facility and we are a key step closer toward accomplishing this goal,” Ashford said. The new medical facility would sit alongside the VA Hospital at 42nd and Woolworth. Both facilities would serve the 175,000 veterans in Nebraska and western Iowa. Secretary of the VA, Robert McDonald, actively supports this bill and touted the public-private partnership model as a “way of the future” when he visited Omaha in August. Rep. Ashford’s legislation is cosponsored by Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1), Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-3), Rep. David Young (IA-3), and Rep. Tim Walz (MN-1). Sen. Deb Fischer has introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate. Text of the bill can be viewed here. Ashford Statement on VA Bill_Final.mp4 # # #
09.16.2016	Washington, DC – This week, Congressman Brad Ashford partnered with Congressmen David Scott (GA-13) and Kevin Cramer (ND-AL) to introduce bipartisan legislation helping young African American men learn new skills to rebuild the country’s crumbling infrastructure. The Jobs, On-the-Jobs ‘Earn While You Learn’ Training, and Apprenticeships for African American Young Men Act would recruit, hire and train on-the-job African American males ages 18-39 through their existing jobs, apprenticeships, and “Earn As You Learn” programs. “I believe that trade skills training and education is one of the best ways to get young people to work in high-wage, high demanding careers,” said Congressman Brad Ashford. “By helping young men find work with businesses, general contractors and labor unions in apprentice roles and “Earn as You Learn” programs, we can rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure and help secure the future of a generation.” Ashford said. “I appreciate Brad Ashford’s partnership on this bill as an original cosponsor,” said Congressman David Scott (GA-13). “We are responding to a national crisis, a national tragedy, which is the soaring unemployment rate of young African American men ages 18-39. This group is the hardest hit with an unemployment rate of 41%, and in our inner cities over 50%. We appreciate the valuable role that my good friend Brad Ashford is playing in getting this needed bill passed.” Under the legislation, the Department of Labor to is instructed to assist trade businesses, contractors and union organizations to reach out to African American churches, fraternities, urban leagues, NAACP chapters, 100 black men of America and similar African American organizations in cities and communities across America. # # #
09.15.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement after supporting legislation that will prohibit the transfer of any individual detained in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: “I continue to oppose every effort of the President to close the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and I do not support any transfers of detainees,” said Ashford. “Our elected leaders’ greatest responsibility is ensuring the safety of our communities and our families. Guantanamo Bay houses dangerous terrorists who must be kept in isolation, away from our citizens. We must also make sure these enemy combatants do not return to the battlefield.” # # #
09.14.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement after supporting legislation that will require federal agencies to increase transparency by maintaining an online, searchable list of regulatory actions that are being taken. “Transparency is necessary for government to function effectively and be held accountable to the public,” said Congressman Ashford. “I support the Regulatory Integrity Act of 2016 because bureaucratic agencies should be responsible for providing basic information to the public about regulations, including a brief description of the pending regulatory action, the date it was developed, its current status and an estimated timetable of when it will take effect.” Under H.R. 5226, each agency shall publish the information required within 24 hours of any new action’s development and maintain the public availability of information on that action for at least 5 years after it is finalized. # # #
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – With less than three weeks before federal funding expires on September 30, Congressman Brad Ashford is imploring Republican and Democratic leaders to work together to avoid a government shutdown. “Time is of the essence. Both parties must stop continuing to point fingers at each other and stop trying to include poison pills in critical legislation,” said Ashford. “Americans are sick and tired of partisan politics and our constituents deserve better. We need to pass bipartisan appropriations legislation to avoid another government shutdown and get serious about combatting the Zika virus.” The last government shutdown in October 2013, lasted 16 days, and led to the furlough of hundreds of thousands of federal workers, closed national parks, shuttered childcare for military families, frozen government contracts for large and small businesses, as well as adding billions of dollars to the federal deficit. “Congressional leaders from both parties must roll up their sleeves, get to work, and put America’s best interests first,” said Ashford. # # #
09.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Brad Ashford introduced legislation today aimed at reining in outrageous congressional perks. The Congressional Accountability Now Act or CAN Act would reduce member pay, end Congressional pensions, and eliminate special privileges and perks from the Member’s Representational Allowance, which is to be used in support of official and representational duties to a member’s district. “The American people deserve a Congress that is focused on growing our economy, not cashing in on special perks at the expense of taxpayers,” said Ashford. “I believe members of Congress should be good stewards of federal tax dollars. The CAN Act reins in wasteful spending and holds Congress accountable.” The Congressional Accountability Now Act will: Reduce Congressional salaries by 10 percent, Eliminate Congressional pensions, End the use of government funds for promotional mass mailings, and Ban the use of government funds for first-class air travel for members of Congress and their staff and for long-term vehicle leasing. Once signed into law, the proposals in the CAN Act will take effect beginning in fiscal year 2017. “Congress can act and should act to restore the American people’s confidence in their government. That starts with reducing and eliminating perks,” said Ashford. “I am optimistic this bill will generate strong bipartisan support.” Congressman Ashford has been vocal in his opposition to these costly perks and will work on a bipartisan basis to fight lavish spending. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, reaffirmed his condemnation of North Korea’s continued nuclear tests and Dictator Kim Jong-un’s never-ending provocative behavior. “With this fifth reckless nuclear test, North Korea continues to violate successive UN Security Council resolutions,” said Ashford. “America stands with our South Korean and Japanese allies during this time and we will continue to provide support. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure tougher actions are taken and our national security is not threatened by a tyrannical and dangerous North Korean regime. ” Ashford said. Congressman Ashford introduced a resolution formally condemning the regime’s aggressive acts in February 2016. The resolution cited North Korea’s history of violating international standards, including the recent long-range weapons test and restart of a plutonium reactor as worthy of condemnation. ###
09.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the United States Air Force announced that Offutt Air Force Base in Nebraska was selected as a top candidate for a new drone (MQ-9) Wing base. “Offutt is a critical driver of Omaha’s economy and we must keep working to strengthen the future of Offutt Air Force Base,” said Ashford. “The selection of Offutt as a finalist for a new drone mission shows the importance of Offutt and that our community continues to be supportive of the men and women who work on base. If Offutt is selected for this new mission next year, the future of Offutt and the entire Omaha area will be stronger.” Congressman Ashford called General Herbert Carlisle last December to strongly advocate for Offutt as a base for new missions. Offutt is one of five finalists for the drone wing, out of 19 bases that applied. One or more of the five will be slotted for new unmanned aerial vehicle missions. The MQ-9, an unmanned aerial vehicle, is the primary offense strike drone for the U.S. Air Force. It requires a crew that consists of a pilot to control the aircraft and command the mission as well as airmen who can operate sensors and weapons and serve as a mission coordinator. ###
09.08.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Brad Ashford is pleased to announce a plan by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that will allow the men and women who served this country in uniform quicker access to routine ear and eye appointments. Veterans will soon be able to go to local VA clinics without a referral from their primary physician. “We must do everything we can to make sure our veterans get the care they have fought for and earned. This initiative removes a burden that for too long left veterans without the care they deserve in a timely manner,” said Ashford. “By eliminating a few hurdles, veterans now have access to more immediate appointments with audiologists and optometrists. This is a small step in the right direction as the VA continues to improve its experience for veterans. I applaud Secretary McDonald for his efforts and look forward to many more changes in the near future,” Ashford said. According to the VA, the Audiology and Optometry Direct Scheduling Initiative is expected to be fully operational within all VA Medical Centers by the end of the year. For more information, visit: US Department of Veterans Affairs. ###
09.07.2016	Omaha, NE – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford became a cosponsor of a Constitutional Amendment targeting secret, dark money in politics. The Democracy for All Amendment, a resolution introduced by U.S. Representative Ted Deutch (FL-21) would reverse present controversial Supreme Court decisions like Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC. “No individual or corporation should be able to buy political favors and campaign contributions should not be intended to dramatically affect elections,” said Ashford. “As a member of the House of Representatives, I will continue to protect the integrity of the government and the values that our Constitution was founded on. Dark money has done more harm than good to our electoral process, and we cannot continue to let a handful of the ultra-wealthy determine the fate of America’s political future,” Ashford said. As a result of the Citizens United decision, the 2014 midterm election cycle became the most expensive election cycle in history as Super PACs and outside groups poured record-breaking money into state and local elections. “Every American deserves to have their voice heard and as a cosponsor of this resolution I’m encouraged by the fact that Congress and the states will have power to implement reasonable spending limits by candidates and others who want to influence elections. ###
09.06.2016	Omaha, NE—Looking for a job, need help with Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid or cutting through the government’s red tape? Congressman Ashford is pleased to announce several upcoming hands-on events where you can get answers to those questions—and more. Look for the Congressman’s mobile offices at a variety of sites all this month. Wednesday, September 7th: NE Job Fair – 7007 Grover St – 1:00 – 5:00 p.m. Friday, September 9th: South Omaha Library – 4920 S 30th St – 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. Tuesday, September 13th: MCC Fort Omaha Campus, Bldg. 10 – 5300 N 30th St – 1:30 – 3:30 p.m. Thursday, September 15th: Ralston’s Baright Library – 5555 S 77th St – 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Wednesday, September 21st: Latino Center of the Midlands – 4821 S 24th St – 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. Friday, September 23rd: MCC South Omaha Campus – 2801 Edward Babe Gomez Ave - 9:00 - 11:00 a.m. Tuesday, September 27th: Papillion, Sump Memorial Library – 222 N Jefferson St – 2:00 – 4:00 p.m. Thursday, September 29th: Saddlebrook Library – 14850 Laurel Ave – 9:00 – 11:00 a.m. And we’re not stopping there. For updates, including future locations, please check our website atashford.house.gov, Facebook page at www.facebook.com/repbradashford and Twitter attwitter.com/RepBradAshford. ###
08.30.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford announced he will introduce legislation aimed at reining in congressional perks when Congress returns to Washington next week. The Congressional Accountability Now Act or CAN Act would reduce member pay, end Congressional pensions, and eliminate special privileges and perks from the Member’s Representational Allowance, which is to be used in support of official and representational duties to a member’s district. “The American people deserve a Congress that is focused on growing our economy, not cashing in on special perks at the expense of taxpayers,” said Ashford. “I believe members of Congress should be good stewards of federal tax dollars. The CAN Act reins in wasteful spending and holds Congress accountable.” The Congressional Accountability Now Act will: Reduce Congressional salaries by 10 percent, Eliminate Congressional pensions, End the use of government funds for promotional mass mailings, and Ban the use of government funds for first-class air travel for members of Congress and their staff and for long-term vehicle leasing. Once signed into law, the proposals in the CAN Act will take effect beginning in fiscal year 2017. “Congress can act and should act to restore the American people’s confidence in their government. That starts with reducing and eliminating perks,” said Ashford. “I am optimistic this bill will generate strong bipartisan support.” Congressman Ashford has been vocal in his opposition to these costly perks, and has partnered with a bipartisan group of legislators to fight against this lavish spending.
08.12.2016	Omaha – This Sunday, Social Security marks its 81st birthday. On August 14, 1935, President Roosevelt signed the Social Security Act into law, providing benefits to millions of retiring Americans and veterans. “Over 300,000 Nebraskans rely on Social Security benefits every month. As a member of the Congressional Task Force on Seniors, I am working with my colleagues to confront the long-term challenges our seniors face,” said Rep. Ashford. “I firmly believe that a promise made to our seniors and veterans is a promise kept.” Social Security is critical for retirement security for more than 42 million retirees, with nearly two-thirds relying on it for the majority of their income. Although the cost of health care and prescription drugs continues to increase, there was no cost-of-living adjustment in 2016. Congressman Ashford cosponsored the SAVE Act (Seniors and Veterans Emergency Benefits Act) which provides supplementary payments to Social Security beneficiaries to offset the absence of a cost-of-living adjustment. “Generations of Americans have paid into the system with the assurance that it would be there for them and their children for years. Congress must do all it can to protect benefits like Social Security and ensure they are viable for generations of workers to come.”
08.04.2016	Omaha, NE.— Senator Deb Fischer and Congressman Brad Ashford are honored to welcome Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald to Omaha this Thursday for a first-hand look at the continued progress being made toward a state-of-the art veterans’ medical facility in Omaha. “This week, I’m pleased to welcome VA Secretary Bob McDonald to Omaha so he can personally see how eager the community is to serve our veterans,” said Sen. Fischer. “I am thankful for Secretary McDonald’s commitment to the Omaha VA project and to Nebraska’s veterans. I look forward to watching this unique initiative develop over the months ahead as we work together to meet our veterans’ needs and provide them with the quality care they have earned.” “Sec. McDonald’s visit to Omaha demonstrates that we are making great progress on a new veterans’ medical center in Omaha,” said Ashford. “He is dedicated to seeing this project through and wants to find a new way forward to enhancing veterans’ health care in Omaha and throughout the nation. Our veterans sacrificed greatly for our nation and they deserve the best health care possible.” Legislation introduced in the Senate by Fischer and in the House by Ashford would allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into a public-private partnership agreement to plan, design and build new facilities for use by the VA, along with allowing the VA to accept private donations which are currently prohibited. Fischer and Ashford are joined in this effort by Nebraska Congressmen Jeff Fortenberry and Adrian Smith and Iowa Congressman David Young. “Nebraska and Iowa have a great bipartisan team in Congress dedicated toward building a new medical center serving veterans in Nebraska and Western Iowa with a focus on primary health care, mental health care and ambulatory surgery,” said Ashford.
08.02.2016	Omaha – In celebration of the 51st anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid being signed into law, Congressman Brad Ashford renewed his vow to protect these crucial services for Nebraskans. “51 years ago, President Lyndon Johnson signed into law what has become a lifeline for our aging population. I am committed to standing up for our senior citizens and keeping the basic promise that after a lifetime of work, seniors deserve the security provided by Medicare and Medicaid. I refuse to support attempts to slash funding or privatize these programs and risk denying access to health care to our most vulnerable citizens, including low-income children, seniors, and mothers.”
08.01.2016	Washington, DC – President Obama signed Congressman Ashford’s bill to rename an Omaha post office after fallen Navy SEAL and Omaha Petty Officer 1st Class Caleb A. Nelson, who gave his life for our country leaving behind his wife and two sons. Officer Nelson, who grew up in Omaha and graduated from SEAL training in 2006, was killed while on combat patrol in Afghanistan on October 1, 2011 when his vehicle was struck by an improvised explosive device in Zabul province. “Caleb served our country with honor and made the ultimate sacrifice while defending our freedoms, and it is a privilege to honor his legacy,” Rep. Ashford said. “We are ensuring that his service will never be forgotten and his name will live on in our community. I send my heartfelt thanks to President Obama for signing this legislation into law.” President Obama signed the legislation, introduced by Congressman Ashford, which passed unanimously in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. The new law officially renames the U.S. Post Office at 5780 S. 142nd St., the “Petty Officer 1st Class Caleb A. Nelson Post Office Building.” Officer Nelson has received numerous military awards including the Bronze Star with Valor and Purple Heart. He was assigned to the Naval Special Warfare unit in Norfolk, Virginia following his graduation from SEAL training and was initially deployed to Iraq in 2009.
07.15.2016	Omaha, NE – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford called on congressional leaders to bring Congress back into session immediately following the national conventions in the wake of the terror attack in Nice, France. Members of Congress have left Washington, D.C. for the longest summer recess in more than three decades. “Our hearts break again for our brothers and sisters of France,” said Rep. Brad Ashford. “As we share in their grief, we must turn our pain into action and show our resolve to destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).” In a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Tuesday, Ashford called on Congress to cut its summer break short and to work on the national security threat our country faces from ISIS. “ISIS is working 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to destroy our valued way of life,” Ashford said. “There is no reason Congress should be on a seven week break, and our congressional leaders need to call us back after the conventions. We must unify in this fight to destroy ISIS and give our military everything they need to be successful.” # # # #
07.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – In a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Brad Ashford called on Congress to cut its summer break short and to work on the national security threat our country faces from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). “Congress is set to leave Washington for the longest summer break in more than three decades at a time when we face serious national security threats,” said Rep. Ashford. “We have an obligation to the American people to protect our communities and families, and our attention should be on passing an Authorization for Use of Military Force to degrade and destroy ISIS and end the worst crisis in the Middle East in a generation.” Following Congressman Ashford’s trip to the Middle East in 2015 he stressed the need to develop a strategy against ISIS and assist coalition fighters through training and air strikes. “The barbaric actions of ISIS and their recruits around the world make their ultimate defeat our top priority,” said Ashford. “It is crucial that Congress puts party aside and works together to develop a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS on all fronts. We must give our military the ability to make long-term, strategic decisions against these threats. The American people cannot afford another session of a “do nothing” Congress.” ###
07.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, the House Appropriations Committee approved an increase in funding aimed at helping homeless veterans get back on their feet at the urging of Congressman Ashford and a bipartisan group of legislators. The additional funding, nearly $15 million, is allocated to the Department of Labor’s Veterans Employment and Training Service (VETS) and the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP) “We owe a debt to the brave men and women who have selflessly served our country and fought to protect our freedoms, and that means keeping the promises our country has made to our veterans,” said Rep. Ashford. “I am pleased with this week’s committee vote to invest in programs that lift our veterans out of poverty and homelessness. Our communities need resources to address mental illness among homeless veterans and continue to adapt and tailor services to female veterans. I am moved by the work being done in Omaha to reduce the number of homeless veterans, and I want to see this successful program expanded and used to combat this issue across the country.” Congressman Ashford lead a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee, cosigned by 66 Members of Congress, earlier this year calling for a robust increase in funding for these crucial programs. The legislation provides $285.5 million for VETS, which is a $14.4 million increase from the previous year. Included in the VETS funding is an $11.9 million increase to expand the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program and other worker training programs. HVRP investments, when paired with other public-private initiatives like Together Omaha, have reduced the number of homeless veterans across the country by 36 percent since 2010 by connecting them to stable housing and support. "We applaud the passage of the Veterans Employment and Training Services bill which allocates needed funds to veterans’ reintegration and assists in efforts to end veteran homelessness,” said Together Omaha Program Manager Cheryl Dixon. “At Together we are proud of our efforts to end veteran homelessness in Omaha. We have seen a 98% success rate at bringing self-sufficiency to homeless veterans entered into our rapid rehousing program. We have a duty to help lift up those who have given so much for us. This bill goes forward in us meeting our duty." “Passage of this legislation is further evidence Congress is serious about addressing and preventing homelessness among our veterans,” said Mike Saklar with the Siena/Francis House, the largest Omaha area shelter providing food, shelter and clothing to homeless men, women and children. “A lot has been accomplished to reduce veterans’ homelessness in this decade, but we still have a long way to go. I consider employment, employment training and reintegration services as critical components in our efforts to serve homeless veterans. This increase in the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program will help communities nation-wide to expand existing or develop new efforts that will result in jobs, affordable housing, and supportive services for homeless veterans.” The HVRP helps homeless veterans find meaningful employment by investing in skills training, career counseling, and resume assistance through great local organizations funded through the program. ###
07.08.2016	Washington D.C.—Following the deadly events in Dallas, Congressman Brad Ashford has issued this statement: “We must come together to break this senseless and heartbreaking cycle of violence against each other. Law enforcement serves and protects our communities and families. Violence against law enforcement officers cannot be tolerated.”
07.07.2016	Washington D.C. — Congressman Brad Ashford is proud to announce that a study is being conducted which could land Omaha’s Union Station on the list of National Historic Landmarks. “The history and architecture of Union Station is well deserving of this honor,” said Ashford. “Growing up in Omaha I always looked forward to our family trips, many of which began and ended on trains to and from this remarkable facility.” According to the National Park Service, the study will determine the Union Station’s potential for designation as a National Historic Landmark, which recognizes properties of exceptional national significance in the nation’s history, architecture, archeology, engineering and culture. Properties designated as National Historic Landmarks are listed in the National Register of Historic Preservation, making the property owners eligible to be considered for federal grants in-aid for historic preservation.
07.06.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Brad Ashford co-sponsored a bipartisan bill to allow military spouses to maintain their professional licensing and certification as they move from state to state. Active duty military often receive Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders that require them – and their family – to move to a new duty station anywhere in the country. “Military spouses across the country often make great sacrifices that go unnoticed as they relocate their families due to their spouse’s PCS orders,” said Rep. Ashford. “Many of these military spouses have their own professional career goals, and they face a disproportionate and often costly burden when it comes to relicensing in a new state. Congress must take action on this issue and provide military families with a sense of stability, and I am proud to support the commonsense “Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act.” The “Lift the Relocation Burden from Military Spouses Act” will: Require the Department of Defense to provide a reimbursement for licensing fees up to $500 for each Permanent Change of Station. Expedite license portability. Require the Department of Defense to conduct a study to determine ways to improve the military spouse unemployment and underemployment rate. Congressman Ashford supports a broad package of legislation that supports our military families who make sacrifices every day in service to our country. During his recent visit with Offutt’s 55th Wing at RAF Mildenhall, Congressman Ashford spoke with military families and learned firsthand the challenges they face.
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford and Congressman David Young (R-IA) introduced Sarah’s Law, bipartisan legislation to honor Sarah Root, who was tragically killed in Omaha by an undocumented immigrant in January. A companion version of the bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Nebraska Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse and Iowa Senators Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst last week. Sarah’s Law amends mandatory detention provisions currently in place under the Immigration and Nationality Act. It requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to take custody of any individual who has entered or remains in the United States illegally and is also charged with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. The legislation also requires ICE to make reasonable efforts to update victims or their families with relevant information about the criminal and the federal agency’s actions. Eswin Mejia, the undocumented immigrant charged with Sarah’s death, has not been seen since posting bail in February. His disappearance follows ICE’s failure to act on requests from local law enforcement to detain Meija. “Sarah Root’s life was cut short far too early, and her family never received the justice they deserved. It is heartbreaking to see any family face this kind of pain and grief,” said Rep. Ashford. “Sarah’s Law is an important step in ensuring undocumented immigrants who commit violent crimes are brought to justice in our court system. We must prevent this from happening in our community again.” “The Root family and the community have been left waiting to see if Eswin Mejia will ever be found due to the unacceptable failures in this case including the federal government’s negligence in enforcing our laws,” Congressman Young said. “Nothing can bring Sarah back, but we can work to ensure this tragedy is met with justice and nothing like this happens again.” In March, Congressman Ashford sent a letter to the Director and Deputy Director of ICE requesting further information on this case. Congressman Young also sought answers from ICE in another March letter. ###
07.01.2016	Omaha – Today we celebrate the 240th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the birth of a new nation. Throughout our 240 year history, countless brave men and women have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedoms at home and abroad. As we gather to watch parades and fireworks with our family and friends, it is important to remember all that has gone into protecting the American dream.
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, following the Supreme Court’s split decision on the President’s immigration actions, Congressman Brad Ashford renewed his call for bipartisan immigration reform that would protect our borders and create a path to earned citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants. “This split Supreme Court decision should be motivation for Congress to take action and lead on immigration,” said Rep. Ashford. “We can no longer allow executive orders to take the place of legislation on such an important issue. Congress must do its job and fix our broken immigration system.” Bipartisan immigration reform has been debated and voted on in the past, but continues to face tough opposition from members of both parties who refuse to compromise and work together. Overhauling our outdated immigration system is a crucial component to our national security strategy. “The only way we can solve challenges like immigration reform, is by working together, across the aisle, to pass truly bipartisan legislation that will secure our borders and enhance our national security. It is past time to find a compromise on the pathway to earned citizenship for law-abiding immigrants who wish to become American citizens,” said Ashford.
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford called for swift action on bipartisan legislation that will strengthen background checks and ensure suspected terrorists do not have access to firearms. “This Congress owes the American people a solution to the gun violence that is devastating families and communities across the country,” said Rep. Ashford. “I am proud to cosponsor legislation that tackles two components of the gun debate, identifying and treating mental health and ensuring suspected terrorists cannot legally obtain firearms.” The Mental Health and Safe Communities Act strengthens the background check system and empowers communities to rethink the way they identify and treat mental illness. The bill strengthens federal programs related to mental health within the criminal justice system, and improves communication and collaboration between the mental health community and law enforcement. “This bill will give mental health care professionals the tools they need to better identify and respond to mental health crises and work with all levels of law enforcement to prevent violence,” said Ashford. “I will continue to vote for legislation that protects our communities and ensures we provide our most vulnerable with the help they need.” Congressman Ashford also stressed the importance of passing the “No Fly, No Buy” bill designed to keep weapons out of the hands of suspected terrorists. The bipartisan legislation written by Republican Congressman Peter King would prohibit suspected terrorists on the federal “no fly” list from purchasing weapons that can be used to commit acts of violence against innocent civilians. “Keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists is a commonsense way to strengthen our national security and ensure that acts of violence are not perpetrated on our communities. We must come together to find a way to strengthen background checks and protect law-abiding Americans their 2nd Amendment rights. The stakes are too high to retreat to partisan positions and talking points.” ###
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement following the announcement of the Offutt Air Force Base runway repairs: “Today’s announcement from the Pentagon is great news for the brave men and women stationed at Offutt Air Force Base and for the entire state. I am proud to work with the entire Nebraska delegation and as a member of the House Armed Services Committee to secure the funding for runway repairs. We are investing in the future of Offutt and ensuring it maintains its role as a crucial piece of our national security apparatus.” The estimated repairs will cost approximately $50-55 million and last 20 years. The Lincoln Airport will host the 55th Wing during the five to nine months it takes to repair the runway. ###
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Brad Ashford joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives urging greater security and shorter lines at the nation’s airports. “Nebraskans are fed up with the long lines and delays they face when they travel to and from Eppley Airfield,” said Rep. Ashford. “With workforce levels down 12 percent in recent years, it is past time we give the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) the funding and flexibility it needs to increase hiring and decrease wait times at airports across the country.” TSA‘s workforce is stretched thin as domestic air travel continues to increase year after year. Recent actions by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to alleviate wait times are a temporary solution to a larger issue that can be addressed by Congress. In a letter to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, Ashford and his fellow members of Congress ask that the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) be given the tools needed to address long lines at airports caused by staffing shortages. The letter lays out specific guidelines that the FY17 DHS Appropriations bill should include: Eliminate arbitrary restrictions that cap the size of TSA’s Transportation Security Officer (TSO) workforce without regard to the continually evolving and growing range of terrorist threats targeting the traveling public or the level of traveler demand; Ensure TSA possesses necessary flexibility to deploy TSO personnel in an agile and responsive manner that matches a continually changing threat environment and fluctuating traveler volumes based on various factors; Require TSA to analyze and enhance its TSO staffing allocation model to be more flexible and responsive to variations in travel volume; Provide TSA with necessary resources to recruit, retain and continually train a talented TSO workforce that is of sufficient quantity and quality to implement the improved staffing allocation model; and Ensure TSA is provided robust funding to deploy advanced personnel and proven detection technology, particularly K-9 teams, in an agile manner to airports experiencing elevated travel volumes and higher security threat assessments. “The TSA serves a crucial role in protecting our nation’s transportation systems and those who travel, so I urge members of the DHS Appropriations Subcommittee to ensure that TSA can do its job effectively,” Ashford said.
06.03.2016	Dublin – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford met with Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny in Dublin to discuss improving American-European trade relations and the role of the Irish Navy in the Syrian refugee crisis. The meeting took place at Leinster House, the seat of the parliament of Ireland. “I am proud of the strong relationship the United States shares with Ireland, and my meeting with Prime Minister Kenny is just one example of the commitment we have to maintaining that,” said Ashford. “Farmers and manufacturers across Nebraska rely on trade with European countries, and I am optimistic about the future of those partnerships after the meeting.” Congressman Ashford had the opportunity to meet with Bernard Durkin TD who represents Naas, one of Omaha’s sister cities, in the Irish Parliament. He presented Prime Minister Kenny and Mr. Durkin with copies of “Uniquely Omaha: 101 Things to Know About the Big O” by Michael Kelly. This is the Congressman’s second stop on a self-funded trip to Europe to meet with Omaha’s 55th Wing at RAF Mildenhall and European leaders.
05.26.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Brad Ashford introduced bipartisan legislation aimed at finding local jobs for our veterans. The Veteran Opportunities on Local Transportation (VOLT) Act of 2016 encourages contractors across the country to hire veterans for local construction jobs. “The VOLT Act brings job opportunities to the men and women who have served to protect our country and freedoms,” said Rep. Ashford, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “We are allowing veterans to apply for high-paying construction jobs that directly impact their community. This is one small way we can repay them for their service.” The VOLT Act amends existing law to allow state and local governments to establish local hiring incentives for veterans on federally funded transportation projects. The new requirements will not restrict contractors from beginning or completing a project if they are unable to find local veterans with the needed skills. “This legislation will have a positive impact on communities because returning veterans can find local jobs that do not take them away from their loved ones,” Ashford said. “Skilled tradesmen and laborers are needed across the country and veterans are looking for opportunities to use their unique skills, this is the opportunity they need.” The VOLT Act was introduced with Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) who also serves on the House Armed Services Committee. “Our service men and women put their lives on the line for their country and should have the same opportunities as other working Americans when they transition back into the civilian workforce,” Rep. Jones said. “I am honored to do all I can to help those who’ve worn the uniform.”
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Brad Ashford joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives today to pass long-needed bipartisan legislation to protect public health and the environment. The House overwhelmingly approved the TSCA Modernization Act of 2015 which reforms chemical safety laws dating back 40 years to the 1976 Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). “The TSCA Modernization Act of 2015 is a necessary update to decades-old regulations that restrict the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from effectively protecting public health and the environment,�? said Rep. Ashford. “Not only is this legislation good policy for environmental and public health, it gives industry and labor groups regulatory certainty so they can continue to create jobs for hardworking Americans.�? The bill is the result of years of work between both the House and Senate, stakeholders from a broad spectrum of industries, and the EPA. “Without bipartisan compromise, this legislation would not have passed both the House of Representatives and the Senate. I am encouraged by the willingness of both Parties to find a middle-of-the-road approach to update legislation that impacts every American.�? The legislation now goes back to the Senate for approval before being sent to President Obama’s desk and signed into law.
05.23.2016	Omaha, NE.—The House of Representatives voted today in favor of Congressman Brad Ashford’s bill honoring Navy SEAL Caleb A. Nelson, who gave his life for his country leaving behind his wife and two sons. Earlier this year Rep. Ashford introduced legislation renaming an Omaha post office in recognition of the 26-year-old Petty Officer 1st Class, who grew up in Omaha and was killed while on combat patrol in Afghanistan on October 1, 2011. Caleb died when his vehicle was struck by an improvised explosive device in Zabul province. “Though we cannot repay the ultimate sacrifice that Petty Officer Nelson made while protecting our nation, his legacy will now have a permanent and physical memory through H.R. 4975,” said Rep. Ashford. “Our Nation is defended by men and women who sacrifice to keep us free, protect our liberty, and strengthen our country. We have lost many brave men and women who have left this country to protect our way of life, and I am proud and humbled to stand before this House to honor the life and bravery of one of those men today.” Nebraska Congressmen Jeff Fortenberry and Adrian Smith are co-sponsors of the bill which would officially rename the U.S. Post Office at 5780 S. 142nd St., the “Petty Officer 1st Class Caleb A. Nelson Post Office Building.” Caleb has received numerous military awards including the Bronze Star with Valor and Purple Heart. He had been assigned to the Naval Special Warfare unit in Norfolk, Virginia since graduating SEAL training in 2006 and was initially deployed to Iraq in 2009. Caleb’s father, Rev. Larry Nelson of the Millard Alliance Church, and mother still live in Millard. His wife and sons continue to live in Norfolk. He also left behind nine siblings.
05.19.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-2) has voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017 to set annual defense policy, support our men and women in uniform abroad, and strengthen our national security here at home. “Passing the NDAA is a commitment to the security and safety of our country, said Rep. Ashford. “National security has been a top priority of mine since being elected to serve in the United States House of Representatives. We are ensuring that our brave men and women in uniform are well equipped to fight terrorism and other global threats.” The NDAA (H.R. 4909) for this year provides over $610 billion for national defense and reverses the drawdown of troop numbers while giving our troops a 2.1% pay raise. The NDAA also increases funding to fight cyber threats and keeps the Guantanamo Bay detention facility open, which Rep. Ashford continues to strongly support. Rep. Ashford prioritized vital parts of the bill including an increase for Air Force Operations and Maintenance and an expansion of the Information Technology Exchange Program (ITEP). Increasing funding to operations and maintenance improves the likelihood that Offutt Air Force Base’s new runway will be completed in the near future. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am proud to represent the hardworking men and women who are stationed at Offutt Air Force Base,” said Rep. Ashford. “Increased funding for the Air Force Operations and Maintenance budget is key to moving the Offutt runway project forward in a timely manner.” Expanding ITEP improves the transfer of information between the Department of Defense and private sector information technology employees. Allowing the DoD and private sector to coordinate is a unique way to improve best practices within the federal government’s information technology teams and uncover challenges that both face. Rep. Ashford continues to express concern about the funding structure of the NDAA for FY 2017. “We must not withhold resources from supplemental war funds to pay for base budget operations,” Rep. Ashford said. “Funding for our operations in Iraq and Afghanistan is set to run out by the middle of 2017. Republicans and Democrats must work together to ensure this does not happen.”
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford released this statement regarding the passage of bipartisan legislation designed to curb the opioid epidemic our country is facing. “I am proud to stand with my colleagues and pass an important package of legislation that focuses on a national epidemic,” said Ashford. “We must do all we can to protect communities ravaged by opioid addiction and give doctors and hospitals the appropriate tools to improve pain management for patients. This is just a first step in improving care and reducing the number of Americans who are victims of addiction.” Some of the bipartisan initiatives passed today include: Creating a Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction grant program, that would fund prevention, treatment, and recovery services to address opioid addiction. Cutting the risk of opioid addiction among veterans managing chronic pain. Improving the treatment and care of babies who are born addicted to opioids. Creating a grant program to help states increase access to naloxone, a lifesaving opioid overdose reversal drug. Providing information and resources to youth athletes and their families about the dangers of opioid use and abuse.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON – The House has passed the bipartisan Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, helping to protect veterans from this country’s growing opioid addiction crisis. Congressman Brad Ashford is a proud cosponsor of the legislation which requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update its opioid therapy guidelines and more closely track opioid use by veterans. “I am committed to supporting legislation that brings quality care to our veterans,” said Ashford a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Ensuring that the VA has the tools and training to improve pain management will reduce the instances of painkiller and opioid addiction within the veteran population.” According to an investigation by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), former Marine Jason Simcakoski died two years ago when staff at the VA Medical Center in Tomah, Wisconsin failed to properly prescribe 13 various medications, including several which cause respiratory depression, in a 24-hour period. The Jason Simcakoski Promise Act (Promoting Responsible Opioid Management & Incorporating Scientific Expertise) would also require the Government Accountability Office to report on the effectiveness of the VA's opioid therapy programs and assess whether the VA is exceeding the minimum-level standard of care. Protecting the men and women who have fought for our freedoms has been a priority for Congressman Ashford since he was elected to the House of Representatives in 2014. He has sponsored and supported 44 bills that protect benefits from cuts and create education and job opportunities for our veterans.
05.02.2016	Rep. Brad Ashford issued the following statement in relation to Russia’s latest military action in international waters over the Baltic Sea. “Russia’s military action over the Baltic Sea is intolerable and unacceptable,” said Rep. Brad Ashford, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I denounce these actions and will be in the Baltic region in the next 30 days to personally assess the situation including Mr. Putin’s intentions in this critical area. It is imperative that our troops are not put in harm’s way unnecessarily.”
04.29.2016	OMAHA – Congressman Brad Ashford’s mobile office is ready to answer a variety of questions and concerns you might have. Look for the Congressman’s representatives at several locations in May. “If you have questions about Social Security, the IRS, veterans or immigration problem— just to mention a few —we want to know,” said Congressman Ashford. “If the federal bureaucracy has you overwhelmed or wrapped in red tape, please stop by my mobile office.” Here’s a list of this month’s mobile office hours: Tuesday, May 3rd: Metro Community College, South Omaha Campus. 2902 Edward Babe Gomez Ave, Omaha. 12pm – 2pm. Wednesday, May 4th: Nebraska Job Fair. 7007 Grover Street, Omaha. 1pm – 6pm. Wednesday, May 11th: Omaha Public Library, Abrahams Branch. 5111 North 90th Street, Omaha. 2pm – 4pm. Friday, May 13th: Omaha Public Library, Benson Branch. 6015 Binney Street, Omaha. 1pm – 3pm. Monday, May 16th: Metro Community College, Elkhorn Valley Campus. 829 N 204th St, Elkhorn. 1pm – 3pm. Wednesday, May 18th: Latino Center of the Midlands. 4821 S. 24th Street, Omaha. 6pm – 8pm. Tuesday, May 24th: OPL Sorenson Branch (4808 Cass St, Omaha) 2pm – 4pm Friday, May 27th: Metro Community College, Sarpy Center. 9110 Giles Road, La Vista. 1pm – 3pm And we’re not stopping there. For updates, including future locations please check our website at ashford.house.gov, Facebook page at www.facebook.com/repbradashford and Twitter at twitter.com/RepBradAshford.
04.29.2016	Washington D.C.—In a letter to the U.S. Embassy in Peru, Congressman Brad Ashford has called for a thorough, fair and impartial investigation into the recent and tragic deaths of Larry and Christy Hammer of Gretna, Nebraska. “I cannot emphasize enough the need for an exhaustive and timely inquiry into this heart wrenching situation,” wrote Congressman Ashford. The couple died while vacationing aboard a cruise ship on the Amazon River in Peru. According to the couple’s family and various news reports, the circumstances surrounding the Hammers’ deaths are highly unusual. While it appears they died of smoke inhalation following an electrical fire on board the ship in the middle of the night, the family has many unanswered questions. Those include how the fire started and why the couple was not awakened and extracted from their cabin in time. Those questions are heightened by reports that no one else on board was injured. Rep. Ashford said he expects the U.S. Embassy will seek and receive full cooperation from Peruvian authorities and the travel company, International Expeditions. “I look forward to an immediate update of this case as you keep my office informed of any and all developments,” wrote Ashford. After receiving the letter a spokesperson for the U.S. Embassy in Peru telephoned Ashford’s office and said they will be contacting local authorities and provide an update as soon as possible.
04.28.2016	Washington, DC—Congressman Brad Ashford today introduced innovative, bipartisan legislation to pave the way for a state-of-the-art veterans’ medical facility in Omaha. “Our veterans sacrificed greatly for our nation and they deserve the best health care services we can provide,” said Rep. Ashford. “I’m proud to be part of a bipartisan team in Congress working toward a new medical center where our veterans can receive integrated health care services, including primary health care, mental health care, and ambulatory surgery.” Rep. Ashford’s legislation will allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into a public-private partnership agreement to plan, design, and construct new facilities for use by the Department of Veterans Affairs. It would also allow the VA to accept private donations of money and buildings. “There are too many veterans with unmet health care needs and too many veterans’ health care facilities in need of repair,” said. Rep. Ashford. “We must think of new approaches to address this need. This legislation will be a great start.” $56 million in federal funds have already been secured toward the new Omaha medical facility which, at 157,000 square feet, would be nearly the size of three football fields. The new medical facility would sit alongside the VA Hospital at 42nd and Woolworth. Both facilities would serve the 175,000 veterans in Nebraska and western Iowa. The Department of Veterans Affairs has previously said, “This new concept of a public-private partnership could be the new way forward for enhancing veteran health care in communities.” Veterans Secretary Bob McDonald has also said that the Omaha project could serve as a model for other cities. Rep. Ashford’s legislation is cosponsored by Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE-1), Rep. Adrian Smith (NE-3), Rep. David Young (IA-3), and Rep. Tim Walz (MN-1). Video of Congressman Brad Ashford&amp;#039;s Legislation Improves VA Services
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – Early this morning, Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-2) voted with a significant majority of the House Armed Services Committee to advance the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017 to the entire U.S. House of Representatives. “The security of our country and security of our families is my top priority in Congress,” said Rep. Ashford. “I am proud to support the National Defense Authorization Act because it provides vital funding for America’s military and ensures that our brave men and women in uniform are prepared to combat terrorism and other global threats.” The NDAA for this year provides $610 billion for national defense. It reverses the drawdown of troop numbers and funds a 2.1% troop pay raise. The NDAA also increases funding to fight cyber threats and keeps the Guantanamo Bay detention facility open. Rep. Ashford strongly supports these efforts. Rep. Ashford prioritized a number of key issues that were included in the bill advanced by the Committee, including increased funding for Air Force Operations and Maintenance. This additional funding increases the likelihood that the runway at Offutt Air Force Base will be repaired in the near future and was Rep. Ashford’s top priority request to the Committee. “I’m proud to stand up for Offutt Air Force Base on the House Armed Services Committee,” said Rep. Ashford. “Additional funding for the Air Force Operations and Maintenance budget is critical to ensure the Offutt runway project moves forward.” Rep. Ashford also helped lead the effort to expand the Information Technology Exchange Program (ITEP). ITEP is the temporary exchange of Department of Defense and private sector information technology employees. ITEP provides a unique opportunity for DoD and private sector organizations to share best practices, gain a better understanding of each other's information technology practices and challenges, and partner to address these challenges. Rep. Ashford did express concern about the funding structure of the NDAA for FY 2017. “It is critical that we do not take resources away from supplemental war funds to pay for base budget operations,” said Rep. Ashford. “As this process moves forward, we must work together and make sure we do not run out of funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan in the middle of 2017.” The NDAA will likely be debated by the U.S. House of Representatives in the coming weeks.
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) introduced bipartisan legislation which would help workers, who are part of a massive company shutdown or layoff, start a new business. The HIRED Act (Helping Individuals with Reemployment and Entrepreneurial Development) amends existing federal law to ensure that those forced out of their jobs are given the information and hands-on help needed to start their own small business. “This bill would help dislocated workers across the country gain the skills and knowledge to start their own businesses, create jobs, and give back to their communities,” said Ashford. “The HIRED Act is a proactive approach to handling unexpected plant closures and company relocations.” Following the recent announcement by ConAgra to move its headquarters from Omaha to Chicago, Congressman Ashford renewed his commitment to growing Nebraska’s economy through job creation and investing in people who need it most. “As a former small business owner, I know that small business is the bedrock of our economy,” said Ashford. “Investing in entrepreneurs and setting them up for success will create jobs across Nebraska and boost local economies.” The HIRED Act would allow states to allocate up to 10 percent of funds for outreach about small business opportunities and consultation about starting a new business. Receiving this advice and information is critical for future entrepreneurs, especially for those who have lost their jobs due to plant closures or mass layoffs.
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) joined 144 lawmakers on a bipartisan letter to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy. The Members seek answers on EPA Region 10’s funding of whatsupstream.com website and advocacy campaign in Washington State after learning that grant money was used to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards urging individuals to contact their state legislators. “I am disappointed in the actions taken by the EPA to lobby Washington State legislators using federal funds,” said Ashford. “With trust in our public officials at an all-time low, it is imperative that our federal agencies respect federal laws.” The EPA has actively approved funding Waters of the United States advocacy campaigns with grants, which clearly violates federal propaganda, advocacy, and lobbying laws. This revelation comes after being questioned about award monitoring by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) in a December 2015 report. “I join my colleagues in the House and Senate to reprimand the EPA and call on them to fully cooperate with investigations. I do not want to see this misuse of federal funds impact other states, such as Nebraska.”
04.18.2016	Omaha, NE. - Congressman Brad Ashford is honored to announce that he has introduced legislation renaming an Omaha post office in recognition of Navy SEAL Caleb A. Nelson, who gave his life for his country leaving behind his wife and two sons. The 26-year-old Petty Officer 1st Class, who grew up in Omaha, was killed while on combat patrol in Afghanistan on October 1, 2011 when his vehicle was struck by an improvised explosive device in Zabul province. “We must never forget the ultimate sacrifice Caleb made protecting our country,” said Rep. Ashford. “The post office that bears his name would serve as a reminder to future generations of Caleb’s distinct heroism.” Nebraska Congressmen Jeff Fortenberry and Adrian Smith are co-sponsors of the bill which would officially rename the U.S. Post Office at 5780 S. 142nd St., the “Petty Officer 1st Class Caleb A. Nelson Post Office Building.” Caleb has received numerous military awards including the Bronze Star with Valor and Purple Heart. He had been assigned to the Naval Special Warfare unit in Norfolk, Virginia since graduating SEAL training in 2006 and was initially deployed to Iraq in 2009. Caleb’s father, Rev. Larry Nelson of the Millard Alliance Church, and mother still live in Millard. His wife and sons continue to live in Norfolk. He also left behind nine siblings. ###
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE- 02) joined colleagues in staunchly opposing cuts to veteran’s benefits currently being considered by Congress. The Post-9/11 GI Bill is one of the most significant bills Congress has passed in a generation, and it promises our veterans access to education benefits, including housing allowances that can be transferred to family members. Proposed cuts would reduce these benefits by half if a veteran parent transfers them to their children. “We are asking our military to do incredible things since 9/11. I do not understand why we are talking about restricting; we need to be expanding these benefits,” said Rep. Ashford. “There should be no question that when someone comes back from service they have a job, seamless healthcare and education benefits” Ashford says not funding these benefits breaks a sacred promise our nation has made to our service members and their families. Ashford was joined at the press conference outside the U.S. Capitol by Representatives Tim Walz (MN-01), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Tammy Duckworth (IL-08), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Gwen Graham (FL-02) along with Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Founder and CEO Paul Rieckhoff and representatives from the Air Force Sergeants Association, the Association of the United States Navy, Commissioned Officers Association, Vietnam Veterans of America and other Veterans advocates and supporters. ###
03.15.2016	Washington D.C.—The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congressman Brad Ashford with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of Ashford’s support for pro-growth, pro-jobs policies in the 114th Congress. This prestigious award is presented annually to members of Congress based on their votes on key business issues. “I am honored to receive the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award. In Congress, one of my top priorities has been to grow our economy and create jobs that can support a family,” said Congressman Ashford. “To move our country forward, we must create an economic environment that encourages innovation and entrepreneurship. We must also invest in infrastructure and job training for the next century and we must fix our broken immigration system.” “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Ashford for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Spirit of Enterprise Award goes to members of the U.S. House and Senate who support the U.S. Chamber of Commerce position on key business issues at least 70 percent of the time. Congressman Ashford’s cumulative score was 90 percent.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) introduced a balanced-budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would require the federal government to balance the budget. “Washington should follow Nebraska’s commonsense lead and pursue a balanced budget,” said Ashford. “In Nebraska, we do not spend money we do not have. Washington should work the same way.” Congressman Ashford’s proposal would prohibit annual spending from exceeding the revenue collected from the previous year. “This proposal will change the way we make decisions and will force Congress to prioritize spending,” said Ashford. “In the Nebraska Legislature, we must have a balanced budget and that requires us to find common ground and shared priorities. This amendment will address our alarming level of national debt while requiring Congress to make bipartisan compromises. We must move the national dialogue toward greater fiscal responsibility.” The amendment would provide exemptions in specific circumstances. In the event of war or economic decline, the federal government would have the option to pass a budget that does not balance. The legislation also provides protections for Social Security and Medicare benefits. For the amendment to become law, it would require the support of at least two-thirds of each House of Congress, and be ratified by three-quarters of the states. Congressman Ashford’s balanced-budget amendment has five cosponsors and has been endorsed by the conservative Blue Dog Coalition.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON - Today, Secretary Robert McDonald announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is ready to begin working with the Omaha community on a new veterans’ facility. According to the Secretary, the proposed project would be 157,000 square feet and cost $136.3 million. The pilot project would be a public-private partnership, a first for the Department. In response to this announcement, Congressman Brad Ashford released the following statement: “I am very pleased the Department of Veterans Affairs wants to partner with the Omaha community to build a world-class center for veterans’ care. I have made this project one of my top priorities in the U.S. House and I will keep working every day with the entire Nebraska delegation to make this plan a reality. Our veterans deserve the best care available and shouldn’t have to wait another 10 or 20 years for a new Omaha facility. “This announcement is a great first step and is a testament to the generosity of the Omaha community. We value the sacrifices our veterans have made.”
02.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) supported the passage of a bill to improve job training for minorities, women, and veterans for careers in energy production and manufacturing fields. “We need a modern workforce to grow our economy in the 21st century,” said Ashford. “Closing the skills gap in the field of energy production and manufacturing is critical to maintaining our technological edge and strengthening our American energy security. Widening the pool of specialized skills for these technical careers is a commonsense effort that I am proud to support.” H.R. 4583 would direct the Secretary of Energy to prioritize education and training for underrepresented groups to strengthen our skilled workforce energy production and manufacturing by partnering with universities, colleges and outreach programs. The bill specifies that resources should be directed to training programs for renewable energy as well as traditional sources. “As a supporter of an all-of-the-above energy strategy, I am confident that this bill will improve our country’s energy security while creating jobs and improving our training programs,” said Ashford.
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON - Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s plan to close the military prison at Guantanamo Bay: “I oppose the President’s efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. Our elected leaders’ greatest responsibility is ensuring the safety of our communities and our families. Guantanamo Bay houses dangerous terrorists who must be kept in isolation, away from our citizens. We must also make sure these enemy combatants do not return to the battlefield. This decision should not be made unilaterally. Congress is the law-making body and should debate closure of this camp and develop consensus regarding its future.”
02.18.2016	Omaha, NE. – Congressman Brad Ashford is proud to invite students, parents, guidance counselors, and representatives of the U.S. service academies for a comprehensive overview of the college experience this Saturday. Those attending will get expert held regarding financial aid, how to complete the Free Application for Student Federal Aid (FAFSA), along with an in-depth look at the admission process at the five military academies. Where: Westside Community Conference Center, 3534 S. 108th St., Omaha. When: Saturday, February 20th, 9 a.m.-Noon. 9-10am: Service Academy Workshop 10-11am: Student Aid Seminar 11-noon: College Readiness Fair
02.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Brad Ashford hardened his stance against North Korea by introducing a resolution formally condemning the regime’s latest aggressive acts and voting in favor of strengthening and expanding the latest round of international sanctions. “For too long, a tyrannical and dangerous North Korean regime has been allowed to threaten American interests and our regional allies while committing unconscionable human rights violations,” said Ashford a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Their most recent missile tests and restart of a plutonium reactor show North Korea is not responding to UN demands, sanctions, and international law. I strongly support the expansion of sanctions passed by the House of Representatives today and have introduced a resolution of condemnation to send a clear message to the Jong-Un regime that his unbridled aggression will not go unnoticed or unpunished.” The resolution cites North Korea’s history of violating international standards, including the recent long-range weapons test and restart of a plutonium reactor as worthy of condemnation. It also seeks to encourage our partners in the United Nations to maintain pressure on the regime. H.R. 757, the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act, passed the House of Representatives earlier today with nearly unanimous bipartisan support, including Congressman Ashford. The bill strengthens and expands enforcement of existing sanctions against the North Korean government.
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON- Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) today announced his cosponsorship of legislation to provide federal funding to student veterans centers at colleges and universities. “Helping our veterans successfully transition into civilian life is a commonsense goal,” said Ashford. “The grants created by this legislation will ensure our veterans have access to the resources they need to complete their education in a veteran-friendly environment.” H.R. 1399, the Veteran Education Empowerment Act, would create 30 competitive grants to be distributed to America’s institutes of higher education. Grants could be used to establish new veterans centers or to supplement veterans programs at existing centers. Two local universities, the University of Nebraska Omaha, and Bellevue University, are consistently ranked as the most veteran-friendly educational institutes in the country. Both universities would be eligible to compete for funding. “I have seen firsthand the impact of educational and support resources for our service men and women who are looking to complete or further their education,” said UNO Chancellor, John Christensen. “There is no substitute for first-hand experience and knowledge that these students can get on campus. We are proud to be the nation’s top-ranked four-year university for veterans and I don’t think we could have accomplished that honor without having our Office for Military and Veteran Services.”
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) was named the sixth most bipartisan Member of the House of Representatives - and votes against his party nearly a third of the time - according to CQ Roll Call. “It’s an honor to be recognized for my independent approach in Washington,” said Ashford. “The only way Congress will solve the challenges we face as a country is to compromise and work with people on the other side of the aisle to build consensus. Throughout my entire career, I’ve been more focused on the quality of a proposed solution than which party was offering it. I don’t believe either party has a monopoly on good ideas.” According to the rankings, Congressman Ashford, a Member of the Congressional Problem Solvers Caucus, votes against his party 28.1% of the time during controversial votes. Every other member of the Nebraska Congressional Delegation votes with their party 90% of the time or more. CQ Roll Call, formerly known as Congressional Quarterly, tabulates Party Unity Scores by selecting votes in which a majority of Democrats oppose a majority of Republicans. Members of Congress who vote against their party during these controversial votes receive lower Party Unity scores. Many votes are considered non-controversial, and are passed by voice-vote. These votes are not recorded unless a recorded vote is specifically requested. These and other votes which are considered non-controversial do not factor into the final Party Unity calculation. Congressman Ashford has also cosponsored 231 bills, 81.8% of which have bipartisan support.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON – Last night, the House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Congressman Brad Ashford aimed at addressing high rates of suicide among veterans.“Fulfilling our commitments to veterans means providing comprehensive healthcare – including mental healthcare,” said Ashford. “This legislation will offer the assistance our vets need to live happy and fulfilling lives.” H.R. 2915, the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act, would express the sense of Congress that veterans who experience mental health challenges as a result of their service receive immediate, comprehensive mental health assistance. The bill would also identify and establish programs specifically aimed at addressing suicide among female veterans. “I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting the Female Suicide Prevention Act, commonsense legislation to help our veterans regardless of their gender,” said Ashford a member of the House Armed Services Committee. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, female vets commit suicide at nearly six times the rate of the general population, while male veterans commit suicide at one and a half times the rate of their civilian counterparts. Congressman Ashford also supported the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act to improve mental health services at the VA. He is also a cosponsor of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, a bill aimed at addressing mental health issues in the civilian population.
01.12.2016	I appreciate the President’s thoughtful commentary on the state of the union and his positive outlook for our nation. I am hopeful that we will continue to build on the bipartisan compromise achieved between Congress and the President last year to secure a stronger America. We must redouble our efforts to degrade and destroy ISIS, and Congress must take a more active role in this discussion. We have to focus on growing our economy by simplifying the tax code, supporting small businesses, and improving job training efforts. We also have to ensure that we fulfill our commitments to veterans by expanding access to healthcare, education, and employment opportunities. I am confident we can make meaningful progress on these important issues and look forward to collaborating with friends on both sides of the aisle to get it done.
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) voted in favor of a bill aimed at cutting government red tape on small businesses and modernizing federal regulations. “As a former small business owner, I know how important local companies are to growing our economy,” said Ashford. “This legislation will ease unfair burdens on small businesses while also making government more efficient and ultimately saving taxpayer money.” H.R. 1155, the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act of 2015 would establish a commission to review audit regulations that have been on the books for 15 years or more. While improving the effectiveness of government oversight, the commission would focus on reducing regulatory burdens on small businesses and cutting the costs of regulation which may be hindering opportunities for economic growth. Following a five year review period, the commission’s recommendations would require Congressional approval to take effect. The investigation and findings would be posted on a publicly accessible website.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford today called on Congress to work more in 2016. Ashford says working fewer days delays action on key issues like protecting our homeland, creating jobs, and caring for our veterans. “My constituents work a lot more than four months a year – and so should Congress,” said Ashford, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Congress should not be taking days off when our national security is in question. We have waited far too long to authorize the use of force against ISIS.” The House of Representatives is scheduled to take over eight weeks of vacation during the summer and another eight weeks off in the fall, working only 111 days in 2016. “Congress needs to get to work on fulfilling our promises to veterans. We can’t achieve these goals if Congress is on vacation most of the year.” said Ashford. Congressman Ashford criticized the House last year for adjourning in August without passing critical legislation on transportation and trade. This year’s calendar includes over three weeks of extra days off compared with the 2015 schedule.
12.30.2015	“The willingness and eagerness to serve their country that these young men and women display is truly inspiring,” said Congressman Ashford. "Military service is a special challenge, especially at this time in our nation’s history when combat roles have increased dramatically. I am confident that these students will represent the Second Congressional District with honor and distinction. I am humbled to have the privilege of nominating them.” The following individuals received nominations: Ms. Jade Adler Ralston High School United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Chase Alberts Omaha Creighton Prep High School United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. John Connolly Millard North High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Jarrett Damewood Omaha Skutt High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Max DeMayo Mount Michael Benedictine High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Brandon Downey Millard North High School United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Joseph Ernatt Omaha Creighton Prep High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. John Forbes Omaha Creighton Prep High School United States Air Force Academy Mr. John Goding Omaha Central High School United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Ms. Courtney Green University of Nebraska at Omaha United States Military Academy Mr. Luke Harnisch United States Marine Corps. United States Naval Academy Mr. Drew Homa Omaha Creighton Prep High School United States Military Academy Ms. Madalyn Hyland Millard North High School United States Naval Academy Mr. Zachary Hytrek Mount Michael Benedictine High School United States Naval Academy Mr. Joshua Lampe Roncalli Catholic High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy, and a Letter of Recommendation to the United States Coast Guard Academy Ms. Kathryn Lanzante Omaha Skutt High School United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Kaden Nichols Omaha Burke High School United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy, and a Letter of Recommendation to the United States Coast Guard Academy Mr. William Schenken Omaha Creighton Prep High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Benjamin Scholz Virginia Tech United States Naval Academy Mr. Travis Schwartz Papillion La Vista High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy Mr. Connor Schwetschenau Omaha Skutt High School United States Air Force Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Troy Suwondo Omaha Westside High School United States Air Force Academy Mr. Earl Thomas IV Radford University United States Naval Academy Nominations are based on a variety of criteria: a candidate's high school academic ranking, SAT or ACT scores, athletic ability, leadership potential as demonstrated by extra-curricular activities, community service, and employment. A nomination from Rep. Ashford does not guarantee an appointment to a service academy. It is the decision of the individual academies to issue appointments. The Coast Guard Academy at New London, Conn., does not require a nomination.
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) voted today in favor of comprehensive bipartisan legislation cutting taxes on individuals and businesses. “American families and the American economy need tax relief, “said Ashford. “This bill makes critical tax breaks for working families permanent and incentivizes the growth of our small businesses. These measures will provide a boost to our local economy and enhance financial stability for families.” A number of tax credits which benefit individuals and businesses will expire at the end of this year without Congressional reauthorization. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act represents a bicameral, bipartisan compromise to extend some tax credits, and make others permanent. Individual tax credits include the earned income tax credit (EITC) and child tax credit (CTC), which benefit hard working families with children. The bill also includes tax credits for charitable giving. Business tax credits include incentives for research and development, small business investment, and renewable energy. The bill passed the House on a vote of 318-109.
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford announced the Nebraska National Guard’s critical new role protecting the homeland against cyber terrorism. The Nebraska Guard has been selected for a new Army National Guard Cyber Protection Team (CPT), along with the Missouri and Arkansas National Guards. This CPT will host a 39 soldier unit. “Nebraska is an ideal host for these units, and speaks to our state’s leadership in the digital age. Every state applied and fought for selection, so we are very proud to be chosen to receive one of these important CPT’s.” said Ashford. “Our increasing reliance on cyber networks requires more robust defensive capabilities. The silicon prairie will provide a high level of talent while creating opportunities for patriotic Americans to protect our country’s critical cyber infrastructure.” The units will conduct defensive missions in protection of Department of Defense (DOD) networks and critical infrastructure. They will be designed to provide support to Army Cyber Command and support defensive cyberspace operations. Each unit will become specialized in a specific part of cyber protection. The National Guard believes a new focus on cyber protection will help recruit private sector employees who currently work in the cyber, computer, and technology fields and can contribute their expertise and experience towards defending our nation from cyber-attacks. “These Cyber Protection Teams provide a strong opportunity for Nebraska to boost our recruitment and retention efforts. Transitioning service members will have the ability to continue their service as members of the Guard. Additionally, CPT’s create new opportunities for Americans who may not have considered serving to have a new avenue to contribute to national security.” “This was a team effort,” said Ashford. “Our state’s entire congressional delegation will continue to be strong advocates in Washington for Nebraska’s capabilities to host missions like this.” Additional information regarding the base location and Guard member assignments of this team has not been determined and will be released at a later date. The new CPT will be expected to begin in Fiscal Year 2018, with the expectation it will be mission ready by Fiscal Year 2019. Ashford is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats. # # #
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) has cosponsored a bipartisan measure, H.R. 1076, to prevent terrorists from acquiring guns and explosives. “I acted to protect the American people by cosponsoring H.R. 1076 and signing the discharge petition to bring this bill to the floor of the House,” said Ashford. “I support the second amendment, but keeping guns and explosives out of the hands of suspected terrorists is not gun control; it’s a common sense, responsible way to strengthen our national security. I will continue to vote in favor of keeping America safe at home while also pushing for the use of force against terrorists in the Middle East.” The Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorist Act would prevent the sale of firearms and explosives to any individual the Attorney General has determined to be engaged in terrorism related activities, a bipartisan proposal that was supported by the previous Justice Department under George W. Bush. Although the bill has not yet been brought to the floor of the House for consideration, a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers is working to force a vote through a discharge petition that requires the signature of 218 Representatives.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – In a push to make the country safer, Congressman Brad Ashford is the lead Democrat on a bipartisan bill cracking down on terrorists. Ashford joins Congressman Charlie Dent (R-PA) on the Enemy Expatriation Act (H.R. 4186) which would pull the citizenship of Americans who join terrorist movements abroad. “Citizens who leave our country in hopes of joining ISIS don’t consider themselves Americans, and neither should the law,” said Ashford. “Allowing terrorists to return to the United States with all the benefits of citizenship puts our country at extreme and unnecessary risk. I am proud to join with Congressman Dent on this commonsense, bipartisan legislation.” Former U.S Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said in September of last year that, “We have acknowledged publicly we are aware of over 100 U.S. citizens who have U.S. passports who are fighting in the Middle East with ISIL forces.” The Enemy Expatriation Act would retract the citizenship of Americans who travel to foreign countries to join or support terrorist organizations recognized by the U.S State Department. Currently, American citizenship can be revoked when someone takes an oath of allegiance to a foreign country or if an American serves in the military of a foreign country. Under these conditions, it is clear that those who pledge allegiance to ISIS, Al Qaeda, and other similar terrorist organizations meet these criteria. The federal government can currently revoke citizenship if an American wages war against the United States in cooperation with a state enemy and this bill clarifies that this action should also apply to non-state terrorist organizations abroad.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) voted to develop responsible, bipartisan energy policies including both renewable and traditional energy sources. Ashford voted in support of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015. The bill streamlines the federal approval process for hydroelectric generation facilities and natural gas transmission lines. The legislation also improves the Department of Energy’s ability to coordinate with other agencies to strengthen our electrical power grid system and requires the Energy Department to expedite decisions on pending applications to export Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). “For too long, the drawn-out approval process has allowed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to drag its feet on key projects to develop hydro power and natural gas,” said Ashford. “This bipartisan bill signals a commitment to an all-of-the-above energy strategy which allows America to responsibly develop its traditional energy sources while also capitalizing on renewable energy.”
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Last night, Congressman Brad Ashford (D-NE) voted in support of bipartisan legislation to improve K-12 education and reform the flawed No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act. S. 1177, the Every Student Achieves Act, represents a compromise between House-passed and Senate-passed versions of the bill. Under S. 1177, federally mandated yearly progress reports will be replaced with state-based accountability systems. States may devise and implement their own system as long as they comply with the law. “No Child Left Behind was flawed policy that prevented underperforming schools from getting necessary resources to help their students succeed,” said Ashford. “Under NCLB, students were also over-tested. The Every Student Achieves Act resolves that problem and provides greater flexibility to states and local districts while retaining strong accountability standards. This bill will ensure that all students, regardless of location or income, are able to adequately prepare for their future.” The bill does not include a federal mandate for states to adopt controversial Common Core standards. S. 1177 includes strong support for students from at-risk populations including students with disabilities, students living in poverty or experiencing homelessness, and students who are learning English. Congressman Ashford also cosponsored the Student Testing and Accountability Act which would limit federal yearly testing requirements.
12.03.2015	Washington – Congressman Brad Ashford voted today in favor of a long-sought, long-term bipartisan plan which will improve Nebraska’s bridges and roads and boost the state’s economy on several fronts. The five year $305 billion FAST Act (Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act, H.R. 22) pumps $253 billion into highway and transit projects—$1.5 billion for Nebraska—while reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank until 2019, giving several Nebraska companies a leg-up in international business deals. “Road and infrastructure work has been running on fumes with one irresponsible short-term patch after another,” said Ashford. “This legislation will help heal the hundreds of Nebraska bridges that need repair and bring roads across the state into the 21st Century, while creating infrastructure jobs in both the short and long term.” Jobs are also at the doorstep of the Export-Import Bank which was shut down on July 1st. During Congressman Ashford’s first 11 months in office he has visited several local firms that rely on the Export-Import Bank to grow their bottom line while adding good-paying middle class jobs. “Last year the 2nd Congressional district—with the help of the Export-Import Bank— exported over $60 million of Nebraska-manufactured goods all over the world, including China and Mexico,” said Ashford. “Not only is the Bank a proven job creator it also transfers money to the Treasury, $7 billion over the last 20 years, to reduce the deficit.” The highway bill also includes language to fully repeal the provision which cut crop insurance. Under this agreement, crop insurance will remain viable and solvent. When it is enacted this legislation will mark the first transportation package since 2005 that lasts longer than two years.
11.24.2015	Omaha, NE - Today, Congressman Brad Ashford denounced hateful, anti-Muslim rhetoric being used by leading political figures in the United States. Ashford issued the following statement: I am disappointed that the political debate in our nation has unfortunately taken an ugly and dangerous turn. Hate is filling our airwaves. As a Member of Congress, I swore to uphold the Constitution and the American values in it. The despicable ideas of closing down places of worship or keeping a registry of citizens' religious affiliations are un-American and should be resoundingly denounced. America's core strength has always been our great diversity. This inflammatory rhetoric is distracting us from a serious discussion about America's security needs. We must take action to protect this nation against ISIS and other radicals who want to do us harm. We must swiftly review our refugee screening process and reassure the American people that refugees entering the United States are not a security risk. We must also act to restrict the visa wavier program and prevent suspected terrorists from purchasing guns. Serious-minded, thoughtful policymakers stand ready to work in the spirit of bipartisanship to secure our nation from the real threats we face, not rhetorical ones.
11.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Today the Blue Dog Coalition announced their support for H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, as currently drafted. The bill simply adds Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) review and unanimous agreement between the Department of Homeland Security, FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence before refugees from Iraq and Syria are admitted to the United States. “In the wake of the horrific attacks in Paris, we must step back and reassess our existing procedures for admitting and monitoring refugees from Iraq and Syria,” said Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02). “I am proud of America’s legacy as a welcoming nation to people fleeing violence in their home countries, but during the process of admitting refugees from countries associated with ISIS, we have to ensure that those coming to the U.S. do not pose a threat to the American people.” “We live in a world where threats to our homeland have become an unfortunate part of life. This commonsense bill does not shut down the asylum process, but makes it stronger and makes it safer for America to do the right thing by accepting legitimate refugees into our country,” said Congressman Kurt Schrader (OR-05). The American SAFE Act will be taken up for a vote in the House tomorrow. -###- The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, and are committed to working across the aisle to find solutions to the biggest issues facing the United States. Visit the Blue Dog website at http://bluedog.schrader.house.gov/ to learn more. You can also news updates on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/BlueDogPress.
11.16.2015	In the wake of the heinous terrorist acts in Paris, our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the people of France. Nothing is more important than the security of the United States and our allies. Terrorist attacks, whether in Europe or here at home, constitute an attack on all of us. These attacks will not deter us from seeking justice, but instead will stiffen our resolve. Since traveling to the Middle East in February, I have been clear and resolute on the U.S. approach to ISIS. ISIS is out to destroy us and we must take action first to destroy them. For months, I have pushed Congress to take action and authorize military force against ISIS and I will continue to fight for a strategic military solution to not only contain, but to destroy ISIS. In the meantime, we must work to ensure our country is safe from threats both foreign and domestic. We must immediately conduct a thorough review of our screening processes for Syrian Refugees; to ensure no one who seeks to do us harm is allowed to enter our country.
11.03.2015	OMAHA –Congressman Brad Ashford is pleased to announce a free one-day community event geared toward putting veterans to work. The Veterans Jobs Summit will be held Monday, November 9th at the Scott Conference Center on the campus of the University of Nebraska at Omaha. “Providing veterans and their military families with the employment resources and tools they need to succeed is one of my top priorities,�? said Congressman Ashford. “Fifty-five exhibitors—ranging from corporations and small businesses to non-profit, government and educational organizations—will be on site, ready and willing to extend a hiring hand.�? The summit features a “Boots to Business�? seminar for veterans interested in starting their own business and a Job Fair connecting veterans directly with this region’s premier employers. The Job Fair is designed to connect veterans with employers who recognize the valuable assets—unique leadership skills, security clearances, understanding of cutting-edge technology—that comes from a military background. Veterans will also be connected with programs and services for which they may be eligible. “Boots to Business�? is an entrepreneurship training program developed by the U.S. Small Business Administration, introducing veterans to the fundamentals of business ownership—from start-ups to franchises—and accessing financing. This program will also introduce participating veterans to a network of business support which is locally available.
10.30.2015	Since traveling to the Middle East in February, I have been clear and resolute on how the U.S. should approach the threat posed by ISIS. ISIS is out to destroy us and we must take action to destroy them first. For months, I have pushed Congress to take action and authorize military force against ISIS. We must come together to establish a unified strategy to eliminate the threat ISIS presents.
10.29.2015	I want to congratulate Rep. Paul Ryan on being elected the Speaker of the House of Representatives. I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan to find bipartisan ways to grow our economy, secure our nation and keep our promises to Nebraska veterans. I appreciate the serious and innovative approach to policy that Speaker Ryan demonstrated as a member of Congress and am hopeful that his leadership will bring members together.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted in favor of an historic bipartisan budget agreement: “Just when it seemed that Congress’ prospects for compromise couldn’t have looked gloomier, the House passed a responsible, bipartisan budget deal to fulfill our debt obligations. Defaulting on our loans would devastate our economy and threaten the livelihood of Nebraska families and businesses. This historic deal will provide our military with the certainty it needs to effectively plan and protect the American people. It will also pave the way for passage of the critical National Defense Authorization Act. I thank my friends on both sides of the aisle for their cooperation in passing this essential legislation.” The budget deal will prevent a default on America’s loan obligations and increase the debt ceiling until March 15 of 2017.
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today announced his cosponsorship of a bill to incentivize careers in farming for young people. H.R. 2590, the Young Farmer Success Act of 2015, would extend an existing loan forgiveness program for careers in public service to our nation’s farmers. “Farmers feed America,” said Ashford, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. “If that’s not public service, I’m not sure what is. Only six percent of our country’s farmers are under the age of 35. We need to incentivize careers in farming to ensure we have a sustainable employment model to protect America’s food security going forward. Everyone who is interested in a career in agriculture should have the opportunity to pursue it without fears of lifelong debt.” Currently, the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program allows teachers, nurses and employees in public service to receive loan forgiveness under specific circumstances. Qualifying employees must pay their loans on-time and work in public service for 10 years to receive this benefit. Steven Waller, Dean of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln is a strong advocate of the bill. “We are confident that such a proposal could certainly provide an important incentive for students who are reluctant to even consider agribusiness careers because of anticipated student debt,” said Waller. Executive Director and Co-founder of the National Young Farmers Coalition, Lindsey Lusher Shute said of the bill, “We are extremely proud of the coalition that has come together in support of this bill….If we want to support farm economies and feed our nation, not just for the next five years but for the next five generations and beyond, we must make recruiting young farmers a top priority.” Under the Young Farmer Success Act, farmers with student loan debt would be required to work for 10 years at a qualified farm or ranch and make loan payments on-time to be eligible for the program. For a farm or ranch to qualify, it must earn a gross profit of at least $35,000 per year.
10.19.2015	OMAHA – With Medicare’s latest Open Enrollment period now underway through December 7, Congressman Ashford wants to make sure all seniors have access to the best information. Plans change from year to year, so can prescriptions. It is important for Medicare enrollees to review their options to ensure the plan they are in remains the best plan to meet their needs. Congressman Ashford will have mobile offices at enrollment events coordinated by the Nebraska Senior Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP). Those interested in an appointment may contact SHIIP at 1-800-234-7119. Friday, October 23rd – Metropolitan Community College, Elkhorn Campus. 204th & West Dodge Rd. from 9 a.m. -2 p.m. Wednesday, October 28th – Sump Memorial Library 222 N Jefferson St., Papillion from 9:30 a.m. –2:30 p.m. Friday, November 6th – Metropolitan Community College, LaVista Campus. 9110 Giles Rd., LaVista from 9 a.m.-2 p.m. Friday, November 13th – Goodwill Industries. 4805 N 72nd St. from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday, November 20th – Metropolitan Community College, Elkhorn Campus. 204th & W Dodge Rd., from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday, December 4th – Goodwill Industries. 4805 N 72nd St. from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Those unable to attend can visit: http://www.Medicare.gov to learn about different options, check your current enrollment, and apply for a plan. You also can call Medicare and speak to an expert directly by dialing 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). By the way, my mobile office is happy to help with plenty of other issues as well, including immigration, Social Security and passports, just to mention a few. For updates, including future locations, please check Congressman Ashford’s website at ashford.house.gov, Facebook page at www.facebook.com/repbradashford and Twitter at twitter.com/RepBradAshford
10.06.2015	Omaha, NE – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford announced he will reject another congressional perk. Congressman Ashford will not send mass mailings at taxpayers’ expense. “We must end special privileges for Members of Congress,” said Ashford. “Nebraskans expect elected officials to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. That’s why I will not spend tax dollars for self-promoting mass mailings, which do not help my constituents.” Congressman Ashford is a cosponsor of the “Ending Special Mail Privileges for Congress Act of 2015” (H.R. 1873). This bipartisan legislation would repeal franking privileges for Members of Congress and congressional officials. Congressman Ashford also announced he will redirect funds within his Congressional office budget to host and promote a veterans small business seminar and jobs fair in Omaha. “There is nothing more important than keeping our promise to the men and women who have served our country in the armed forces,” said Ashford. “That’s why I am prioritizing a small business seminar and jobs fair for Nebraska veterans.” The “Boots to Business” small business seminar and jobs fair will be held on Monday, November 9th at the University of Nebraska at Omaha Scott Conference Center from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. More information about this event will be provided in coming weeks. Congressman Ashford has an extensive record of rejecting and working to eliminate Congressional perks: Donated 10 percent of his Congressional salary to establish the Nebraska Second Congressional District Scholarship, which was awarded earlier this year. Returned $540.00 – fair market value for use of the Congressional gym - to Treasury. Introduced the No Homeland Security, No Pay Act (H.R. 1032) to stop Congressional pay if there is a shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security. Cosponsored the No Raise for Congress Act (H.R. 513) to eliminate automatic pay adjustments for Members of Congress. Cosponsored the Congressional Halt in Pay Increases and Cut Congressional Pay Act (H.R. 688) to reduce Congressional pay by 10 percent. Cosponsored the No Budget, No Pay Act (H.R. 187) to stop Congressional pay if Congress does not pass a budget resolution and pass all appropriations bills. Cosponsored the End Pensions in Congress Act (H.R. 584) to end pensions for Members of Congress. According to a May 2015 report from the Congressional Research Service, House Members have sent 145.5 million total pieces of mass mail since 2012, at a total cost of $53.8 million. In 2014, freshman members of Congress spent an average of $81,420 on mass mail and related communications.
10.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) announced that he has cosponsored the End Pensions in Congress “EPIC” Act (H.R. 584). The bill would ban Members of Congress from participating in the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees’ Retirement system. “We must end special privileges for Members of Congress,” said Ashford. “Congressional pensions are just one more example of special privileges for elected officials who should be here to serve – not cash in at the taxpayer’s expense.” Currently, Members of Congress are eligible for a pension at the age of 62 if they have completed at least five years of service. “Private business and nonprofit sectors don’t pay out full pensions to employees who are employed for only five years and neither should Congress, especially when taxpayers are forced to foot the bill,” Ashford said. “Our retirement system should be similar to Nebraskans who work in the private sector.” Congressman Ashford is the only Democratic cosponsor. Congressman Ashford has also cosponsored the No Raise for Congress Act to prevent automatic pay increases for Members of Congress. Additionally, he has cosponsored the Congressional Halt in Pay Increases and Cut Congressional Pay Act to prevent automatic raises and cut Congressional pay by 10%. Although these measures have not yet been considered by the full House of Representatives, Congressman Ashford has forfeited 10% of his pay to establish the Nebraska Second Congressional District Scholarship, which was awarded earlier this year.
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford announced he was proposing an amendment to the rules of the House of Representatives aimed at reducing partisan influence in the legislative body. The Effective Leadership Elections for Congressional Trust (ELECT) Resolution would require that the election of the Speaker of the House be conducted by secret ballot. “Congress is so broken and so partisan that significant reforms to the institution itself are needed,” said Ashford. “We cannot continue to have a legislative branch that is more beholden to partisanship and special interests than governing for the good of the country.” The Nebraska Legislature has conducted leadership elections by secret ballot for more than four decades. This June, the Louisiana Senate voted to elect future leaders by secret ballot, citing too much outside influence on the election. The U.S. House of Representatives conducted leadership elections by secret ballot before 1839. “The election of the Speaker of the House should be about who is most fit to lead this body and most able to build consensus. That is how we do it in Nebraska,” said Ashford. “No one should cast their vote for Speaker based on the fear of retribution of party bosses, or hyper-partisan special interests.” There have been widely documented accounts of retribution in the House due to previous elections for Speaker.
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass a continuing resolution to fund the government: “Today, the House of Representatives proved that it could put partisanship aside for the common good. I am pleased I could join 276 of my colleagues to pass critical funding legislation. It’s now time for Congress to get to work to pass long-term, sustainable funding. We should focus on making key investments to grow America’s economy.” The government will be funded at current rates until December 11. The Continuing Resolution passed on a vote of 277 – 151.
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) issued the following statement following Pope Francis’ historic address to a joint session of Congress. “The Pope’s message of unity and cooperation come at a time of great division in our society and throughout the world. The call to end polarization and build bridges is a message that Washington badly needs to hear. Lawmakers - as representatives of our citizens - must heed his calls to find common goals and peaceful solutions. Pope Francis’ moral leadership on critical issues such as climate change, economic inequality, and immigration challenge us to build a better future for our children.” Today’s speech marks the first address by a Pope to a joint session of Congress. Congressman Ashford was honored to welcome Father Tom Fangman of Sacred Heart Catholic Church in North Omaha as his guest on this historic occasion. Following the Pope’s remarks, Congressman Ashford will participate in a video Q&A with high school and college students at Creighton University in Omaha.
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) announced today that he signed on to a letter to the Speaker of the House urging him to keep the House in session every day until a deal is reached to prevent another government shutdown. “Congress has a responsibility to work around the clock to ensure we can pass critical funding legislation,” said Ashford. “Veterans, working families, and our local economy can’t afford another shutdown. Sometimes, people have to work overtime to ensure they get the job done. Congress should be no exception.” Seventy nine Members of Congress joined the letter, dated September 17. As of today, Congress has more recess days scheduled than working days before a potential shutdown. Congress must allocate funding by September 30 or face a shutdown on October 1. The text of the letter is below: Dear Speaker Boehner, We write you today to express our deep concern regarding the looming government shutdown which will occur on October 1st should Congress fail to reach a bipartisan consensus to fund the government. As of right now, there are just six legislative days scheduled before the end of the month. The American people deserve to know that their elected representatives are working around the clock to avoid another self-inflicted Washington wound on our national and local economies. As the Speaker of the House, you have the power to change the legislative calendar. We strongly urge you to keep the House of Representatives in session every day from now until we reach a deal. We already know the impact that a shutdown will have on our economy because it happened just two years ago. According to Standard & Poors, the 16 day government shutdown of 2013 cost the U.S. economy $24 billion and reduced 4th quarter GDP growth by 0.6%. We simply cannot allow this failure to happen again. As Representatives, each of us has an obligation to the American people—the working families, seniors, veterans and others we have the privilege of serving. Now is the time to reject partisan gridlock and work together toward a common sense solution for the American people. With the clock ticking, we can't afford to waste a moment. As Speaker, you have the power to keep Congress in session. We urge you to exercise that authority before it's too late.
09.08.2015	Omaha, NE – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced his opposition to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) negotiated by the P5+1 and Iran, which is currently under review by Congress, according to the Iran Nuclear Review Act of 2015. Congressman Ashford issued the following statement: I will vote not to approve the nuclear deal with Iran. During my time in Congress, I have listened to my constituents regarding this issue and traveled twice to the Middle East. I have conferred with leaders and experts at home and abroad. There is great concern about a nuclear Iran, and I share this concern. However, there is a strong conviction that we must address Iran’s destabilizing activities in the Middle East in order to achieve stability in the region. There is no question that Iran is a state sponsor of terrorism throughout the Middle East. It has supported the training and arming of extremist groups and governments that are dedicated to the destruction of Israel and harming the United States and its citizens. I cannot vote to approve this deal that will provide further financial means to these ends. It would further destabilize the region, which is already engulfed in strife, and undermines our national security and that of our allies. I reject the idea that the alternative to this nuclear agreement is war. We must redouble our efforts and work towards a comprehensive plan in the region that includes addressing Iran’s nuclear capacity as well as reinforcing our historic and critical support of Israel and continuing to build on our alliances with moderate Arab states. Ensuring that Iran does not achieve its goal of acquiring a nuclear weapon is a critical goal, but it cannot be decoupled from the broader problems facing the region. It is for these reasons that I cannot support this deal and will vote to disapprove the agreement.
09.04.2015	OMAHA – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-2) lauded a second grant announcement made by the National Science Foundation (NSF) indicating the disbursement of an additional monetary award to the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO). “The second grant award to UNO now re-emphasizes the prominence of this institution, “said Ashford. “With announced NSF grant funding now totaling over half-a- million dollars, it’s fair to say that UNO is a nationally recognized leader in pioneering new fields of scientific research. Bioinformatics research is indispensable in the analysis of biological material and will aid medical researchers in their work discovering new cures for disease.” Funding will support the project “RCN-UBE: Network for Integrating Bioinformatics into Life Sciences Education (NIBLSE)," and is under the direction of Mark Pauley. The research project aims to integrate bioinformatics into standard undergraduate curriculum nationally. The field of bioinformatics borrows techniques from computer science to store, manage, and analyze large data sets for the study of biology. The award will be disbursed starting September 15, 2015, and totals $499,937.00
09.02.2015	OMAHA – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-2) issued the following statement in regards to a grant made by the National Science Foundation (NSF) to the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO): “I am thrilled that the National Science Foundation chose UNO as a major recipient of grant funding. UNO is an excellent institution that provides quality education to students in Omaha. NSF grant funding will provide necessary resources for UNO’s research on data analysis. As Nebraska’s premier metropolitan public university, a focus on the information technology sector is a natural fit. America’s economy in the 21 century will be heavily reliant on innovation in the tech sector, and UNO is proving to be an integral contributor to this effort.” Funding will support the project “XPS: EXPL: FP: Collaborative Research: SPANDAN: Scalable Parallel Algorithms for Network Dynamics Analysis.” Project SPANDAN seeks to establish a framework to track changes in large data networks. UNO’s Dr. Sanjukta Bhowmick says medical experts could use it to study an outbreak; investigators could use it to study the changing online behavior of criminals; advertisers could better track changes in social network users’ shopping habits. The award will be disbursed starting September 1, 2015, and totals $146,528.00. -END-
08.31.2015	OMAHA – During the final week of Congress’ August recess, Rep. Brad Ashford will continue to focus on growing Nebraska’s economy by seeking out a variety of viewpoints in the coming days with a series of roundtable discussions and hands-on meetings with Nebraska businesses. Congressman Ashford’s continued focus on growing Nebraska’s economy comes as he pushes for bipartisan solutions to end the Congress’ never-ending gridlock over reopening the Export-Import Bank and long-term transportation funding. “Last year my district—with the help of the Export-Import Bank— exported over $60 million of Nebraska-manufactured goods all over the world, including China and Mexico,” said Rep. Ashford. “The Export-Import Bank does not cost American taxpayers money; instead it helps to reduce the deficit.” “At the same time Congress must quit patching the nation’s Highway Trust Fund which is running on fumes. While we need a fully funded, six-year Highway Trust Fund, we recently had to settle for a 90-day extension. This is irresponsible and sets out a nationwide and Nebraska-wide danger sign targeting roads, bridges and other infrastructure. Beyond safety, investing in our infrastructure creates jobs for today and long-term economic growth.” Ashford will hold roundtable discussions with business and community leaders on transportation funding, job training, technology and start-up companies and small businesses. Specific dates, times and locations of these events will be announced over the next several days.
08.24.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-2) is pleased to report that eligible small businesses in Nebraska will soon be able to apply for funds under a federal-state program aimed at increasing exports with the potential of furthering job creation. “This is an investment. In 2013, 62,000 jobs were supported by Nebraska goods exports,” said Rep. Ashford. “Jobs supported by exports pay up to an estimated 18 percent above the national average.” The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) announced today that the State of Nebraska will receive $300,570 from the SBA’s State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) Program. That amount will likely be boosted by a 25 percent match from the State, bringing the total amount available to approximately $375,000. The funds will provide financial assistance to small businesses from October 2015 through September 2016.Nebraska businesses wishing to participate in the STEP Program should contact the Nebraska Department of Economic Development’s Office of International Trade and Investment. The State of Nebraska will use STEP award funds to back export services including participation in the International Market Access Grant Program, ExporTech training, and direct market research to help identify potential international markets. The awards were determined using a competitive process, as required by the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010 and the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015.
08.06.2015	OMAHA – Do you have questions about Social Security, the IRS, veterans or immigration problems? If the federal bureaucracy has you overwhelmed or wrapped in red tape, we want to know. And now we’re coming to you! Congressman Brad Ashford is pleased to announce the kick-off of mobile office hours. Friday, August 7th from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. One World “Back to School Bash.” Livestock Exchange Campus 4920 S 30th St, Omaha Sunday, August 9th from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. BaconFest Omaha Salvation Army Kroc Center 2825 Y St, Omaha And we’re not stopping there. For updates, including future locations, please check our website at ashford.house.gov, Facebook page at www.facebook.com/repbradashford and Twitter at twitter.com/RepBradAshford. # # #
08.03.2015	Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) released the following statement in regard to today’s Environmental Protection Agency carbon rule: “There is no doubt that climate change is a real, man-made environmental problem. However, we must ensure a smooth transition towards cleaner fuel sources. I have real concerns that this new plan will adversely impact consumer prices and threaten access to electricity especially for those Nebraskans who can least afford it, low income families working hard to make ends meet." “America needs an all-of-the-above energy strategy, which will grow our economy, create good-paying jobs and put us on a path to energy independence. Moving forward, we must come together and work to responsibly incentivize more energy conservation and renewable energy production.”
07.31.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) today announced his nomination of four local museums for the 2016 Medal of Museum and Library Services, presented by the Institute of Museum and Library Services. Nominated institutions include Joslyn Art Museum, The Bemis Center for Contemporary Arts, The Durham Western Heritage Museum, and El Museo Latino. “Omaha’s world-class museums form the cornerstone of our city’s burgeoning arts community,” said Congressman Ashford. “Each institution nominated has demonstrated its commitment to community engagement and education. As a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, I am proud to nominate Omaha’s premier institutions for this prestigious award.” The medal is the nation’s highest honor for outstanding public service by museums and libraries, and is awarded to institutions which demonstrate a commitment to public service through innovative and engaging programs. Winners will receive a monetary award and be recognized at a national ceremony in Washington, D.C. In addition, the institutions will host a two-day visit from StoryCorps to record testimony from local residents regarding their positive experiences. Winners will be announced in April of 2016.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON - Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) is proud to announce that he has added his name as a cosponsor of bipartisan legislation which would help Nebraska’s working families save for quality child care. Through key changes regarding flexible spending accounts (FSAs), the Child and Dependent Care FSA Enhancement Act (H.R. 1720) would provide every American with the means necessary to acquire quality care. “With the cost of quality child care ever increasing, this legislation allows families to better plan and save for the future, giving them both economic security and added peace of mind,” said Rep. Ashford. “For our economy to grow, working families must have the necessary tools to meet their needs.” Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) introduced the legislation which increases the amount of pre-tax dollars families can put into child care and dependent care FSAs from $5,000 to $7,500 and will index the amount to inflation in order to keep up with those rising costs. H.R. 1720 is cosponsored by five Republicans and four Democrats.
07.24.2015	Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposal to carve-out nine billion gallons of ethanol from the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program, in 2015 and 2016: “I will continue to work with members of both parties to fight any attempt by the EPA that would slash the Renewable Fuel Standard program. These severe cuts would seriously harm Nebraska’s growing economy, along with harming the environment and damaging national security,” said Ashford. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am well aware of the strategic importance of reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Home-grown fuel doubles as an economic engine and a defender of freedom.”
07.15.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) announced today he will introduce “The Kerrie Orozco Act." The Kerrie Orozco Act would extend the same immigration-related assistance currently provided to the families of military personnel killed in the line of duty to first responders. Currently, spouses of military personnel who are killed in the line of duty may be able to apply for expedited citizenship. “I am proud and honored to bring forth this bill which would provide much needed stability to the family of Kerrie Orozco and all other families who find themselves in a similar tragic situation,” said Rep. Ashford. “Officer Orozco gave her life defending the citizens of Omaha.” “Everyone who wears a uniform, protecting and securing us at home and abroad, deserves our nation’s gratitude and compassion,” said Ashford. “When Kerrie’s husband, Hector, came to me seeking help for their children, it was immediately clear that this is something we could do and should do.” On May 21, 2015, only hours before she was scheduled to begin maternity leave, Omaha Police Officer Kerrie Orozco was shot and killed in the line of duty. She leaves behind her husband Hector, her first born child Olivia Ruth— who was born prematurely Feb. 17—and Hector’s two children, 8-year-old Natalia and six-year-old Santiago. Born and raised in extreme poverty in Mexico, in 1999 at the age of 17, Hector left his home and—by himself—entered the United States, looking for work and an opportunity to change his life. He’s been employed in Omaha since 2003 at an Omaha lawn care company where he is now a foreman. The couple was married in Omaha in 2011. In 2012 Hector, who was the victim of an assault in 2009, received a U-Visa which is granted to victims of certain categories of crimes. On June 25, 2015 Hector applied for Legal Permanent Residency (LPR) — commonly known as a “green card”— which is generally approved in one year or less, followed by a five year wait for citizenship. Under The Kerrie Orozco Act, Hector would be immediately eligible to apply for citizenship, once he receives his LPR, because Kerrie died in the line of duty. Expedited citizenship protocol for Hector would bring stability to his family far sooner than if this bill were not enacted. Hector Orozco issued the following statement regarding the bill: “First, I want to take the opportunity to once again express my gratitude to the community for your outpouring of support during this incredibly difficult time. Little Olivia is healthy and growing, but I continue to be heartbroken that her mother is not here with Natalia, Santiago, and I.” “I came to Congressman Ashford and I support his bill because it will not only bring stability to my children but to the families and children of other first responders throughout the country who put themselves in harm’s way every day. The sacrifice they make is on par with those serving our country in the military. My children and I know this sacrifice all too well.” “Kerrie and I loved each other. We shared a love for this community and a love for this country. As everyone now knows, my wife Kerrie was the kind of person who loved to help other people and who wanted to make her community a better place to live. She lived that value every day and died for it. There is no better way to honor her legacy and support her family than through the passage of this bill.” Please respect the family’s privacy and make all additional inquiries to the Hector’s attorney, Kristin Fearnow. She can be reached at 402-884-7044.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) will vote today to prevent the Confederate Flag from being sold or displayed in national parks. The Calvert Amendment would undo other legislation aimed at preventing the use of the Confederate Flag to decorate graves on public lands, and prohibiting the National Parks Service from doing business with gift shops that sell Confederate Flags. “The Confederate flag is a symbol of slavery, hatred, and violence. It is no coincidence that the KKK and Neo-Nazi organizations use this flag as symbols of their movement. It is utterly inappropriate for the federal government to sell or display these flags on our national public lands,” said Ashford. “In the wake of the tragic murders in Charleston, and the recent burning of black churches in the south, it is necessary for Congress to signal its opposition to the flag to honor the memory of those killed, and continue our healing as a nation,” Ashford said. Since the murders in Charleston, several states, including South Carolina, have decided to remove Confederate Flags and other symbolism from public property.
07.02.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) announced today that a recent decision by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) leaving many veterans without adult day care and other in-home services is being addressed at the highest level and those at the greatest risk will continue to receive assistance. “After two days of discussions with the VA I’ve been informed that veterans receiving adult day care and other similar services will have their individual circumstances reviewed on a case-by-case basis,” said Rep. Ashford. “Those veterans deemed the most vulnerable will continue to receive services.” According to Rep. Ashford the VA is examining the issue nationwide. In Nebraska alone 1,900 veterans who have been receiving unskilled, home health services are impacted. Facing a July 31 deadline Rep. Ashford said the VA is taking the urgent steps needed to guarantee that those who currently receive critical services will continue to have their costs covered. “We will continue to work with the VA to address this issue as much more work remains to be done,” said Rep. Ashford.
07.01.2015	WASHINGTON - Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) issued the following statement regarding the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announcement that the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) will serve as a co-lead institution for the new National Ebola Training and Education Center. “Congratulations to UNMC for being named a National Ebola Training and Education Center. This designation exemplifies the diligent work and dedication UNMC has in fighting deadly infectious diseases,” said Rep. Ashford. “Nebraska Medicine’s continued excellence and leadership in the fight against Ebola make it an ideal site for this important public health program. For ten years, UNMC has prepared for the outbreak of diseases, such as Ebola, through the construction of its biocontainment unit, and rise to prominence in treating patients infected with Ebola during last year’s outbreak. The NETEC will allow UNMC to continue pioneering the study and containment of infectious disease, help establish best practices for combating infectious diseases nationwide, and further solidify Nebraska as a leader in research and innovation.” This announcement underscores the value of the world-class facilities and personnel at UNMC, as only three hospitals were named as co-lead institutions. The other two institutions are Emory University in Georgia, and New York Bellevue Hospital.
07.01.2015	Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) is pleased to announce that Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05) will join Rep. Ashford for a series of events in Omaha Wednesday, July 1. First elected to Congress in 1981 Rep. Hoyer, the second-ranking member of the House Democratic Leadership, is a widely respected voice on national and international affairs. A tireless fighter for job creation and strengthening the economy, Rep. Hoyer is currently calling for bipartisan action to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) and for a bipartisan budget agreement that will end draconian budget cuts jeopardizing both the country’s infrastructure and economic opportunity for American families. During his visit to the 2nd Congressional District, he and Rep. Ashford are scheduled to meet with Todd Atkinson, Executive Vice President of Valmont Industries, one of the world’s leading providers of innovative agricultural and infrastructure equipment and a key supporter of the Ex-Im Bank. Reps. Ashford and Hoyer will also host a roundtable discussion on job training skills. The event will be hosted at Metropolitan Community College which is currently expanding its vocational education programming and facilities. Among the invitees are: Omaha City Council President Ben Gray, Councilman Garry Gernandt, Douglas County Commissioner Chris Rodgers, County Treasurer John Ewing, State Senator Tanya Cook, and Omaha School Board members Marc Snowe and Yolanda Williams.
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON –Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) issued the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court’s historic ruling on same-sex marriage in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges: “I applaud the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark ruling which makes clear that discrimination against anyone based on their sexual orientation has no place in America. Same-sex marriage bans impose countless burdens and indignities on gay and lesbian couples and their children and serve no legitimate governmental objective. Today the Court moved to guarantee equal protection under the law, as our Constitution promises, by striking down same-sex marriage bans throughout the country.�? “This decision does not ask individuals to abandon their principles on the issue, but rather, to accept that this country is overwhelmingly diverse, and we must embrace those who might not hold our same beliefs. The many differences of individuals are what make this a great nation. As we celebrate this decision I commit to continue working for equality for all Nebraskans in the future.�? Congressman Ashford is also a cosponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, legislation that ensures that legally-married, same-sex couples are treated equally under federal law. Currently, the legislation is supported by a bipartisan group of 143 members in the House of Representatives.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Following today’s Supreme Court ruling regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Rep Brad Ashford (NE-02) stands by his pledge to fight for a system that guarantees millions of Americans won’t lose their coverage. "Now that the courts have fully litigated the Affordable Care Act, it's time for us to work together on a serious, bipartisan fix that eliminates the employer mandate and reins in the growth of insurance premiums,” said Rep. Ashford. Rep. Ashford would not have voted for the ACA because it was not passed in a bipartisan manner. However, Rep. Ashford does not favor a full repeal of ACA. The ACA now provides healthcare for millions of previously uninsured Americans, including over 32,000 Nebraskans in 2015 alone. While it does allow more people to access health care, it does not adequately address rising health care costs. “As we move forward, it is important to balance new efforts that expand and improve access to health services, eliminate or reform those elements of the law which are not working, and improve the pieces in place that are helping American families,” said Rep. Ashford. “I am committed on working to ensure that changes to our health care system are made in a careful, balanced, and fair way that focuses on patients’ needs.” At a time when the economy is recovering businesses should not be forced to choose between absorbing new costs or passing them on to their workers and customers. Rep. Ashford is a cosponsor of H.R. 30, Save American Workers Act of 2015. This bill would amend the definition of a full-time employee under the ACA by restoring the work week from 30 hours per week to 40 hours per week.
06.22.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) released the following statement regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) study on the future of the VA hospital in Omaha. “This study clears the way for the VA to examine options such as a renovated Creighton University Medical Center or a new clinic through the University of Nebraska Medical Center,” said Rep. Ashford. “The last thing we want is to sit on a waiting list for a new hospital, as has been the case for some 20 years. It’s time to come up with something new, innovative and creative.” Rep. Ashford is confident that current discussions will turn Omaha into a “center of excellence” and a national model for veterans care, including top flight mental health treatment and women’s health care. Rep. Ashford reiterated his earlier statements that Omaha’s funding is not in jeopardy of going to Denver, where the VA’s facility is suffering massive problems. “Our money is not going to Denver,” said Ashford. “That is absolutely not going to happen.” The VA’s final report regarding funding and implementation is expected later this summer.
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) supported bipartisan legislation that would provide critical funding for Veterans Treatment Courts, and federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. Rep. Ashford supported passage of H.R.2578, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016. Included in this bill is $10 million in critical funding for Veterans Treatments Courts, which will be used by the Department of Justice – in conjunction with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) – to provide grants for states and localities for court start-up and training costs. These courts are designed to provide veterans who may be suffering from mental health or substance abuse disorders with management for their ailments through a combination of treatment and personal responsibility. They are collaboration among the courts, drug treatment providers, VA, and related veteran support groups. “We must ensure that our brave men and women in uniform are provided every opportunity to succeed when they return to civilian life,” said Rep. Ashford. “The funding included in this bill will help ensure that the appropriate treatment services are provided to former service members – a community which at times may face unique challenges.” This annual appropriations bill provides funding for the Departments of Commerce, Justice (including the FBI and Drug Enforcement Agency), and the country’s science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), and the National Science Foundation (NSF). Included in the bill was funding for local law enforcement agencies for community policing,
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, is applauding today’s Senate passage of the USA Freedom Act which protects both the security and civil liberties of Americans. Ashford says the bipartisan bill, which he voted for and passed the House last month, allows the National Security Agency (NSA) access to phone records provided the NSA obtains a federal court order. “This is a great example of both parties coming together to solve long-standing problems,” said Rep. Ashford who notes that this issue has lingered for six years. According to Rep. Ashford, the NSA needs access to certain records in order to intercept communications between terrorists as they contact each other overseas or from time-to-time as they contact individuals in the United States. “That data is critical to our intelligence efforts,” said Rep. Ashford who also says the reforms in the USA Freedom Act are thoughtful and responsible. The Senate voted 67-32 to pass the USA Freedom Act, which now goes to the President.
05.29.2015	Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) is proud to announce the winners of the first annual “Nebraska 2nd District Congressional Scholarship.” Each of the four high school students will receive scholarships in the amount of $2,500 for use during the upcoming academic year. The winners were judged on their essays, received by the Holland Children’s Movement, articulating how they will contribute to the American dream. Here are the winners and portions of their successful essays: Katelyn Andersen, of Millard North, plans to become a physical therapist and ultimately work with veterans. “I have gone through numerous hardships….Thanks to others taking their time to slow down and listen and work with me, I started to believe in myself again.” Logan Cunningham, of Bellevue East, plans to become a teacher, and member of Future Educators of America. “My American Dream will be to create a classroom environment that is so inundated with positive teaching practices that classroom failure will no longer be an option.” Amy Kohlscheen, of Westside, plans on obtaining a degree in business. “Become thankful for what we have; step away from the computer and cell phones, stop looking down at a screen and look above to the wonderful world around.” Eros Mejia-Hernandez, of Creighton Prep, plans on studying economics, finance and Spanish and owning his own business: “I believe by giving everyone the opportunity to prosper economically and keep peace with toleration, we can continue allowing the principles of our founding fathers to ring forever.” The scholarships are funded by Rep. Ashford who has dedicated 10 percent of his Congressional salary to the program.
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) joined Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13) in introducing the Healthy School Meals Flexibility Act. This bipartisan, bicameral bill would help ensure that school districts across the country have greater flexibility in meal preparation for students, as they relate to the USDA’s sodium and whole grain requirements. “Everyone agrees that better-quality food, including whole grains, fruits, and vegetables will make our children healthier thereby helping to increase a child’s school performance,” said Rep. Ashford. “However, some of these new guidelines are unrealistic and schools are struggling to implement these burdensome new regulations while attempting to meet budgetary requirements. Schools need the flexibility to meet local needs while balancing the need to provide healthy, nutritious lunches.” The Healthy School Meals Flexibility Act would do two simple things aimed at providing schools the flexibility they need to responsibly provide healthy meals to students: Since 2012, at least half of all grains offered with school meals have been whole-grain rich. In 2014, USDA required that 100 percent of all grains be whole-grain rich. In order to ensure that schools are able to purchase a wide variety of grain products, the bill would keep the lower federal requirement that 50 percent of the grains offered during school lunch be whole grain. Schools have had difficulty in finding specialty whole-grain products that meet the higher standard and will also be appealing to students, leading to increased costs and waste. The bill would also prevent further reductions in sodium requirements in school meals below current levels, which were set in 2014. Presently, schools have already made significant progress in sodium reductions. Furthermore, school nutritionists have raised concerns that additional reductions are unnecessary, counterproductive, and would create further difficulties in obtaining food products that meet heightened standards. The bill is backed by the School Nutrition Association and the National School Board Association.
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Putting the country’s security first and foremost Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today voted in favor of a bipartisan bill authorizing $515 billion in national defense spending. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 passed the House 269-151, with the support of 41 Democrats. This comprehensive legislation establishes Department of Defense (DOD) policy and funding. During debate on the NDAA, Rep. Ashford was instrumental in ensuring key U.S. STRATCOM programs including nuclear command and control, space, cyber and missile defense were protected. Unfortunately, the GOP majority removed language encouraging the DOD to allow DREAMers to serve in the military. Rep. Ashford voted to keep the DREAMER language in the legislation. “It is truly disappointing that patriotic immigrants who want to serve and defend our country will not be afforded that opportunity,” said Rep. Ashford. The bill also authorizes $89.2 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding, $38.3 billion more than the President had requested.
05.07.2015	OMAHA – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) today announced that Right at Home will receive the President’s “E” Award at a ceremony at the White House on May 18. The “E” Awards are the highest recognition any U.S. entity can receive for making a significant contribution to the expansion of U.S. exports. “The President’s award recognizes the hard work of Right at Home in increasing U.S. exports, and honors its critical role in job creation for constituents in this district and efforts to help grow our local economy,” said Rep. Ashford. “Congratulations to Right at Home for its export achievement, which helps the local community, Nebraska and the nation remain competitive in the global marketplace. It is with high quality trade agreements that give companies like Right at Home access to the 96 percent of customers outside of the United States, giving our country a competitive edge around the world.” Right at Home, a leading in-home senior care franchise with more than 450 locations on five continents, continues to take its innovative, recession-resistant and economy-boosting model to growing international markets. The brand has seen an explosion of growth outside the U.S., concluding 2014 with 55 international operating offices in nine countries. With ongoing success in the U.S. and abroad, Right at Home aims to cultivate health innovation as the global need for in-home senior care continues to grow. “Right at Home International’s results this past year, including successes in North America, South America, Europe and Asia, all validate the need for a strong in-home care presence,” said Right at Home executive chair and founder Allen Hager. “Our expansion moving forward will help us access more market capabilities, and our customers and franchisees will reap the benefits of having attentive and dedicated in-home caregivers who understand the unique needs of the area.” President Kennedy revived the World War II “E” symbol of excellence to honor and provide recognition to America's exporters; the “E” Award Program was established in December 1961. In addition to Right at Home, President Obama will honor 44 other U.S. companies with the President’s “E” Award next month. U.S. exports of goods and services hit an all-time record of $2.34 trillion in 2014, accounting for 13.4 percent of the U.S. GDP, compared to 7.5 percent 30 years ago. Nationally, jobs supported by exports reached more than 11.7 million last year. Companies are nominated for the “E” Awards through the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service office network, located within the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration (ITA). Four years of successive export growth and an applicant’s demonstration of an innovative international marketing plan that led to the increase in exports is a significant factor in selecting winners. For more information about the benefits of exporting and the “E” Award, visit export.gov.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, supports bipartisan legislation which seeks to improve national security and examine opportunities for qualified young immigrants to serve lawfully in our Nation’s armed forces. Last night during a marathon meeting amending the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Rep. Ashford confirmed his commitment to national security preparedness. He also supported two nonbinding measures which would encourage the Secretary of Defense to allow individuals in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program to serve in the armed forces while, at the same time, evaluating that impact on the military. “This is an important first step towards allowing patriotic immigrants the opportunity to serve and defend the country they love,” said Rep. Ashford. “Those who want to put on the uniform and protect our country should be afforded the opportunity to do so.” According to a 2009 study, “Ready, Willing, and Unable to Serve,” 75 percent of young people between the ages of 17 and 24 are unqualified to serve in the military. Expanding the eligibility pool for new recruits is critical to national security readiness.
04.24.2015	Omaha, NE. – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) this week put his support behind two bipartisan plans which would enable private businesses to voluntarily share information regarding cyber threats—with one another and the federal government— while protecting personal information. “We’re in cyber-wars with several countries,” said Rep. Ashford, a member of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “Safeguarding our consumers and businesses from these nameless, faceless cyber-crooks is a must.” Recent cyber-attacks on Sony Pictures Entertainment, Target stores and health insurer Anthem have heightened the need for legislation and both the House and Senate have responded. This week H.R. 1560, Protecting Cyber Networks Act, passed the House by a vote of 307 to 116 while H.R. 1731, National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act, passed 355 to 63. The Senate Intelligence Committee backed similar efforts last summer. Under the measures approved by the House, private sector firms would be granted certain legal liability protections when sharing data with federal agencies. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) would be allowed to share the cyber threat information it gathers with the private sector. Private firms would be generally required to remove all personally identifiable information, while DHS would do a second scrubbing removing any personal information which might remain. Both measures provide no authority for the government to conduct surveillance on individuals.
04.24.2015	OMAHA, NE. – Massive cuts to the proposed Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) budget, cuts that strike at the heart of veterans’ health care, are “unacceptable and dangerous,” Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02) said today. The cuts total $1.4 billion and, along with delays in critical medical research, would leave an estimated 70,000 veterans unable to receive the VA care they desperately rely upon. “It’s un-American to turn our backs on the men and women who risked life and limb keeping us safe and secure,” said Rep. Ashford a member of the House Armed Services Committee. Following a series of national news incidents the VA has pushed to correct unsafe and sometimes deadly wait-times. The turnaround finds 97 percent of appointments are now completed within 30 days. Looking to stop the 2016 budget slashing orchestrated by the Republican controlled House Appropriations Subcommittee, VA Secretary Bob McDonald told a Senate Committee this week that plans to slash President Obama’s proposed funding jeopardize the VA’s timely changes. Rep. Ashford, who has championed veteran’s issues, will fight the proposed cuts while continuing his efforts to make Omaha a nationwide model for veteran’s health care.
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON – U. S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) is optimistic that bipartisan efforts to replace the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) aging Omaha hospital are not only moving forward but far faster than once expected. In addition Rep. Ashford is hopeful that current discussions will turn Omaha into a “center of excellence” and a national model for veterans care, including top flight mental health treatment and women’s health care. On Tuesday Rob Nabors, chief of staff for the VA , met in Omaha with officials from the University of Nebraska and Creighton medical centers to explore several potential options. The meeting, arranged by Rep. Ashford and Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01), follows an earlier decision to move hospital construction in Omaha from 28th to 10th on the VA’s priority list. “We appreciate being moved up on the list, but more needs to be done and it needs to be done now,” said Rep. Ashford. Among the plans under consideration is a proposal to build a new VA outpatient clinic, away from the existing hospital. It would be funded through a public-private partnership where local businesses would invest the money needed to construct a clinic, which would be leased back to the VA. Also on the table is discussion of renovating an existing hospital. The VA has commissioned a study examining all the options. That study should be completed by the end of May and presented to Nebraska and Western Iowa veterans, along with other members of the public, for their suggestions. It’s expected that a final plan will be ready for implementation at the end of summer.
04.17.2015	April 17, 2015- From the moment I was sworn in on January 6th I found out, firsthand, that Washington is indeed the mess we all think it is. That’s the bad news. The good news is, while it won’t happen overnight, it’s fixable. As we marked our first 100 days in office April 15th, we’ve managed to bring some Nebraska common sense to the fight for a better and brighter future, a more inclusive society where we unleash the vitality of American business to create better paying jobs. You may have heard that some folks in Washington were upset I won’t lock myself in a room and spend the day dialing for dollars—raising money for the next election instead of attending committee hearings and meeting with constituents, you know, the job you hired me to do. The sad part is that made news because, apparently, I’m the exception and not the rule. At the same time I’ve found plenty of friends, on all sides, willing to help move the country forward. During my 16 years in the Nebraska Legislature, where lawmakers aren’t tied to one party or the other, plenty gets done. We’ve brought that same independence to Washington. As a member of two bipartisan House groups that are 75 Members strong—No Labels and United Solutions—75 percent of the bills we’ve co-sponsored have Democrat and Republican support. One of those bills, the Hire More Heroes Act—finding jobs for veterans, has already passed the House. Just this week, I signed onto a bipartisan measure which would improve and expand government’s response to the unique needs of mentally ill criminal offenders, including some veterans, while also reducing recidivism. This legislation builds upon the prison reform work we did in the Nebraska Legislature to reduce the prison population while first and foremost keeping the public secure. This funding gets offenders the mental health treatment they need. We’re also proud to tell you that our VA hospital construction project has jumped from 28th to 10th on the Department of Veterans Affairs priority list. That’s a good start but I’m far from satisfied. So while we wait to rebuild or refurbish the VA hospital we’re working to provide more immediate care and alternatives for the men and women who served this country. They deserve nothing less than a healthcare system which works as hard for them as they worked protecting us. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee I recently had the honor of visiting our troops overseas. Along with some of my Democratic and Republican friends we had the opportunity to examine the international efforts underway to defeat and destroy extremists such as ISIS. This experience demonstrated the importance of fully and adequately funding the Defense Department to ensure our armed forces can accomplish their mission safely and successfully. That is why I support efforts to break defense sequestration. These unnecessary, across-the-board cuts would imperil our national defense strategy and endanger American lives. Back home, I’m focused on creating jobs for Nebraskans. U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and I recently sat down with Omaha area farmers and union leaders to discuss the need to open more markets to Nebraska exports. Every $1 billion in local exports adds up to 7,000 new, high wage jobs, which pay on average 18 percent more than non-export jobs. Establishing responsible trade agreements that both protect jobs at home and open markets for Nebraska-made goods abroad are critical to our future economic growth. Congress is working on legislation that would set the direction for a robust trade agenda. I look forward to working on fair, bipartisan efforts that will help the United States deliver strong, high-standard trade deals, boosting American exports and creating new economic opportunities for our workers, manufacturers, farmers, ranchers and entrepreneurs. I was proud to vote for bipartisan legislation that would provide more certainty to both Medicare beneficiaries and their doctors, while reauthorizing the critical Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). It was reassuring to see both parties come together and meaningfully enact reforms that have plagued Medicare for over a decade. When I asked for your vote last year I promised to end the business-as-usual approach to politics, you know saying one thing and doing another. I vowed to fight Congressional perks and in my first few days in office I’ve cut my pay 10 percent—that 10 percent is going to fund scholarships for Nebraska students. I promised I’d never vote to shut down the government. When some wanted to shut down the Department of Homeland Security, I voted to keep it open—and it stayed open. It’s my honor to get up in the morning knowing I get to go to Washington to make Nebraska’s 2nd Congressional District a better place to live. I learned in the Nebraska Legislature that no bills are perfect. So when we can get 70 percent of what we want, I’m voting for it. We may not always completely agree but you’ll always have a say, because working together we’ll gets things done. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON –U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today signed onto a bipartisan measure that would improve and expand government’s response to the unique needs of mentally ill offenders, including some veterans, while also reducing recidivism. “This is why I came to Washington, to work on significant legislation that builds upon the work we did in the Nebraska Legislature to protect our citizens and get offenders the mental health treatment they need,” said Rep. Brad Ashford. “Nebraska needs this grant funding to help them implement prison reform successfully and safely.” The Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act of 2015 would provide $30 million (each fiscal year from 2016-2020) in grants to states, local governments and law enforcement agencies to help train those officials who come in contact with mentally ill offenders. The aim is to improve the ability of these entities to properly identify and address the unique needs of the mentally ill. It also provides that a portion of the funding be available for “qualified veterans.” The bill addresses the following findings:  Roughly two million people with serious mental illnesses come into contact with the criminal justice system. They do so at a rate three to six times higher than the general population.  Adults with mental illnesses cycle through jail more often and stay longer than those without.  Approximately 75 percent of inmates with serious mental illnesses have co-occurring substance abuse issues and are more likely to have serious physical health needs. The U.S. Senate is considering similar legislation.
04.14.2015	Washington D.C.- ThanksUSA Launches 10th Annual Scholarship Season for Military Families. Applications Open to Children and Spouses of U.S. Troops ThanksUSA, the national non-profit organization dedicated to thanking America’s troops through the gift of education, today announced that children and spouses of America’s armed forces are invited to apply for ThanksUSA’s post-secondary education scholarships beginning April 1, 2015. Applications will be accepted through May 15, 2015, online at http://www.ThanksUSA.org. “Ten years after ThanksUSA was launched, we remain committed to helping military families flourish and advance their dreams through education,” said ThanksUSA CEO and Chairman Bob Okun. “It’s how we can offer our collective gratitude as a nation for all that our servicemen and women and their families do for us.” ThanksUSA provides need-based scholarships to the children and spouses of military personnel across all the armed forces, the National Guard and Reserves, giving special consideration to families of the fallen and wounded. Over the past decade, the charity has raised more than $10 million, resulting in nearly 3,400 scholarships. Up to 500 students are expected to receive awards this season, totaling $1.5 million. “We believe 2015 applications will exceed 2,000 again this year, a strong indication of military families’ persistent need for assistance,” said Okun. “Our objective is to raise awareness of the support our military families need on the education front while they sacrifice daily on the front lines through deployments, family separations, and transfers across the country and overseas. Through ThanksUSA, those who lack the resources can pursue their goals.” ThanksUSA’s awards are made possible by donations and several campaigns and events throughout the year: ThanksUSA Treasure Hunt – A free, fully interactive online digital trivia and puzzle game about U.S. history, culture and values, underwritten by the ESA Foundation. Participants are able to make donations through the contest. Jackson Casey Scholarship Fund – Dedicated to the memory of 11-year-old Jackson Casey, grandson of former Chief of Staff of the Army General George W. Casey, the fund provides need-based scholarships to the children of active-duty military primarily from the Washington, D.C. area and Colorado. ThanksUSA has awarded more than 70 scholarships valued at more than $200,000 since the memorial’s inception in 2012. National Spokesperson Stephen Curry – Golden State Warriors guard and two-time NBA All-Star Stephen Curry spearheads awareness efforts for ThanksUSA as the charity’s national spokesperson. His ThanksUSA golf tournament and generous donation of his $25,000 KIA Award for philanthropy have resulted in 56 ThanksUSA scholarships totaling $168,000. Tennis Thanks the Troops – Affiliates and members of the United States Professional Tennis Association (USPTA) organize special tournaments and events to benefit ThanksUSA. Tennis pros Bob and Mike Bryan and Lisa Raymond have previously supported ThanksUSA through memorabilia donations and participation in public service announcements. AthleticDNA – Sports apparel company AthleticDNA has committed to donating a percentage of its sales during designated military holidays to ThanksUSA and provide apparel to participants at USPTA events. Additional support for ThanksUSA’s education fund comes from donors including Altria, Apex, the Blavatnik Family Foundation, Computer Science Corporation, Goldman Sachs Gives, The Honda Foundation, Intelligent Decisions, Health Care Services Corporation, Kaplan University, The Kovner Foundation, Lockheed Martin, Navy Postgraduate School Foundation, No Greater Sacrifice Foundation, Paladin Capital Group, Pershing Square Foundation, RAI Services, Ron Conwey Family Foundation, USA Funds and others. We also receive in-kind support from American Airlines, CSC, Discovery Communications, Edelman, Engage DC, Four Seasons Hotel, Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP, LMO Advertising, National Association of Broadcasters, and others. Children and spouses of America’s armed forces can find applications, eligibility requirements and more information by visiting www.ThanksUSA.org. About ThanksUSA: ThanksUSA is a non-partisan, charitable effort to mobilize Americans of all ages to “thank” the men and women of the United States armed forces. The organization provides college, technical and vocational school scholarships to the children and spouses of military personnel. For more information, visit www.thanksusa.org. ###
03.25.2015	Washington – Today, U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) introduced H.Res.166, legislation which would require the House to consider bills with a mandatory 10-hours of debate on the House floor. The bill would amend the rules of the House by mandating that every bill have no less than 10-hours of debate. This 10-hour clock could be circumvented if two-thirds of House Members vote to do so – working to ensure that only bills with strong support from both parties move through the House faster. “Though this may sound like ‘inside baseball,’ this bill would address a fundamental problem with the status quo,” said Rep. Ashford. “Right now, some of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle are barely allowed any time for their voice – and the voice of their constituents – to be heard on the House floor when we are debating legislation. This is unfair, and this legislation would work to alleviate that. My bill would also work to ensure that more bipartisan legislation be considered. Many of the major bills that have come to the floor over the past several years have been passed with limited bipartisan support – some having received no bipartisan support at all. If whichever party is in power does not want the floor slowed to such a pace, they would need to bring forth bills that contain genuine bipartisan compromises. It is my hope that this simple rule change could help to that end.”
03.23.2015	Washington, D.C.- On March 20th, 2014, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and U.S. Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), the Committee’s Ranking Member, along with 365 other House Members, have released a bipartisan letter to President Obama underscoring the “grave and urgent issues that have arisen” relating to the ongoing nuclear negotiations with Iran. Negotiators face an end of March deadline. "Recently, 366 of my colleagues and I signed a bipartisan letter to the President regarding ongoing negotiations with Iran. Our letter conveyed the sense of Congress that it is imperative that any agreement reached must prevent Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability. Only then can Congress approve legislation providing permanent sanctions relief. I whole-heartedly believe that resolving the nuclear crisis with Iran remains of utmost importance to our nation’s security." The signed letter is available HERE. The text of the letter follows: The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As the deadline for a comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran nears, we write to you to underscore the grave and urgent issues that have arisen in these negotiations. While we hope the Administration is able to achieve a lasting and meaningful agreement, we understand that there are several difficult issues that remain unresolved. No issue will be harder to resolve with the Iranian regime than the status of its uranium enrichment program. This is the key technology Iran would need to develop a nuclear bomb – technology that Iran has been permitted to continue to research and develop under the interim arrangement. Many of us wrote to you a year ago, calling for dismantlement of significant portions of Iran’s nuclear infrastructure, “such that Iran will not be able to develop, build, or acquire a nuclear weapon.” A final comprehensive nuclear agreement must constrain Iran’s nuclear infrastructure so that Iran has no pathway to a bomb, and that agreement must be long-lasting. International inspectors report that Iran has still not revealed its past bomb work, despite its international obligations to do so. Of the 12 sets of questions that the International Atomic Energy Agency has been seeking, Tehran has answered just part of one. Just last week, the IAEA reported that it is still concerned about signs of Iran’s military related activities, including designing a nuclear payload for a missile. Indeed, inspectors had amassed “over a thousand pages” which showed “research, development and testing activities” on technologies needed to develop a nuclear weapon. Last fall, over 350 Members of the House wrote to the Secretary of State expressing deep concerns about this lack of cooperation. The potential military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program should be treated as a fundamental test of Tehran’s intention to uphold the final comprehensive agreement. Unless we have a full understanding of Iran’s past program it will be impossible for the international community to judge Iran’s future breakout time with certainty. Iran’s record of clandestine activity and intransigence prevents any trust in Iran. Indeed, a top State Department negotiator has told Congress that, “deception is part of [Iran’s] DNA.” Even during the period of negotiations, Iran has illicitly procured nuclear technology, which your Administration quickly sanctioned. Additionally, because of the strict inspections regime under the Joint Plan of Action, Tehran was caught testing a more advanced centrifuge that would have helped produce bomb material more quickly. Given Iran’s decades of deception, negotiators must obtain maximum commitments to transparency by Iran. Any inspection and verification regime must allow for short notice access to suspect locations, and verifiable constraints on Iran’s nuclear program must last for decades. Finally, while the negotiations with Iran have focused exclusively on Iran’s nuclear program, it is critical that we also consider Iran’s destabilizing role in the region. Iran is boosting Assad in Syria, supporting sectarian elements in Iraq that undercut hopes for a unified and stable country, and providing assistance to Hezbollah, which continues to threaten Israel. And last month, an Iranian-backed militia displaced the government in Yemen, a key counterterrorism partner. Iran’s Supreme Leader has also called for an expansion of his country’s ballistic missile program, yet another dimension of the potential threat posed by Iran. Iran’s role in fomenting instability in the region—not to mention Iran’s horrendous repression at home—demonstrates the risks of negotiating with a partner we cannot trust. The United States has had a longstanding interest in preventing Iran from achieving a nuclear weapons capability. Over the last twenty years, Congress has passed numerous pieces of legislation imposing sanctions on Iran to prevent that outcome, ultimately forcing Iran into negotiations. Should an agreement with Iran be reached, permanent sanctions relief from congressionally-mandated sanctions would require new legislation. In reviewing such an agreement, Congress must be convinced that its terms foreclose any pathway to a bomb, and only then will Congress be able to consider permanent sanctions relief. Resolving the nuclear crisis with Iran remains of grave importance to our nation’s security. As the Administration continues to negotiate with Iran, we are prepared to evaluate any agreement to determine its long-term impact on the United States and our allies. We remain hopeful that a diplomatic solution preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon may yet be reached, and we want to work with you to assure such a result. ##
03.18.2015	Washington – The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is currently accepting applications from Veterans interested in competing in the 2015 National Veterans Golden Age Games. Applications can be completed online at www.veteransgoldenagegames.va.gov, and will be accepted through May 15. Veterans ages 55 and older who are enrolled for VA care are eligible to participate. The 2015 National Veterans Golden Age Games takes place in Omaha, Nebraska, Aug. 8-12. Nearly 800 athletes are expected to compete in the national multi-event sports and recreational competition for senior Veterans. The event encourages participants to make physical activity a central part of their lives, and supports VA’s comprehensive recreation and rehabilitation therapy programs. Competitive events include air rifle, badminton, bowling, cycling, dominoes, field, golf, horseshoes, nine ball, shuffleboard, swimming, table tennis and track. VA research and clinical experience verify that physical activity is important to maintaining good health, speeding recovery and improving overall quality of life. The games also serve as a way for participants to continue in local senior events in their home communities. VA Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System will host this year’s games. The health care system provides care for more than 55,000 Veterans from 101 counties in Nebraska, western Iowa and portions of Missouri and Kansas. For more information visit www.veteransgoldenagegames.va.gov and follow VA Adaptive Sports on Twitter at @VAAdaptiveSport or on Facebook at www.facebook.com/vaadaptivesports. We encourage all who are eligible to participate. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact our office at (202) 225-4155 and ask to speak with Laura. Good luck to all of the participants!
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today supported a measure in the House of Representatives to provide funding for the Department of Homeland Security through September 30, 2015 – the end of the fiscal year. The measure passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 257-167. With legislation already passed by the U.S. Senate, it now heads to the President’s desk for his veto or signature. “Given that we face serious terror threats here at home, the fact that a large bipartisan group of members came together to get this done is a major victory for the country,” said Congressman Ashford. “It would have been extremely irresponsible for Congress to jeopardize the ability of DHS to do its job, but now we can move past this self-inflicted crisis to do the work of the American people. That work must include a robust debate on comprehensive immigration reform. We’ve seen members in both parties, although they might have a difference of opinions, willing to engage on this issue, and I urge my colleagues to begin this discussion right away.” ###
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) released the following statement on the decision from U.S. District Judge Joseph Bataillon to allow same-sex marriages to proceed in the State of Nebraska. Under the ruling, the state must begin to recognize same-sex marriages on Monday, March 9, 2015. Congressman Ashford said: “Discrimination against anyone based on their sexual orientation has no place in this country. Courts across the country are demanding equal treatment under the law, and today, Nebraska took a major stand against inequality in this country. This decision does not ask individuals to abandon their principles on the issue, but rather, to accept that this country is overwhelmingly diverse, and we must embrace those who might not hold our same beliefs. The many differences of individuals are what make this a great nation, and today’s decision recognizes that same-sex couples deserve equal rights under the law. I applaud this decision and commit to continue working for equality for all Nebraskans in the future.” Congressman Ashford is also a cosponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, legislation that ensures that legally-married, same-sex couples are treated equally under federal law. Currently, the legislation is supported by a bipartisan group of 139 members of Congress in the House of Representatives. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) announced his support of a measure in the House of Representatives to keep the Department of Homeland Security fully operational. The Continuing Resolution (CR) will keep DHS open for three weeks, allowing the House and Senate time to agree on a longer-term funding resolution for the agency. “Shutting down the Department of Homeland Security was never an option in my book,” said Congressman Ashford. “We’re facing serious terror threats here at home and parts of the country are struggling with ongoing winter storms – it would be irresponsible for Congress to force a shutdown. Given that Senate Republicans have offered a significant concession in passing a clean CR, I’d prefer a longer-term funding bill, but without the opportunity to vote on that, the short-term CR is the next best thing. I’m confident we can come to an agreement on a bill over the next three weeks, and I urge my colleagues to set aside their differences so we can work to keep our nation secure.” ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Brad Ashford (NE-02), along with Representatives Gwen Graham (FL-02), Scott Peters (CA-52), and Ami Bera (CA-07), introduced legislation, H.R. 1032, the “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” to withhold the pay of members of Congress should funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) lapse. Currently, funding for DHS will expire on Saturday, February 28th without Congressional action. “All across the country, folks live by the idea that if you don’t do your job, you shouldn’t get paid,” said Representative Ashford. “The same should hold true for members of Congress, and this bill simply codifies that belief. It comes down to accountability to the people we represent, and is meant to encourage members of both parties to end the gridlock and find common ground on this important issue. There are too many credible threats against our nation to let this important agency shut down.” Representative Graham said, “If Congress lets obstructionists shut down the Department of Homeland Security, each member should have their paycheck withheld. There should be an immediate consequence for letting partisan games threaten the security of the American people.” Congressman Peters said, “It is simple– if the hardworking men and women in the Department of Homeland Security will continue to go to work but not receive a paycheck, members of Congress, who have failed to do their job, should not receive a paycheck either.” Congressman Bera said, “If Congress can’t do its job and put the security of the American people before politics, then they certainly shouldn’t get paid during a crisis that they are causing. Shutting down the agency responsible for the safety of the American people- in our airports, at our borders, and all over this country- is the height of irresponsibility. We must stop the finger pointing, start acting like adults, and make Washington work for the people again. That starts with leading by example.” The “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act,” would withhold the pay of members of Congress in an escrow account should funding lapse for DHS. The funds would not be available until funding legislation is signed in to law. ###
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, returned today from a bipartisan Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to visit American troops serving overseas and to discuss military operations. Congressman Ashford traveled with Representatives Joe Wilson (R-SC), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Seth Moulton (D-MA). The eight day trip brought the delegation to the UAE, Kabul, Jordan, Kuwait, and Baghdad. “It was a great honor to meet with the brave men and women serving our country overseas,” said Congressman Ashford. “Our delegation received in-depth briefings from both American military leaders and from our allies. I am more confident than ever that we have the strategy in place to destroy ISIS without putting more American troops on the ground. We are fighting a war with seasoned criminals, and we can’t underestimate their abilities. As we move forward with this mission, we have to prepare, with our international coalition, for the next steps to ensure we don’t repeat old mistakes as the region continues to rebuild. I am grateful for this incredible opportunity to visit our troops, and will use this knowledge as Congress debates future military authorizations.” In addition to meeting with military leaders during their visit, the members met with His Majesty King Abdullah in Jordan. The meeting focused on strengthening the Jordanian and U.S. ties, ongoing international security threats to both nations, and the members of the CODEL expressed their continued support to address challenges facing the region. As part of his ongoing “Military Voices Campaign,” Congressman Ashford met with troops serving overseas from the States of Nebraska. Congressman Ashford is committed to addressing the challenges facing both our active duty military, their families, and our veterans, and this visit served as an opportunity to get their input on how we can support them during and after their service. “Our ‘Military Voices Campaign’ is an ongoing effort to get input from the entire military community,” said Congressman Ashford. “Our men and women in uniform who are currently serving add a unique perspective to this conversation. It was an honor to spend some time with them and hear their stories, and I’m committed to taking their thoughts with me as we continue this listening tour of the 2nd District with our veterans and military families.” Photos of Congressman Ashford’s trip are available for media use and are available by clicking here. ###
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today announced the guidelines for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. Each year, high school students submit an original artwork from each Congressional district across the country. One winning entry is selected to be displayed on the U.S. Capitol grounds for one year. Submissions for the 2nd Congressional District are due by March 2, 2015. “We have tremendous talent in the 2nd District, and the Congressional Art Competition is a chance for us to put that talent on display for everyone who visits the U.S. Capitol to see,” said Congressman Ashford. “We look forward to working with our local educators, students, and the arts community to have active participation from across the second district, and I encourage students to get involved in this year’s competition.” Congressman Ashford is working with The Nebraska Art Teachers Association (NATA) is to coordinate the competition. The winner of the competition will be selected from an independent panel of artists and organizations within the community. The official rules, guidelines and submission forms are available online here. First place artwork will be displayed for one year, in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. In addition, Congressman Ashford will also display the runners-up in his Washington, D.C. and District Office. The competition, which began in 1982, has had over 650,000 participants from all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories. Last year’s winner was Ian Marcus, who submitted the work: Liquid Dreaming, which may be viewed online here. For more information, anyone interested in submitting an entry should contact Congressman Ashford’s office at (402) 916-5678. ###
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today launched the “Military Voices Campaign” in the 2nd District. The effort is meant to get broad input from active duty members of the military on the challenges they, and their families face, as well as input from veterans on the difficulties they face once their military service is over. Congressman Ashford and his team will spend the next six weeks visiting with the military community about their most pressing needs. In addition, this week, Congressman Ashford will travel overseas for his first official visit with troops serving on active duty, including members of the military serving from the State of Nebraska. For security purposes, the exact details of the trip will be released at a later date. “Whether it’s healthcare needs, employment, or even homelessness, our troops and their families face significant challenges during and after their service to our country,” said Congressman Ashford. “My team and I want to have a complete understanding of what we can do to help when veterans return home and how we can be a resource to troops serving overseas and their families. We want to be a support system for the military community, and I am looking forward to traveling around to hear their concerns and finding out what we can do to help.” Rep. Ashford is already exploring and advocating for traditional and innovative solutions to address veteran health care needs. To assist in his efforts, he needs to hear from veterans about what services are most heavily needed. “Our state is home to multiple generations of veterans, and we want to make sure we are hearing from them all, whether they are 25 or 75, male or female, saw active combat or not. Their health care needs are all different and important.” The “Military Voices Campaign” will run until March 20th. During this first week, Rep. Ashford spoke at the Nebraska Veterans of Foreign Wars Mid-Winter Conference and visited the VA hospital in Omaha. Congressman Ashford will also tour STRATCOM and the 55th Wing Command at Offutt Air Force Base as part of the ongoing program. Anyone who would like to offer input to the campaign or visit with a member of Congressman Ashford’s team to discuss the initiative may contact our office at (402) 916-5678 or www.ashford.house.gov/militaryvoices. ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) cosponsored legislation to guarantee continued funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Current funding is set to expire on February 27, 2015, without Congressional action. At the same time, Congressman Ashford called on Congress to act separately to pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform (CIR) legislation. “Democrats and Republicans have to get out of this habit of governing by crisis, and we can’t continue to ignore that our current immigration policy is outdated and ineffective” said Congressman Ashford. “We are in the midst of an international crisis that demands a fully functioning Department of Homeland Security, and at the same time, our broken immigration system is costing this country jobs and money. We need to debate and pass comprehensive immigration reform on its own merits – these two issues are not, and should not, be linked. Funding for the Department of Homeland is good for our national security and passing comprehensive immigration reform is good for our economy. Both deserve the full attention of Congress right away.” This new legislation, H.R. 861, will fund DHS through September 30, 2015. In 2013, the U.S. Senate passed a comprehensive immigration reform package by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 68-32. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the legislation would reduce the deficit by an estimated $900 billion. The House failed to act on the legislation last Congress, but Congressman Ashford today called on both the House and Senate to bring the legislation up for a vote. ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today released the following statement on House passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The legislation passed the United States Senate by a bipartisan vote of 62-36. With House passage, by a vote of 270-152, the legislation now heads to President Barack Obama’s desk for his signature or veto. “For years in the Legislature, I worked with both the environmental and business communities on how we can safely construct this pipeline that won’t cause undue harm to Nebraska. Together, with their help, we developed a routing process to minimize potential harm,” said Congressman Ashford. “Unlike previous bills passed by Congress, this legislation protects the State of Nebraska throughout the construction and operation of the pipeline and includes bipartisan proposals from the Senate to ensure our federal buildings are more energy efficient and seeks to strengthen current regulations on energy development.” “I know there are differing views on this pipeline, but Nebraska will experience substantial economic activity from construction and operation of the pipeline. From good-paying construction jobs to ongoing operation activity throughout our region, this is an infrastructure project this country needs. Study after study, at the federal and state level, has shown that this project is in the best interest of the country and will not undermine our ongoing efforts to combat climate change. In fact, transporting this oil through this pipeline is safer for the environment than the alternative option. I urge the President to follow Congress’ lead and allow it to move forward.” ###
02.05.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Brad Ashford (NE-02) today joined Congressman Dave Loebsack (IA-02) to introduce the Congressional Halt in Pay Increases (CHIP IN) and Cut Congressional Pay Act, bipartisan legislation that cuts the pay of members of Congress , which has not been done since the Great Depression, by 10 percent and repeals a provision of law that provides members of Congress an automatic pay raise. Currently, members of Congress are entitled to an automatic pay increase each year and must take a vote to deny that increase. “The last four years in Congress have been some of the least productive in our nation’s history. The partisanship and gridlock have reached an all-time high, and when I travel around the 2nd District, Nebraskans tell me they want accountability,” said Congressman Ashford. “With our country facing growing debt crisis this legislation is a good-faith effort from Congress to get our fiscal house in order, and I am proud to support this common sense legislation with my colleague from Iowa. I made this commitment to the people of Nebraska, and I will continue to push Congress to work together to do the job we were sent here to do.” “While millions of Americans are still recovering from the Great Recession, Members of Congress haven’t seen their pay decrease since the Great Depression in the 1930s,” said Congressman Loebsack. “I believe that those elected to serve shouldn’t be in it to line their own pockets, which is why it is time to cut Member’s pay and stop the automatic increases that take place. And with the fiscal mess that our nation continues to face, we have to show our constituents that we have the personal fiscal discipline needed to reform our budget process. The American people deserve better. It’s time for Congress to show it is serious about making good, tough choices for the country.” Congressman Ashford is following through on a commitment he made to the people of Nebraska’s 2nd District to make Congress more accountable to the American people. The 113th Congress, which ended December 31, 2014, was the second least productive Congress in modern history, surpassed only by the 112th Congress, which ended December 31, 2012. ###
01.28.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Brad Ashford (NE-02) joined nine of his colleagues as an original co-sponsor to introduce the bipartisan Savings, Accountability, Value, and Efficiency (“SAVE”) Act to cut approximately $479 billion in government spending over 10 years by rooting out waste and improving efficiency. The bill was sponsored by Representative Patrick Murphy (D-FL) and Representative David Jolly (R-FL). With the national debt projected to rise to $21 trillion by 2025 and deficits set to rise again, the bipartisan SAVE Act introduced today is an effort to cut wasteful and duplicative spending to bring the country’s fiscal house in order. "Washington needs to bring Nebraska values to spending issues. In my home state of Nebraska, we are mandated by the state constitution to balance the budget. This bill would save the government almost half a trillion dollars over 10 years through eliminating wasteful and duplicative spending. This includes common-sense measures like buying in bulk, just like families do every day when they go to Costco,” Rep. Ashford said. Rep. Ashford spoke on the House floor about the measure today. To view the video clickhttps://ashford.house.gov/media-center/videos/1-28-15-one-minute-floor-speech-save-act. Major Provisions in the SAVE Act: Bulk Buying – SAVE would promote strategic sourcing across federal agencies, leveraging massive federal buying power to lower prices. Contract Competition – SAVE would improve best practices in federal agency contract competition to reduce the number of noncompetitive contracts and to reduce expenses. Data Centers – SAVE would consolidate data centers across federal agencies to allow for cost savings and increased efficiency. Medicare and Medicaid Fraud – SAVE would improve the ability of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to find and eliminate fraud through better data collection and analysis. Effective Foreign Aid – SAVE would study foreign aid for waste and inefficient spending. No Passports for Delinquent Taxpayers – SAVE would cancel passports of citizens who owe more than $50,000 in taxes, similar to how the State Department takes passports from citizens who owe more than $2,500 in child support. Software License Management – SAVE would require government to end fragmented and ineffective software practices by buying in bulk and shedding unnecessary licenses. Codify Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) Spending – SAVE would codify OMB’s guidance on how the Overseas Contingency Operations fund may be used for non-war activities, using the same language that the House passed in the NDAA for 2015. Energy Efficient Buildings – SAVE would require agencies to implement energy-efficient initiatives via performance savings contracts. Duplicative Senior Health Payments – SAVE would study redundant or accidental payments on behalf of individuals simultaneously enrolled in both the VA and Medicare Advantage. No Tax Refunds for Identity Thieves – SAVE would study how to eliminate the more than 1 million tax refund applications each year that show characteristics of identity theft. Streamline Department of Defense Language Programs – SAVE would streamline the military's contracting, translation, and interpretation services to enhance cross-branch applicability. Private Sector Audit of the Department of Defense – SAVE would authorize a private sector audit once Department of Defense is auditable to incentivize greater discovery and implementation of potential efficiencies. See a copy of the legislation click http://patrickmurphy.house.gov/uploadedfiles/save_act_2015.pdf. ###
01.12.2015	January 12, 2015 – Today, Congressman Brad Ashford delivered his first speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. Congressman Ashford lauded the Nebraska tradition of governing in the speech and called for a more bipartisan and collaborative approach to legislating in Washington. The Congressman pledged to be an independent and pragmatic voice for his constituents, and urged his colleagues to follow the example of the Nebraska Unicameral, the only nonpartisan legislature in the nation. Video of January 12, 2015 -- Floor Speech on Bipartisanship and the Nebraska Tradition of Governing
01.09.2015	January 9, 2015 -- Today, Congressman Brad Ashford was named to the highly-regarded Armed Services Committee in the House of Representatives for the 114th Congress. Nebraska’s 2nd District is adjacent to Offutt Air Force Base, which is home to the United States Strategic Command (STRATCOM). The district is home to a significant population of Offutt employees and families. “I’m deeply honored to have the opportunity to serve on the Armed Services Committee,” said Congressman Ashford. “Offutt Air Force Base and STRATCOM are critical to our military infrastructure and to our national security. The world looks to STRATCOM as a leader in intelligence and surveillance. As our enemies develop new ways to undermine our nation’s security, STRATCOM’s expertise in cybersecurity, global defense, and combating weapons of mass destruction is more essential than ever before.” STRATCOM is one of nine Unified Combatant Commands of the US Department of Defense. It protects vital US interests through intelligence and surveillance, and oversees defense-related space operations, missile defense, and cyberspace.
01.08.2015	January 8, 2015 – Today Congressman Brad Ashford voted in support of H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act. Congressman Ashford is an original cosponsor of the legislation. Under the Affordable Care Act, businesses that employ more than 50 employees are required to provide health care to their full-time employees, which the law defines as anyone who works 30 or more hours a week. The Save American Workers Act would raise the threshold that defines full-time employment to 40 hours a week. While the provision’s intent is to provide healthcare coverage to more low-income Americans, it has had the opposite effect on thousands of workers, forcing businesses to cut back employee hours in order to save costs. Nebraskans who supplement their incomes with a part-time job of 35 hours a week may be dropped down to fewer than 30 hours or even terminated so that their employer can avoid having to pay for their coverage. Raising the threshold to 40 hours a week will encourage job creation and increase worker hours, while easing the regulatory burden placed on businesses. “My parents ran a small business while I was growing up, and I can tell you firsthand that their full-time week was far more than thirty hours,” said Congressman Ashford. “As it currently stands, Obamacare is forcing businesses to choose between providing health care for their employees and keeping their doors open – and Nebraskans are losing income as a result. That’s not a common-sense solution for Nebraska families.”
01.06.2015	January 6, 2015 - Today Congressman Brad Ashford, an original cosponsor of H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act, applauded the bill’s passage through the House of Representatives. The vote passed the House unanimously. The vote, which will increase job opportunities for veterans and will provide a boost for small businesses, occurred on Congressman Ashford’s first day of votes in the 114th Congress. Congressman Ashford was sworn into Congress earlier on Tuesday. “Our nation’s veterans put their lives on the line in order to protect our freedoms, but now they are coming home to a job market that is penalizing employers for trying to hire them,” said Congressman Brad Ashford. “The Hire More Heroes Act will release employers from onerous regulations, allowing them to bring more veterans onto their staffs. Bipartisan legislation such as this bill is what Congress needs to focus on in order to help our veterans and our economy.” Under the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate, businesses are required to provide coverage for their employees regardless of existing healthcare coverage from the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Hire More Heroes Act would allow employers to exclude veteran employees who receive their healthcare coverage from these agencies from the mandate, reducing regulatory burdens on employers and encouraging businesses to hire veterans.
