03.08.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today made the following statement after voting against Speaker Pelosi’s legislation (H.R. 1) that would require taxpayers to match funds raised by political candidates. “Speaker Pelosi says she wants to get money out of politics, but actions speak louder than words,” said Bost. “Not only would this sham of a reform bill put more money into politics, it would do so at the taxpayer’s expense. Taxpayers would be forced to match every $1 in ‘small dollar’ donations raised by a candidate 6 times over. That’s $6 of your money for every $1 raised by the candidate, whether you support their positions or not. There’s a big difference between free speech and forced speech.” NOTE: Rep. Bost delivered a speech on the House floor opposing H.R. 1, which is available HERE. Background: H.R. 1 would create a taxpayer-funded slush fund for politicians and political consultants that could also bankroll extremist candidates on both sides of the aisle. The bill would strip critical enforcements that could make it possible for illegal immigrants to vote in federal elections. Additionally, the bill would trample states’ rights and codify ballot harvesting – the practice of political operatives gathering voters’ mail-in ballots and dumping them at the polls. # # #
03.07.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) made the following statement about the tragic death of Army Sgt. Holli Bolinski, of Pinckneyville, Illinois, who passed away in Kuwait on March 5. Sgt. Bolinski was stationed out of Mount Vernon, IL. “This is truly gut-wrenching news,” said Bost. “I can’t fathom the emotions of Sgt. Bolinski’s family right now. Sgt. Bolinski’s service to our nation will not be forgotten. Please pray for the Bolinski family during this trying time.” ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted with a majority of his colleagues in the House to pass the bipartisan Burn Pit Registry Enhancement Act. This legislation will strengthen and enhance the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) registry of service members and veterans who were exposed to toxic chemicals and fumes from open-air burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan. “When the brave men and women of our military return home from their service, they should have peace of mind that they will be cared for,” said Bost. “I’ve had veterans come to my office after having trouble with the VA concerning health conditions that were potentially caused by the use of burn pits in Iraq or Afghanistan. It’s deeply frustrating that the VA does not have enough data to fully understand the effects of burn pits. We’ve seen this movie before with the Blue Water Navy veterans from the Vietnam War. Today’s legislation is a good, bipartisan step forward to address this issue early with our most recent generation of veterans.” Background: As early as 2003, U.S. military installations in Afghanistan and Iraq began to rely on open-air burn pits to dispose of waste materials. The Airborne Hazards and Burn Pit Registry helps veterans, doctors, and the VA monitor veterans' health, keep them informed about studies and treatments, and improve programs to help veterans who are concerned that they may have been exposed to toxic chemicals while they were deployed. The bipartisan Burn Pit Registry Enhancement Act would ensure that the burn pit registry is updated with the cause of death of registered individuals, allowing for a more comprehensive understanding of the health of individuals on the registry, including if any of their health complications or cause of death were the result of burn pit exposure. This important information will better enable the registry to support research into the range of health impacts from burn pits that emitted toxic compounds and develop appropriate health care responses for veterans to improve their lives. # # #
02.27.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced his opposition to two gun control bills being considered in the House of Representatives this week. H.R. 8 and H.R. 1112 will be voted on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. “The gun control legislation being considered this week infringes on the 2nd Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens and does absolutely nothing to stop incidents of mass violence,” said Bost. “As a father and grandfather, I want to reduce gun violence as much as anyone. But these bills make it harder for law-abiding citizens to defend themselves and others against criminals who have guns. We need to enforce the laws already on the books rather than limit the rights of law-abiding citizens who want to protect their families. I think Representative Scalise would have been able to get that point across had he been allowed to testify when these bills were under consideration in committee.” NOTE: The gun control legislation was considered in the House Judiciary Committee earlier this month. House Republican Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), a victim of the congressional baseball practice shooting two years ago, was refused by the majority the opportunity to testify before the committee about gun violence. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today made the following statement after voting against legislation that would block the President from carrying out his national emergency declaration to protect the southern border. “Border security is national security,” said Bost. “If you look at the security and humanitarian crisis at our border, it’s pretty tough to say with a straight face that this isn’t an emergency. The President is using the legal tools that are available. This includes a law that goes back to 1976 and has been used dozens of times allowing him to declare this emergency. Nobody's ever challenged or questioned the constitutionality until now. The only difference now is not what’s at stake—its who’s occupying the White House. This vote is nothing more than a political stunt by Nancy Pelosi to appease the fringe elements of her party.” PAST USES OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS: • Presidents have declared nearly 60 national emergencies since the National Emergencies Act was passed in 1976. • There were 31 ongoing national emergencies when President Trump declared the national emergency at our border, bringing the total number currently in effect to 32. These ongoing national emergencies are reviewed every year by the President—and renewed as appropriate. • In fact, President Obama declared a national emergency to deal with the threat of transnational criminal organizations, including cartels operating on our southern border. • Presidents have regularly issued national emergency declarations to address problems overseas. President Clinton declared a national emergency in response to the blood diamond trade in Sierra Leone. President Obama declared national emergencies related to situations in Somalia, Libya, Yemen, Ukraine, South Sudan, Burundi, and more. • National emergencies have also been used to address problems domestically, such as when President Obama declared a national emergency in response to the swine flu. • Between 2001 and 2013, DOD undertook 18 emergency military construction projects using the same emergency construction authority President Trump has invoked. # # #
02.26.2019	Washington - U.S. Representative Mike Bost (R-IL), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today unveiled bipartisan legislation, the VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act, to address the growing problem of VA medical centers operating without permanent directors. Bost introduced the bill along with U.S. Representative Jim Costa (D-CA). “No business or organization can successfully operate under a revolving door of short-term leaders – especially not one tasked with caring for America’s heroes,” said Rep. Bost. “Restoring accountability and leadership at the VA should be a primary focus in Congress. That’s why we can’t afford to continue operating in this haphazard way. As a veteran myself, it’s my duty to do my part in providing the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve. Our bipartisan legislation is a strong step in that direction.” Almost 20 VA medical centers nationwide currently lack a permanent director. Some of these facilities have not been staffed by a permanent director in almost two years. In lieu of a permanent director, these facilities have been managed by interim directors who may only serve in that capacity for an average tenure of 120 days. Bost’s legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to report to Congress with a plan for addressing the shortage of permanent directors, a shortage that could hinder the ability to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to our veterans. The VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act: Requires the Secretary of the VA to develop and submit to Congress a plan to hire highly-qualified medical directors for each medical center that lacks a permanent director within 120 days of enactment; Identifies possible impediments to staffing facilities with permanent directors; and Assesses the possibility of promoting and training qualified candidates from within the VA for promotion to Senior Executive Service positions. ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released a statement regarding President Trump's intent to sign the fiscal year 2019 appropriations package into law. The legislation, paired with a potential national emergency declaration from the president, would ensure the federal government has the resources necessary to build a wall and enhance technology to combat drugs and human trafficking at the border. “I am pleased that Congress averted another costly government shutdown while providing resources to build more than 55 miles of new physical security barriers along our borders,” said Bost. “This agreement will help provide certainty that government services will be funded. That being said, it’s a shame that Nancy Pelosi and the open borders wing of her party have put us in a position of choosing between funding essential government services and securing our borders, especially when they supported these barriers in the past.” Highlights of Funding Bill Secures America: Addresses the humanitarian and security crisis at the southwest border by including $1.375 billion for 55 new miles of wall or physical barrier, as well as additional technology to combat human and drug trafficking. Supports Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), including funding for additional detention beds, allowing flexibility to address surges in illegal immigration and apprehensions. Reduces the immigration case backlog by increasing the number of immigration judge teams from 395 to 534. Combats the financing of terrorism and terrorist groups and strengthens the development and enforcement of sanctions against Iran, North Korea, Russia, and Cuba. Supports Agriculture Increases funding in agricultural research programs. Gives agricultural producers certainty by funding the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund Enhances Economic Prosperity: Encourages economic development and job creation in rural communities like Southern Illinois by providing nearly $4billion for rural development programs. Reins in the EPA's economically harmful regulatory agenda by cutting funding for regulatory programs by $15 million. Invests in Infrastructure: Includes over $72 billion in transportation infrastructure funding. Provides $660 million in rural broadband expansion to unserved / underserved rural communities. ###
02.11.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today announced his committee assignments for the 116th Congress. Bost will continue to serve as a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure, and the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Additionally, Bost will maintain his position as the top Republican on the VA Committee’s Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. “Committee assignments may sound a little bit dry and procedural, but the committees I will serve on this Congress are vitally important to the interests of Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “Our region is blessed with diverse agricultural products and I will continue to be a strong voice on the Agriculture Committee for the more than 10,000 producers in our district. Southern Illinois serves as a transportation hub for our nation. But our infrastructure is in desperate need of repair. I’m confident we can find common ground on the Transportation Committee to rebuild our highways, roads, locks, and dams. Illinois’ 12th Congressional District is also home to over 55,000 of our nation’s heroes. As a veteran, I’m honored to continue working on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee and humbled to retain my position on the Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs subcommittee. My position on these committees will ensure that the interests of Southern Illinoisans are well-represented in Congress.” Committee and Subcommittee Assignments: House Committee on Agriculture House Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit House Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure House Subcommittee on Highways and Transit House Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment House Committee on Veterans' Affairs House Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (Ranking Member) House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations ###
02.08.2019	Washington, DC- U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) announced that he will co-sponsor the Employer Participation in Repayment Act, which would incentivize employers to offer student loan assistance to help their employees pay off student loan debt. The bill would help companies recruit and retain employees by making student loan payments by employers tax exempt up to $5,250 a year—similar to tax exemptions for tuition assistance programs. “The average college graduate with a bachelor’s degree leaves school with almost $30,000 in student debt,” said Bost. “This growing burden of student loan debt not only holds back many American workers, it also puts a troubling strain on our nation’s economy. I’m proud to support this bipartisan legislation to incentivize employers to invest in their workers and strengthen our economy.” ###
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced he will cosponsor the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 962), which requires appropriate medical care for children who survive abortion procedures. The bill also imposes strong criminal penalties for failure to provide such care—while also protecting women upon whom abortions have been performed from prosecution. “As a father and grandfather, I know that the love that a family feels for their children doesn’t begin on the day the child is born,” said Bost. “It starts when they learn that their prayers have been answered and that a new life is being brought into this world. It breaks my heart that loopholes currently exist that allow babies who survive abortion and are born to simply die with no medical attention. This abhorrent practice must end. And it must end now.” The ethics of killing infants after they have left the birth canal alive is not a matter of debate. The Born-Alive Infants Protection Act of 2002 became law with support from Republicans and Democrats. That law made clear that infants who survive abortions should be recognized as persons, but it did not ensure that these babies are given appropriate medical care. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivor Protection Act ensures that a baby who survives an abortion will receive the same treatment as any child naturally born premature at the same age, without prescribing any particular form of treatment. H.R. 962: Requires health care practitioners who are present at the live birth exercise skill, care, and diligence to preserve the life and health of the child—the same degree of care that would be offered to any other child born prematurely the same gestational age. After those efforts, the health care workers must transport and admit the child to a hospital. Requires health care practitioners and hospital employees to report violations to law enforcement authorities, reducing the number of born-alive abortions that go unreported. Penalizes the intentional killing of a born-alive child through fines or up to 5 years imprisonment. Gives the mother of the abortion survivor a civil cause of action and protection from prosecution, recognizing that women are the second victims of abortion and promoting the dignity of motherhood. ###
02.05.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday evening: “I appreciate President Trump using his address to highlight some of the work he and Congress can pursue together to protect America’s workers, grow our economy, and keep our families safe,” said Bost. “These bipartisan, common sense solutions are vitally important to the future of Southern Illinois. Let’s not kid ourselves, our nation faces many challenges. But I’ll always believe that we, as Americans, share so much common ground. Washington just needs to spend less time digging in our heels and more time building upon the values that make this country great.” ###
01.28.2019	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced he will cosponsor legislation (H.R. 748) to repeal a 40% excise tax on certain employer-sponsored health insurance plans, known as the “Cadillac Tax.” The tax would impact employers and families whose health insurance plans cost more than $11,100 for an individual, and $29,750 for family coverage. The “Cadillac Tax” was originally a provision in Obamacare, but implementation has been delayed numerous times by bipartisan coalitions in Congress, most recently to 2022. “The Cadillac Tax was a money grab to pay for Obamacare that didn’t take into account the financial burden and strain it put on employees and their families,” said Bost. “This oppressive tax hits family budgets while making health care less accessible. Thankfully, the tax is delayed for a few years, but we can provide certainty to employers and working families with a full repeal.” The legislation has gained support from a host of organizations, including the AFL-CIO: “Working families have waited too long for repeal of the 40% health benefits tax," said AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. "It's a shame that health care remains out of reach for millions across the country because they can’t afford to see their doctor. It’s time to end this tax that drives up deductibles and copays that empty workers’ wallets.” ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today made the following statement after President Trump announced a short-term agreement that will fund the federal government through February 15. “This shutdown never would have happened had both parties shown an equal willingness to work together and secure the border,” said Bost. “I agree with the administration’s decision to reopen the government, even as Speaker Nancy Pelosi continues turning her back on bipartisan negotiations. I’m pleased that our federal workers will begin to receive their paychecks again and that full government services will be made available again to the American people. These hardworking men and women didn’t deserve to have their financial wellbeing held hostage. This short-term agreement allows time to recognize the importance of working together on this critical national security issue, hopefully ensuring that we can both fund the government and secure the border into the future.” # # #
01.24.2019	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Mike Bost voted for a measure in the House Wednesday night to ensure all federal workers are paid during the partial government shutdown (Motion to Recommit H.R. 648). Speaker Pelosi urged her members to vote against the measure, resulting in only 10 House Democrats voting in support. “It’s despicable that federal employees are being used as bargaining chips during negotiations to end the government shutdown and secure the border,” said Bost. “That’s why I voted to ensure all federal workers receive pay during the lapse in funding. Unfortunately, Speaker Pelosi urged her members to vote against this measure, which ultimately failed in the House. This is not a game. Everyday lives are being affected here.” Representative Bost has twice voted to fund the government and fund the president’s request for additional physical barriers along the southern border: 12/20/18 H.R. 695, Roll Call 39 1/16/19 Previous Question to H.R. 268, Roll Call 34 Representative Bost has voted three times to provide backpay to federal employees affected by the shutdown. The majority has voted 3 times against these measures and has moved no legislation to provide pay to federal employees during the shutdown: 1/17/19 Motion to Recommit H.J. Res. 28, Roll Call 43 1/23/19 Motion to Recommit H.R. 648, Roll Call 48 1/24/19 Motion to Recommit H.J.Res. 31, Roll Call 50 ###
01.17.2019	O’FALLON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today announced he has nominated 18 local students for admittance to the U.S. Service Academies. Nominations were made following the recommendations of an independent panel that reviewed applications and conducted formal interviews. Final determination on admission is made by the individual academies. “Southern Illinois is blessed to have exceptional and patriotic young men and women who are already leading their community in and out of the classroom,” said Bost. “As a veteran, I encourage these individuals to apply for an academy nomination and continue to represent the best our state has to offer. I’m proud that Southern Illinois produces some of the best students in this country to lead a new generation.” Academy Nominations Brent Anderson attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. William Brant attends First Baptist Academy and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Nathan Burton attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Noah Cash attends Marion High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Cade Cruse attends Marion High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy. Joseph Deagan attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy and Air Force Academy. Gavin Gonzalez attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Military Academy, Naval Academy, and Air Force Academy. Julia Gundlach attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Jace Hahs attends Herrin High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy. David Hur attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Sean Kulig attends Belleville West High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy Samuel McCoy attends O’Fallon High School and was nominated to the Military Academy. James Nash attends Belleville East High School and was nominated to the Air Force Academy. Christine Null attends Carterville High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy. Anthony Rizzo attends St. Louis University High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy and Air Force Academy. Steven Siemonsma attends Belleville East High School and was nominated to the Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy. Sean Spoerre attends Carterville High School and was nominated to the Military Academy, Naval Academy, and Air Force Academy. Brendan Wilson attends Mascoutah High School and was nominated to the Military Academy and Naval Academy. Members of Congress nominate candidates to the U.S. Service Academies each year and the number of vacancies for each congressional district is determined by law. Candidates can be considered for openings at the U.S. Air Force Academy (Colorado Springs, Co.), U.S. Military Academy (West Point, N.Y.), U.S. Merchant Marines Academy (Kings Point, N.Y.) and the U.S. Naval Academy (Annapolis, Md.). To be considered for appointment for the Class of 2024 all applicants must be: a U.S. citizen; a legal resident of the 12th District; at least 17 but not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2020; single; and have no dependents. It is recommended that applicants contact the academy or academies of their choice to request a pre-candidate questionnaire, which is the first step in the Admission Office’s evaluation. For more information or to obtain an application packet for next year’s nominations, visit Rep. Bost’s website HERE. ###
01.16.2019	O’FALLON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today announced he is seeking a wounded warrior or medically-retired veteran for a position in either his O’Fallon or Carbondale district office. The veteran chosen for the fellowship will engage in community outreach and act as a facilitator between constituents and federal, state, and local agencies. “We made a promise to our veterans that we will care for them when they return from battle,” said Bost. “Making sure we honor that commitment is one of my highest priorities. That’s why I’m pleased to be working with the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program to provide a unique opportunity for a Southern Illinois veteran to be part of our congressional office, helping their community and gaining new skills for the future.” The Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program was established by the House of Representatives to provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within member offices. The program is limited to veterans who meet all of the following requirements: Honorably discharged, released from active duty within the last five years, terminal pay grades at or below E-5 or O-3, 20% or greater service connected disabilities (waived if you have a Purple Heart). Veterans who are in receipt of a 20-year or Temporary Early Retirement Authorization (TERA) retirement are not eligible for the program. Interested veterans should go to https://www.usajobs.gov/ and search “Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program” for more information and how to apply. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Al Lawson (D-FL) introduced bipartisan legislation to make more United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) apprenticeships available to veterans. The Veterans’ Agricultural Apprenticeship Act instructs the USDA to work with state departments of agriculture to identify farmers and ranchers eligible for a direct loan to train apprentice veterans. The loan would, in turn, be paid back to the USDA after the harvest season. “Despite dysfunction in Washington, I’m still fighting for bipartisan, common-sense solutions to help our farmers and our veterans,” said Bost. “Our bill helps our farmers and ranchers fill jobs and expand their operations while offering our veterans new skills and a potential career path after their service. For the past two years, Representative Lawson and I have sat right next to each other in the House Agriculture Committee. We both have rural economies in our districts and we both know there’s no more dedicated workforce than our returning military men and women. I’m proud to carry this bill to give a hand up to our returning heroes.” “The ‘Vets to Ag’ bill helps to prioritize on-the-job training for our nation’s veterans in the agricultural field once they leave active duty,” said Lawson. “Agriculture is a major part of Florida’s economy, and my district consists of the highest veteran population in the state. This initiative will provide our military personnel with hands-on experience, access to quality jobs and the opportunity to help feed America.” The average age for a farmer is now 58 and has been on the rise for 30 years, according to USDA data. This trend could be changed by encouraging veterans to enter the agriculture industry as nearly 45 percent of veterans come from rural America. # # #
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives for the 116th Congress. “It’s moments like this when I have to pinch myself and say, ‘Wow, I’m just a kid from Murphysboro,’” said Bost. “It’s the honor of a lifetime serving as the representative for my fellow Southern Illinoisans. Moving forward, I'm going to seek common ground with anyone - Republican or Democrat - without compromising my Southern Illinois values. I'll continue working in a bipartisan way to fight for working families, our veterans, our farmers, our steelworkers, and all residents of Southern Illinois. This is my home and I will always fight for it. Always.” # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, DC — U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement Thursday evening after voting to fund the federal government until February 8th and providing the Trump administration with the funding necessary to secure America’s borders. “The highest responsibility of Congress is to ensure the safety and security of our nation and the American people,” said Bost. “It’s an embarrassment that Nancy Pelosi and other Washington Democrats would play politics and risk shutting down the federal government over common sense security measures that they are already on record supporting. Not only does this bill avert a shutdown of the federal government, it also makes our nation safer by providing critical funding to strengthen security on our borders. Let me be crystal clear: we must secure our borders, and no threat of a Pelosi shutdown changes that fact.” ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for the House-Senate compromise Agriculture and Nutrition Act (H.R.2), commonly known as the Farm Bill. The House legislation, which authorizes agricultural and nutrition policy for the next five years, includes provisions Bost introduced to aid beginning farmers in growing their operations and help existing farmers enhance their nutrient management practices. The bill now moves to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “Protecting our agricultural economy is essential to the sustainability of our rural areas,” said Bost. “Illinois’ 12th Congressional District is the most diverse in terms of agriculture in the entire state. I made it a priority to listen to the over 10,000 producers in my district, so I knew what they needed most. I’m proud of the provisions I fought to have included in this Farm Bill and I encourage President Trump to provide our farmers certainty by signing this legislation into law.” Bost Provisions Included in Farm Bill: Section 2502 - Expands options for agriculture producers to access nutrient management technical assistance (Nutrient Management Technical Service Provider Certification Act) Section 5103 - Modernizes Farm Service Agency’s Guaranteed Loan Program (Bale Act) Section 2304 – Improves farmers’ ability to recover nutrients (Nutrient Recovery Systems Amendment) NOTE: A summary of key components in the 2018 Farm Bill is available HERE. ###
10.24.2018	Belleville, IL - U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today held a forum with farmers after a tour of Eckert’s Orchard in Belleville, IL along with United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue. They discussed agriculture issues and ways to improve the farming industry in Southern Illinois. “Agriculture is vitally important to the economy of Southern Illinois and to our entire country,” said Bost. “Making sure our farmers’ needs are being met is vital to their success. Today’s forum was an opportunity for the most influential person in American agriculture policy to hear directly from Southern Illinois’ farmers. I will continue to work alongside Secretary Perdue and the Trump administration to make sure we move forward to help our farmers succeed. When America’s farmers succeed, the country succeeds.” “(Mike) can bring the perspective of working folks in Illinois to D.C. and we need that very much so,” said USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue. “It’s good to have him in there fighting for your interests. He is elected to listen to the people and communicate that to me. It is important for me to hear what he hears – plus I love farmers and to get out of DC to the rural countryside, to see production agriculture and great places like Eckert’s here with farm to table education opportunities.” ###
10.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today released the following statement after President Trump signed into law the bipartisan Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) Act to fight the opioid epidemic: “Addiction doesn't care about your race, gender, social class, or politics,” said Bost. “It has ravaged families and communities right here in Southern Illinois. That's why it's so important that we were able to come together around this historic, bipartisan legislation to fight the opioid crisis. If we work together, we can save lives and continue to restore hope.” Key Components of the SUPPORT Act (H.R. 6): Treatment and Recovery Improve and expand access to treatment and recovery services Provide incentives for enhanced care, coordination, and innovation Establish comprehensive opioid recovery centers Prevention Encourage non-addictive opioid alternatives to treat pain Improve data to identify and help at-risk patients and families Address high prescribing rates while enhancing prescription drug monitoring programs Protecting Communities Give law enforcement tools to get dangerous drugs out of our communities Better intercept illicit opioids at international mail facilities Improve access to federal resources for local communities Fighting Fentanyl Better tackle ever-changing synthetic drugs Crack down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs Provide grants for local communities to combat fentanyl A Section-By-Section Summary can be found HERE. ###
10.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – President Donald Trump today signed into law bipartisan legislation authored by U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) to provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to veterans. Bost introduced the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018 (H.R. 4958) in February and helped guide it to passage in the House earlier this year before passing the Senate last month. “Americans owe a debt of gratitude to our nation’s bravest individuals – those who have served and defended our freedom and liberty,” said Bost. “As a country, we must remember the sacrifices of our veterans who have bravely served our nation, as well as their families, and I remain committed to providing the best care possible for them. I thank my colleagues in Congress and President Trump for coming together in a bipartisan effort to give our veterans the benefits they have earned.” “I want to thank the Chairman of the Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Subcommittee Rep. Mike Bost for his steadfast leadership on this issue as the sponsor of this legislation,” said Dr. Phil Roe (TN-1), Chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “I am also so grateful that President Trump has been such a strong champion for veterans and remains committed to ensuring they receive the best support and care.” Background: The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018 would increase the rates of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities as well as the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled veterans as of December 1, 2018, and by the same percentage as Social Security beneficiaries. You can find a summary of the legislation here. ###
10.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – President Trump today signed into law legislation reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which included two provisions sponsored by Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) focused on Buy America domestic procurement requirements and inspiring young people for careers in aviation. “I was proud today that President Trump signed into law legislation reauthorizing and reforming the FAA, which includes legislation I sponsored promoting ‘Buy America’ requirements to finance our country’s infrastructure projects,” said Bost. “This legislation is essential to America’s infrastructure and the next generation of America’s aviators. A provision that I cosponsored requires the FAA to develop a 'Youth in Aviation' task force, giving the tools and resources the next generation needs to succeed.” Bost’s first provision requires the FAA to publish waivers it issues to Buy America domestic procurement requirements and provides an opportunity for public input. Buy America generally requires the use of domestically-produced steel and other manufactured goods in federally-financed infrastructure projects. The second is a provision Bost co-sponsored requiring the FAA to engage public and private industry stakeholders, including colleges and universities, in developing a “Youth in Aviation” task force. The purpose of this task force is to address a potential aviation industry workforce shortage by inspiring grade school students to pursue. ###
10.02.2018	ANNA– U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today announced a $357,375 federal grant to improve security at Union County schools. The grant was awarded through the School Violence Prevention Program, a Department of Justice (DOJ) program created by bipartisan legislation sponsored by Bost. The Securing Our Schools Act was signed into law in March 2018. Bost sent a letter to local government officials to raise awareness of the funding availability and met with school administrators in Anna this summer. 91 jurisdictions were awarded school safety grants nationwide, including 7 in Illinois during the program’s first year. 8 Union County schools were awarded a total of $357,375. The program is expected to grow as awareness increases. “As a father and a grandfather, I know the importance of ensuring our children have an environment where they are safe to grow and learn,” said Bost. “We have advanced safety technology in banks, office buildings, and retail locations, there is no reason we shouldn’t have this technology at our schools to protect our children. This grant program was created because we put politics aside and found a commonsense, bipartisan way to keep our kids safe. And that’s the most important thing.” “This funding will be essential for providing security enhancements to keep our school safe,” said Shelly Clover-Hill, Superintendent at Shawnee Community School District #84. “After meeting with Congressman Bost to discuss the school safety program this summer, I know he is passionate about keeping our kids safe.” Background: The 2018 School Violence Prevention Program provides funding directly to states, units of local government, and Indian tribes to be used to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the grantees’ jurisdictions through evidence-based school safety programs that may include one or more of the following: Coordination with local law enforcement Training for local law enforcement officers to prevent school violence against others and self Placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency Any other measure that, in the determination of the director of the COPS Office, may provide a significant improvement in security Click HERE for more information on the 2018 School Violence Prevention Program. ###
10.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) made the following statement after President Trump announced that the United States, Canada and Mexico have reached an agreement on the renegotiated NAFTA, now formally known as the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA): “The trade agreement announced today with Mexico and Canada is a positive step in putting American workers and farmers on a more even playing field,” said Bost. “As I review the details of the agreement, I’ll continue to support policies that enhance our agriculture producers and improve job opportunities for Americans.” ###
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for H.R. 6, the Support for Patients and Communities Act, a bipartisan bill that combats the opioid epidemic by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting communities, and bolstering efforts to combat illicit synthetic drugs like Fentanyl. “As a father and grandfather, it’s gut-wrenching to hear story after story of personal tragedy due to the ongoing opioid crisis,” said Bost. “In Congress, I have been working to bring light to this crisis and combat its devasting effects. I’ve worked with law enforcement, recovery treatment experts, families impacted by addiction, and representatives from the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs to find solutions to this complex problem. Passage of this legislation is another step in that process. With almost 2,000 opioid overdose fatalities in Illinois in a year, it’s clear more work remains. If we work together with a common purpose, we can save lives and restore hope across America.” Background: More information on H.R. 6 can be found HERE. To find out how Congress is addressing the opioid crisis can also be found HERE. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a legislative agreement with the United States Senate reauthorizing Federal Aviation Administration programs and makes reforms to federal disaster assistance programs. Included in this legislation are two provisions sponsored by U.S. Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) focused on buying American and inspiring careers in aviation for the youth by giving them the resources they need. “I was proud today to vote and help pass the House Bicameral Agreement on FAA Reauthorization, which includes legislation I sponsored promoting buying American to finance our country’s infrastructure projects,” said Bost. “This legislation also consists of my provision that I co-sponsored which will require the FAA to develop a 'youth in Aviation' task force. The younger generation is at the forefront of America’s future, and giving them the tools and resources they need to succeed in pursuing careers in aviation is vitally important for America’s future.” The first provision requires the FAA to publish any waivers it issues to Buy America domestic procurement requirements and provides an opportunity for public input. Buy America generally requires the use of domestically-produced Iron and Steel in federally-financed infrastructure projects. The second is a provision Representative Bost cosponsored that requires the FAA to engage public and private industry stakeholders, including colleges and universities, in developing a “Youth in Aviation” task force. The purpose of this task force is to address a potential aviation industry workforce shortage by inspiring elementary and high school students to consider pursuing careers in aviation. The University of Southern Illinois at Carbondale offers degrees in aviation industry disciplines. ###
09.25.2018	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Bost testified today before a hearing of the House Financial Services Housing Subcommittee concerning the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s failed oversight of the Alexander County Housing Authority. Bost approached subcommittee chairman Sean Duffy (R-WI) for the hearing to shed light on the housing crisis in Cairo and prompt Congress to strengthen federal oversight. “I have been working tirelessly to bring attention to the housing struggle in Cairo and am hopeful today’s hearing helped do so on a national stage,” said Bost. “The housing conditions in Cairo are most familiar to us in Southern Illinois, but there are dozens of public housing projects confronting similar problems across the country. Corruption and neglect have ruled the day for too long while innocent families continue falling through the cracks. We need answers on where the federal government failed in its oversight responsibilities and consider safeguards that will stop similar crises from happening in the future.” “Today’s hearing was essential to help get to the bottom of the Alexander County Housing Authority’s (ACHA) troubling role in allowing living conditions in both the Elmwood and McBride housing developments to deteriorate so much that HUD has to demolish both of them and has taken over possession of the ACHA. Due to the actions of the ACHA, nearly 200 families will have to uproot their lives and move from Cairo, Illinois to another city,” said Duffy. “What’s even more frightening is this could just be the tip of the iceberg, as 50 other Public Housing Authorities have been designated as troubled by the HUD Inspector General. We have to make sure all 3,300 PHA’s comply with HUD’s policies and address health and safety hazards to make sure another situation like Cairo never happens again.” NOTE: Watch Rep. Bost’s testimony HERE. ###
09.21.2018	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced the Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded a $3.75 million grant to the Southern Illinois Airport Authority for construction of two new hangar buildings in Carbondale. The investments are expected to create 45 new jobs and facilitate the expansion of several private aviation companies, the aviation cluster, and workforce training at Southern Illinois University’s Transportation Education Center. “This is a significant investment in Southern Illinois aviation,” said Bost. “This grant will help increase economic opportunity and aviation activity in Jackson County, and that’s a positive development for the region. This is just another example of fostering collaboration, innovation, and job creation throughout Southern Illinois.” ###
09.14.2018	Washington, DC- U.S. Representative Mike Bost today signed a resolution reaffirming his support for protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. H.Res. 1066 expresses that protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions should be retained in law, regardless of any future changes to the Affordable Care Act or any court rulings that could impact access to coverage. “Since day one in Congress, I have been crystal clear that we must protect individuals with pre-existing conditions from losing coverage,” said Bost. “This resolution reaffirms to Southern Illinoisans that my commitment hasn’t changed. If you have a pre-existing condition, you deserve the peace of mind in knowing that you won’t be dropped from receiving coverage when you need it the most.” ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that strengthens infrastructure at America’s ports, locks, dams and waterways. Included in the Water Resources Development Act was a provision introduced by U.S. Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) to help rebuild Alexander County’s Len Small Levee, which was breached during the holiday floods of 2016. The final package is expected to be passed by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by the president in the coming weeks. “This vitally important legislation helps local communities, like those in Alexander County, recover from flood disasters,” said Bost. “Several thousand acres of infrastructure and agriculture land were destroyed when Len Small Levee gave way two years ago. Residents were left in bureaucratic limbo as federal agencies calculated whether fixing the levee was worth their while. In the meantime, Southern Illinois families suffered. This legislation gives a lifeline to rural communities struggling to rebuild after a disaster.” “Mike Bost never lost sight of the plight faced by Alexander County farmers following the breach of the Len Small Levee,” said Kenton Thomas, a member of the Pulaski/Alexander County Farm Bureau and District 18 director of the Illinois Farm Bureau. “His hard work will make it possible for us to repair the levee and help protect the livelihoods of local farming families.” Under current law, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers can only repair a non-federal levee if the flood protection benefits outweigh the costs. The Bost Amendment allows local sponsors to pay the difference between the cost of repairing a levee and its projected flood protection benefits. The Bost Amendment is supported by the American Farm Bureau, National Waterways Conference, and the National Association of Flood and Stormwater Management Agencies (NAFSMA). ###
08.14.2018	CARBONDALE – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a National Science Foundation (NSF) funding award of $180,000 and a Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) award of $244,850 to SIU Carbondale. The NSF grant will support a project related to quantum computing, while the HHS grant will be used to further research into the development and function of Sertoli cells. “These grants are important for SIU and the surrounding community,” said Bost. “They provide vitally important investment in research that may prove to further scientific research and prepare young people today for the careers of tomorrow.” NOTE: More information on the NSF grant can be found HERE. More information on the HHS grant can be found HERE. # # #
08.10.2018	GRANITE CITY – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today toured America’s Central Port in Granite City, IL. The tour follows the announcement last month that the port would receive a $2.27 million Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant for construction of a new rail line. The rail construction will enhance the link between area manufacturers and the nation’s freight transportation network and boost the region’s economic readiness and competitiveness. “America’s Central Port supports over 1,000 jobs and has a massive economic impact on the Metro East region,” said Bost. “Our community will continue to experience economic growth as the port expands through both private investment and grants like this.” Background: The EDA grant totals $2,272,895. The total project cost is $3,270,000 and will result in 16 jobs created, 32 jobs saved, and $1.2 million in private investment. This investment funds the construction of a rail spur, rail uploading pit and driveway improvements to serve the primary harbor storage building at America’s Central Port Manufacturing and Transportation Facility. In addition, the project will repair and renovate the site to allow the Port to attract new tenants to the property, which will bring in new investment, jobs, and related economic activity to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov. ###
08.07.2018	O’FALLON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today hosted members of his opioid task force at his office in O’Fallon to discuss local efforts to fight the opioid epidemic ravaging our communities. Bost provided an update on legislative efforts in Congress and received feedback from law enforcement, recovery treatment experts, and representatives from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. “As a father and grandfather, it’s gut-wrenching to hear stories of personal tragedy and loss due to opioids,” said Bost. “But these aren’t isolated incidents. There were almost 2,000 opioid overdose fatalities in Illinois in 2016. That’s nearly twice the number of deaths from car accidents. These are moms and dads, sons and daughters, neighbors and friends. Receiving feedback and from local law enforcement and recovery experts is vitally important as I continue working in Congress with Republicans and Democrats to pass legislation to fight the opioid scourge. If we work together, we can save lives and continue to restore hope.” Roundtable Participants: Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) Dr. Kari Karidis, Crisis Interventionist and Recovery Support, Companion’s Companion Dr. Andrea Taylor, Clinic Director, VAMC St. Louis Percy Menzies, Assisted Recovery Centers of America Detective Chris Coyne, Metro East Police Officer Background: In May, Bost announced his support for a legislative package of to combat the opioid crisis. More info HERE. An online repository for legislation Congress is considering to fight the opioid crisis is available HERE. According to the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), opioid overdoses in Illinois have increased dramatically in recent years. In 2016, there were 1,946 opioid overdose fatalities in Illinois – nearly twice the number of fatal motor vehicle accidents and more than one and a half times the number of all homicides. Much of this can be attributable to the rise of synthetic opioids such as fentanyl and its analogues. Overall opioid overdose deaths increased 82% between 2013 and 2016; during that same period, overdose deaths due to synthetic opioids increased tenfold. The overall drug overdose rate in Illinois in 2016 was 18.9 per 100,000 population and ranks 28th in the country. A comprehensive compilation of data on the opioid crisis was release by IDPH in December 2017. ###
07.25.2018	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation sponsored by U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) that would reform hiring for Human Resources positions at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) facilities by a vote of 417-0. The VA Hospitals Establishing Leadership Performance (HELP) Act (H.R. 5864) instructs the VA to establish qualifications for each HR position within the VHA and establish standardized performance metrics similar to the private sector. HR departments at the VA currently have no such requirements. The legislation now heads to the Senate for further consideration. Rep. Bost’s Full Remarks available HERE and below. As all of us here today know, the mission of the Department of Veterans Affairs is to care for those “who shall have borne the battle.” When our heroes transition from the military, they deserve to have access to quality healthcare and services. Unfortunately, VA continues to fall short on that promise, due in part to failures in human resources offices. This issue hit close to home for me after the VA National Center for Patient Safety surveyed the Marion VAMC in my district. The Marion survey showed a decline in key factors such as communication between management and staff and reporting problems to management. The VA Committee’s Oversight Subcommittee staff then visited Marion in order to get a firsthand look at the issues at the facility. During the site visit, multiple employees raised concerns about poor management and poor communication, distrust between leadership and management, and the lack of accountability. Despite several efforts to encourage VA Headquarters leadership to address these problems, limited actions have been taken and my office continues to receive complaints. The common thread throughout has been issues in the Human Resources Department. HR management is a critical part of delivering quality healthcare. HR is responsible for recruiting and retaining highly qualified professionals, and the current status quo within VHA’s HR offices cannot continue. That’s why I introduced H.R. 5864, the VA HELP Act with Representative Sinema. This bipartisan, straightforward legislation instructs the VA Secretary to establish qualifications for HR positions within the VHA and to set performance metrics for these positions. I urge members of the House to support H.R. 5864 to ensure that our nation’s veterans are being provided the best possible care from VA employees. Background: The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has published a report identifying serious human capital challenges and flaws within VA’s Human Resources operations that hamper VA’s ability to effectively serve veterans. ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. –The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) today announced it will take several actions to assist farmers while the administration challenges unfair foreign trade practices. USDA will authorize up to $12 billion in programs, which is in line with the estimated $11 billion impact of retaliatory tariffs on U.S. agricultural goods. These programs will assist agricultural producers to meet the costs of disrupted markets. “This short-term relief program to boost our farmers and ranchers allows the Trump administration time to negotiate long-term trade deals that will benefit Southern Illinois’ agricultural economy,” said Bost. “The United States has been taken to the woodshed for years by unfair and illegal trade practices by China and others, and the administration is right to try and level the playing field. Unfortunately, rather than pursue balanced trade deals, China has responded by punishing our agricultural producers through unjustified retaliatory tariffs. I will continue working with our farmers and ranchers to create new markets for the food, fuel, and fiber they produce.” ###
07.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today recognized World War I veteran Paul Stout of Murphysboro on the House floor. July 19 marks the 100th anniversary of Private Stout’s death while serving on the front lines in France. Video available HERE. Rep. Bost’s Remarks: Mr. Speaker, 100 years ago today, a young Marine from Murphysboro, Illinois gave his life on the front lines during World War I. Paul Stout graduated in 1916 from Murphysboro High School and then enlisted in the Marine Corps in February of 1918. In June of 1918, he was deployed to the front lines. At the age of 20, he was Killed In Action in France in July of 1918. For his heroic actions, he was awarded the Purple Heart and Bronze Star with a “V” device for valor. The Paul Stout American Legion Post #127 in my hometown of Murphysboro is named after Private Stout. I had the opportunity to visit his gravesite at Belleau Wood. I can tell you it was a truly moving experience. Although memories may fade over time, we must never forget those who have served and given their lives in defense of freedom and liberty. I yield back. ###
07.13.2018	As U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) urges the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to reconsider its decision to build in North St. Louis, the cloud of legal trouble around NGA’s site selection only grows – as does the media attention. Bost said this morning: “If you planned to build a house and realized it was on unstable ground, you wouldn’t keep building just because you had a blueprint and some two-by-fours. You’d stop construction, review your plans, and consider safer alternatives. That’s all I’m asking NGA to do. Are we throwing good money after bad because it’s too inconvenient to do the right thing? The short-term inconvenience of reevaluation is well-worth the long-term cost savings to our taxpayers and, most importantly, ensuring the strength of NGA-West as a national security asset.” Fix spy mapping decision before taxpayers, military pay dearly The Belleville News-Democrat The BND Editorial Board July 11, 2018 Cheaters shouldn't win, and the folks in St. Louis cheated when they told the federal government that they locked down the 99 acres for the new National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. And they cheated by misleading the Obama Administration that impoverished, crime-ridden north St. Louis was ready for a renaissance. In reality, developer Paul McKee was locking up 1,500 acres of properties using claims and promises and money that Missouri's attorney general is now investigating as possible fraud. And they cheated by saying the 33 acres next door where the old Pruitt-Igoe public housing was razed had been tested for environmental contamination such as radiation, asbestos and who knows what else. For those and other reasons, U.S. Rep. Mike Bost just called on NGA Director Robert Cardillo to halt construction in St. Louis. "I believe the concerns raised more than justify a reconsideration of the decision to make north St. Louis home of the new NGA-West campus," Bost wrote to Cardillo this week. "I again urge you to restrict the use of any federally-appropriated funds on the new NGA-West campus until the full scope of Mr. McKee’s alleged crimes are understood, including any impact they may have had on St. Clair County receiving fair consideration during the site selection process." NGA spokeswoman Nancy M. Rapavi responded by saying they were committed to the north St. Louis site. "Following a review of mission needs, security, cost, environmental analysis, schedule implications, laws, policy, regulations, and executive orders, NGA decided the St. Louis City site is the right choice for its future and the policymakers, warfighters and first responders that depend on the agency's services." Fair consideration had nothing to do with St. Louis getting the NGA. Military mission, economics, future growth, transportation, security and workforce all clearly dictated putting it next to Scott Air Force Base, as military planners had been advocating for more than a decade. They considered it a no-brainer, especially after 9/11 when the main NGA facility was rebuilt next to a military base for security. Remember all the mistakes in the NGA site assessments? They confused St. Clair County, Ill., with a county in Michigan. They had the wrong river flowing through the area. Assets in the preliminary assessment became liabilities in a hastily rewritten final assessment that was obviously changed to fit the old Obama neighborhood organizer vision of defense spending's prime mission being social engineering and social justice. Well, the St. Louis version of that social utopia is pushing little old ladies out of their homes, dumping rubble next to a school until kids got sick, and ignoring the needs and desires of neighbors who had their streets, businesses, crime and community needs ignored by city leaders for decades. The feds are wasting tax dollars as St. Louis enters a tangle of lawsuits and investigations that may prevent any north St. Louis development for years. All these potential entanglements were obvious beforehand, and are all coming true the further they try to advance. Clear land, free land, secure land with no legal entanglements awaits next to Scott Air Force Base. # # #
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – The House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs today passed bipartisan legislation sponsored by U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) that would to reform hiring for Human Resources positions at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) facilities. The VA Hospitals Establishing Leadership Performance (HELP) Act (H.R. 5864) instructs the VA to establish qualifications for each HR position within the VHA and establish standardized performance metrics similar to the private sector. HR departments at the VA currently have no such requirements. The legislation now heads to the full House of Representatives for a vote in the weeks ahead. Rep. Bost’s Full Remarks: As all of us here today know, the mission of the Department of Veterans Affairs is to care for those “who shall have borne the battle.” When our heroes transition from the military, they deserve to have access to quality healthcare and services. Unfortunately, VA continues to fall short on that promise, due in part to failures in human resources offices. This issue hit close to home for me after the VA National Center for Patient Safety surveyed the Marion VAMC in my district. The Marion survey showed a decline in key factors such as communication between management and staff and reporting problems to management. Our Oversight Subcommittee staff then visited Marion in order to get a firsthand look at the issues at the facility. During the site visit, multiple employees raised concerns about poor management and poor communication, distrust between leadership and management, and the lack of accountability. Despite several efforts to encourage VA Headquarters leadership to address these problems, limited actions have been taken and my office continues to receive complaints. The common thread throughout has been issues in the Human Resources Department. HR management is a critical part of delivering quality healthcare. HR is responsible for recruiting and retaining highly qualified professionals, and the current status quo within VHA’s HR offices cannot continue. That’s why I introduced H.R. 5854, the VA HELP Act with Representative Sinema. This bipartisan, straightforward legislation instructs the VA Secretary establish qualifications for HR positions within the VHA and to set performance metrics for these positions. I urge members of the committee to support H.R. 5864 to ensure that our nation’s veterans are being provided the best possible care from VA employees. Background: The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has published a report identifying serious human capital challenges and flaws within VA’s Human Resources operations that hamper VA’s ability to effectively serve veterans. ###
07.10.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “I am pleased to see President Trump nominate Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He is a highly qualified jurist with the temperament and mindset to interpret the U.S. Constitution in the spirit in which our Founders wrote it. I expect Judge Kavanaugh to showcase his sterling credentials and brilliant legal mind in the weeks ahead during confirmation hearings conducted in the Senate.” ###
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL12) today announced the availability of federal grants to improve security at schools. The School Violence Prevention Program is a Department of Justice program that funds the grants. It was created by bipartisan legislation, the Securing Our Schools Act, sponsored by Rep. Bost and signed into law in March 2018. Rep. Bost sent a letter to local government officials to raise awareness of the funding availability. Grant applications are due by July 30, 2018. “As a father and a grandfather, I know the importance of ensuring our children have a safe environment to grow and learn,” said Bost. “This grant program provides funds for schools to purchase life-saving technology to deter threats and to immediately contact first responders when incidents take place. We have advanced safety technology in banks, office buildings, and retail locations, there is no reason we shouldn’t have this technology at our schools to protect our children.” Background: The 2018 School Violence Prevention Program provides funding directly to states, units of local government, and Indian tribes to be used to improve security at schools and on school grounds in the grantees’ jurisdictions through evidence-based school safety programs that may include one or more of the following: Coordination with local law enforcement Training for local law enforcement officers to prevent school violence against others and self Placement and use of metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other deterrent measures Acquisition and installation of technology for expedited notification of local law enforcement during an emergency Any other measure that, in the determination of the director of the COPS Office, may provide a significant improvement in security Click HERE for more information on the 2018 School Violence Prevention Program. # # #
07.09.2018	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) raised concerns with National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Robert Cardillo about the integrity of the site selection process for NGA’s new western headquarters amid allegations that a key developer of the North St. Louis site engaged in tax credit fraud and other misdeeds in securing the property. In his letter, Bost urged the agency to restrict the use of any federal funding for the project until the legal process takes shape and there is a better understanding on how the alleged fraud impacted St. Clair County’s ability to receive fair and equal consideration during the site selection process. “I’ve never had a doubt that the land adjacent to Scott Air Force Base was a far superior site for NGA to achieve its mission,” said Bost. “The decision to award the new campus to North St. Louis never passed the smell test, either in terms of cost or public safety. It now appears our concerns were warranted. The people of Southern Illinois deserve to know that a decision as important as this one was made fairly and with access to the full scope of information about both locations. I don’t see how the agency has any choice but to delay construction, as well as reconsider its selection of North St. Louis, amid this cloud of doubt and legal uncertainty. Simply put: St. Clair County should be back on the table for NGA.” Bost has requested a personal meeting with Cardillo to discuss his concerns. The full letter to Director Cardillo is available HERE and below. July 9, 2018 Director Robert Cardillo National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency 7500 GEOINT Drive Springfield, VA 22150 Dear Director Cardillo: I am writing regarding news reports that indicate land acquired by a developer and donated to the City of St. Louis for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA)’s new western headquarters may have been fraudulently obtained; and I urge you to suspend expending any federally-appropriated funds on the project until an appropriate review of these allegations and their impact on the integrity of the site selection process has taken place. Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly appreciated. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch has reported that Paul McKee, a key developer responsible for helping acquire land parcels for the NGA-West campus is being sued by the State of Missouri for real estate tax credit fraud. The lawsuit includes three civil counts against the developer’s company: tax credit fraud, breach of tax credit application and unjust enrichment. Among the other charges against Mr. McKee, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported the developer has been accused by the City of St. Louis of being in default of an agreement between the city and Mr. McKee to develop property. The article further states that St. Louis officials believe Mr. McKee’s actions could negatively impact construction of the new NGA-West campus and negatively impact the city’s reputation and bond rating, both of which are important for the development of amenities to support NGA personnel working at the campus. A financial institution linked with Mr. McKee, the Bank of Washington, has filed a counter lawsuit against the city stating that “false representations tricked it into agreeing to release its liens on the NGA property and allowing NorthSide to transfer the TIF revenues to support the project.” The bank’s lawsuit against the City of St. Louis further claims breach of contract over the future development of the NGA site and surrounding area intended to help support employees at the NGA-West campus. I remain greatly concerned that these allegations call into question the fairness of the site selection process. If the North St. Louis bid included lands that were fraudulently acquired, then the bid submitted by St. Clair County, Illinois was unfairly and unjustly undermined. As a sensitive Department of Defense intelligence agency responsible for satellite mapping, NGA performs a critical mission in support of our warfighters. This is why it is especially important that the site location for NGA-West be determined based solely on the merits and with complete confidence in the accuracy of the information at hand. NGA-West employees, our warfighters, and the American taxpayers deserve certainty in knowing that the final NGA-West site chosen has been properly assessed and selected in accordance with the highest applicable standards. Unfortunately, that may not have been the case. As noted by The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in multiple reports, Mr. McKee was allegedly using this tactic for some time and has claimed that without his involvement NGA would not have selected St. Louis to build the new campus. The pending state charges against Mr. McKee have also raised concerns among many of my constituents that the selection of North St. Louis was not made based on an objective basis and raised new concerns that land fraudulently obtained may have been used as part of their application. If true, then the selection process may have been compromised and St. Clair County may not have been competing on an even playing field. Before the final site selection was made, St. Clair County made a truthful and compelling case for why it should be the new home to NGA-West. The security of NGA-West and the neighboring communities is of paramount importance, and St. Clair County more than met the minimum requirements for securing such an important agency. With over 182 acres of property and another 200 acres available for expansion, the costs of any remediation or mitigation required at the St. Clair County site are expected to be minimal. In addition, the county has agreed to pay mitigation and remediation costs. The required Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for NGA-West campus also erred in cost assessments of the two sites, especially given the recent legal battles surrounding the land that NGA-West is planned to be placed upon. The FEIS claimed the cost to acquire and develop the St. Clair County site is almost 20 percent higher than the North St. Louis site. This finding requires a stronger analysis. The St. Clair County site consists of undeveloped or production agriculture lands adjacent to Scott Air Force Base made available by the owner to NGA at no cost. It is shovel ready, with all above and below ground issues requiring mitigation or remediation have been identified and accounted for, again with the site owner willing to donate these costs. St. Clair County officials have indicated to me that the site is still available at the terms previously submitted. The FEIS appears to indicate that the government had questions about the time or cost necessary to remediate the North St. Louis site. This uncertainty has only grown pending the legal issues revolving around Mr. McKee. Nevertheless, the FEIS concludes: “The estimate to acquire and develop the St. Clair County Site is almost 20 percent more, which provides a slight advantage to the St. Louis City Site.” Again, given the above-mentioned factors, along with findings that construction costs for similar projects are on average three percent higher in St. Louis than St. Clair County, the FEIS cost estimate must be reassessed. In closing, I believe the concerns raised more than justify a reconsideration of the decision to make North St. Louis home of the new NGA-West campus. I again urge you to restrict the use of any federally-appropriated funds on the new NGA-West campus until the full scope of Mr. McKee’s alleged crimes are understood, including any impact they may have had on St. Clair County receiving fair consideration during the site selection process. I respectfully request a meeting with you at your earliest convenience to discuss these serious concerns. Thank you for your service and consideration of this request. Sincerely, Mike Bost Member of Congress ###
07.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a $2.27 million Economic Development Administration grant for construction of a new rail line at America’s Central Port in Granite City. The rail construction will enhance the link between area manufactures and the nation’s freight transportation network and boost the region’s economic readiness and competitiveness. “Good news keeps rolling in for Granite City,” said Representative Mike Bost. “In addition to the 800 new steel jobs, this grant will amplify economic growth in Madison County and the Metro East region. America’s Central Port supports over 1,000 jobs and has a massive economic impact. Our community stands to benefit as the port continues to expand through both private investment and grants like this.” Background: The Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant totals $2,272,895. The total project cost is $3,270,000. 16 jobs are anticipated to be created, 32 jobs will be saved, and $1.2 million in private investment is expected to be leveraged because of the grant. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to pass the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, which would have secured the border, provided tools to prevent illegal immigration, and kept families together at the border: “We had a historic opening to pass the most significant border security and immigration reform legislation in years. We could have brought our immigration system into the 21st Century by enhancing border security, preventing illegal immigration, and combatting fraud in our immigration system. We also would have provided certainty under the law by fixing the DACA mess and ensuring families would stay together at the border. This was a missed opportunity to fix an immigration system that both Republicans and Democrats agree is a broken.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Janus v. AFSCME that it is unconstitutional for public employee unions to require collective bargaining fees from workers who choose not to join the union, a major blow for the U.S. labor movement: “As a former union firefighter and the grandson of a United Mine Workers representative, labor is in my blood,” said Bost. “Unions have played an instrumental role in strengthening the hand of America’s working men and women for generations. It is only right that workers who receive higher pay, benefits, and workplace protections contribute their fair share of the costs. While this position may not always be popular in my party, for me it’s one that rises above politics.” # # #
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) Monday night voted with a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass the Blue Water Navy Veterans Act (H.R. 299). H.R. 299 expands benefits for Vietnam Blue Water Navy veterans who are currently suffering from diseases they developed as a result of their service. Specifically, the bill enables veterans who served in the territorial seas of Vietnam during the Vietnam War to receive expedited consideration for Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits if they suffer from diseases the U.S. Government has linked to Agent Orange. “This bill has been decades in the making,” said Bost. “We have almost 100,000 Navy veterans who served on ships during the Vietnam War and later became ill from their service due to exposure to Agent Orange and other herbicides. Unfortunately, they do not qualify for the same benefits as their fellow veterans who served on the ground. This critical legislation ensures they receive benefits for any condition they may have developed as a result of exposure to Agent Orange.” Background: Agent Orange is a herbicide used during the Vietnam era that has been known to be associated with certain health issues in people who have been exposed to the chemical. The Agent Orange Act of 1991 said that if a veteran served in Vietnam between 1962 and 1975 and has a disease that has been associated with exposure to Agent Orange, they are automatically presumed to have a been exposed to it and therefore qualify for disability compensation. The Blue Water Navy Veterans Act of 2018 would extend the presumption of exposure to Agent Orange to veterans who served in the Blue Water Navy. Bill text available HERE. ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for the Agriculture and Nutrition Act (H.R.2), commonly known as the Farm Bill. The House-approved legislation, which authorizes agricultural and nutrition policy for the next five years, includes provisions Bost introduced to aid farmers in Southern Illinois. “Protecting our agricultural economy is essential to the sustainability of our rural areas,” said Bost. “Illinois’ 12th Congressional District is the most diverse in terms of agriculture in the entire state, and I made it a priority to listen to the 10,000 producers in my district so I knew what they needed most. I’m proud of the provisions I fought to have included in this Farm Bill and will continue moving the ball forward until this legislation is signed into law.” Bost Provisions Included in Farm Bill: Section 2502 - Expands options for agriculture producers to access nutrient management technical assistance (Nutrient Management Technical Service Provider Certification Act) Section 5103 - Modernizes Farm Service Agency’s Guaranteed Loan Program (Bale Act) Section 2304 – Improves farmers’ ability to recover nutrients (Nutrient Recovery Systems Amendment) NOTE: A summary of key components in the 2018 Farm Bill is available HERE. ###
06.14.2018	Rep. Bost speaks in support of legislation to fight opioid crisis. Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) voted this week for a series of House bills to help stem the tide of the opioid crisis devastating parts of Southern Illinois and other rural communities across America. In rallying bipartisan support for the legislation, Bost shared the story of Charles “Chaz” Karidis, a 23-year old Madison County resident who lost his battle with a heroin addiction in 2013, and his mother, Kari, who turned the family’s tragedy into a mission to help families and friends of people suffering from addiction. “Kari Karidis’ endless efforts to combat opioid addiction and honor her son’s legacy should be an inspiration to any parent,” Bost said. “There were almost 2,000 opioid overdose fatalities in Illinois in 2016. That’s nearly twice the number of deaths from car accidents. But these aren’t just numbers or statistics. They are moms and dads, sons and daughters, neighbors and friends. I am proud to join Republicans and Democrats this week to pass legislation to fight the opioid scourge that is ravaging our communities. If we work together, we can save lives and continue to restore hope.” Among the legislative measures that passed the House are: The Stop Counterfeit Drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN) Act (H.R. 5228) Provides the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with stronger recall and seizure authority to disrupt the entry of counterfeit and illicit drugs through International Mail Facilities (IMFs). The Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act (H.R. 5752) Streamlines and enhances FDA’s tools to intercept illegal products. Illicit or unapproved drugs enter the U.S. supply chain through IMFs and pose serious public health threats to individuals across the country Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275) Helps pharmacists detect fraudulent prescriptions. Facilitates development and dissemination of materials giving pharmacists greater understanding and ability to decline to fill controlled substances when they suspect the prescriptions are fraudulent, forged, or appear to be for abuse or diversion. BACKGROUND: According to the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), opioid overdoses in Illinois have increased dramatically in recent years. In 2016, there were 1,946 opioid overdose fatalities in Illinois – nearly twice the number of fatal motor vehicle accidents and more than one and a half times the number of all homicides. Much of this can be attributable to the rise of synthetic opioids such as fentanyl and its analogues. Overall opioid overdose deaths increased 82% between 2013 and 2016; during that same period of time, overdose deaths due to synthetic opioids increased tenfold. The overall drug overdose rate in Illinois in 2016 was 18.9 per 100,000 population and ranks 28th in the country. A comprehensive compilation of data on the opioid crisis was release by IDPH in December 2017. ###
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) and the entire Illinois GOP House Delegation sent a letter to President Trump sharing their concerns over White House talks of pardoning and/or commuting the sentence on former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich. After sending the letter, Rep. Bost released this statement: “I served on Illinois' House committee to impeach Governor Blagojevich and I believe that he received the sentence he deserved,” said Bost. “He violated the public trust and is an example of the absolute worst about politics. Granting clemency to Rod Blagojevich could set a very bad precedent regarding public corruption.” The full letter to President Trump is available HERE. ###
06.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives late Wednesday night passed bipartisan legislation to strengthen America’s ports, locks, dams, and water infrastructure. The Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which now heads to the Senate for further consideration, also included an amendment offered by U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) to facilitate the repair of Len Small Levee in Alexander County. “This vitally important legislation helps local communities, like those in Alexander County, recover from flood disasters,” said Bost. “Several thousand acres of infrastructure and agriculture land were destroyed when Len Small Levee gave way 2 years ago. Residents were left in bureaucratic uncertainty as federal agencies calculated whether fixing the levee was worthwhile. This legislation gives a lifeline to rural communities struggling to rebuild after a disaster.” “After the Len Small Levee breached in 2016, land owners dealt with months of flooded land, lost crops and lip service from the Army Corps of Engineers before it became evident that the levee wouldn’t be fixed,” said Richard Guebert, Jr., president, Illinois Farm Bureau. “That’s why we’re pleased to see Rep. Bost’s amendment to the Water Resources Development Act pass today. It gives businesses, farmers and residents some hope that what they’ve spent many years building may be rebuilt in the event of a flood, instead of being washed away and given little thought by the government.” “Rural communities face many unique challenges compared to more urbanized communities, including eligibility for recovery funds following natural disasters,” said Amy Larson, President of the National Waterways Conference. “Congressman Bost’s amendment provides these communities with enhanced options to address the repair and rehabilitation of damaged flood protection works.” BACKGROUND: Under current law, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers can only repair a non-federal levee if the flood protection benefits outweigh the costs. The Bost Amendment allows local sponsors to pay the difference between the cost of repairing a levee and its projected flood protection benefits. The amendment does not increase the federal government’s share of the costs for repairs and is supported by the American Farm Bureau, National Waterways Conference, and the National Association of Flood and Stormwater Management Agencies (NAFSMA). ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a $2.2 million National Science Foundation (NSF) funding award made to Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. The funding will improve educational practices of STEM teacher leaders through engaging activities, targeted mentoring, and a partnership with the Science Center of Carbondale. “This grant is a big win for SIU and for the surrounding community,” said Bost. “It will serve as a vitally important resource to STEM teachers so that our young people today are prepared for the careers of tomorrow.” Through professional development, mentoring, science literacy, and research opportunities, master teaching fellows will lead their schools and districts to improve STEM education for thousands of underserved students in the region. Leadership development will be systematically incorporated into each year of the program with focus on the environment, sustainability, energy, toxicology and waste management. NOTE: More information about this grant can be found HERE. # # #
06.05.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, released the following statement after U.S. Steel announced it would restart its A Furnace at its Granite City Works facility creating 300 new steel jobs. These are in addition to the 500 jobs announced earlier this year when B Furnace was restarted. “It’s fantastic news that U.S. Steel will be adding 300 good-paying steel jobs in Granite City in addition to the 500 jobs announced in March,” said Bost. “These are 300 jobs that allow 300 families to put food on the dinner table, pay the bills, and put some money away for retirement. I’ve been working for years to turn the tide against unfairly imported steel that hurts our local economy and I’m pleased to see policies put in place by the Trump Administration have resulted in such positive developments.” The authority under which the president has imposed steel tariffs is Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. A Section 232 investigation determines whether imports are harmful to national security and whether measures should be taken to protect domestic industries critical to national security. Recent actions taken by Rep. Bost on American Steel: March 8, 2018: Bost Applauds Steel Tariff Announcement March 1, 2018: Bost Applauds Steel Tariff Announcement February 16, 2018: Bost Statement on Commerce Department’s Steel Report February 13, 2018: Bost Takes Plight of Southern Illinois’ Steelworkers to White House December 5, 2017: Bost, Steel Caucus Leaders Meet with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross October 27, 2017: Congressional Steel Caucus Urges President to Complete Steel Imports Investigation ###
05.31.2018	Alton – U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (IL-12) hosted a school safety summit Wednesday with teachers, education professionals, online safety experts, law enforcement, and school resource officers to discuss ways to keep kids safe in and out of the classroom. Bost provided an update on current legislative efforts to curb school violence, protect children online, and combat drug addiction among minors. “As a father and a grandfather, I understand the need to keep kids safe inside and outside the classroom,” said Bost. “Given the variety of potential threats kids face these days, it’s important that we keep an open dialogue. This school safety summit allowed for a frank conversation about ways to protect children from violence at school, online predators, and drug abuse. I can take that feedback back to Congress where I’m working on bipartisan solutions to ensure our nation’s children have a safe environment to grow and learn.” NOTE: Rep. Bost’s bipartisan school safety legislation was signed into law earlier this year. The proposal will help schools acquire panic buttons, offering a more immediate method of notifying law enforcement and first responders in cases of classroom violence, medical emergency, or natural disaster. ###
05.30.2018	Marissa – U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (IL-12) today hosted a “Tailgate Talk” at Otten Farms in St. Clair County. He provided an update on the Farm Bill to Southern Illinois farmers and received feedback on current issues facing the agriculture industry. “These ‘Tailgate Talks’ allow me to get a feel for the challenges our farmers in Southern Illinois are facing,” said Bost. “We had a very frank discussion about trade policy and the pressures they face by declining commodity prices. But the bottom line is we agree that agriculture is vitally important to Southern Illinois and getting a strong Farm Bill through Congress is essential for the wellbeing of our rural economy.” ###
05.24.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The legislation, which sets military policy priorities and determines what types of equipment and weaponry can be purchased, will now be sent to the Senate for further consideration. “I believe government’s first obligation is protecting the safety and security of the American people,” said Bost. “This legislation is vitally important to rebuilding our military, reforming the Pentagon, and providing the necessary resources to our military facilities, like Scott Air Force Base. Months of bipartisan work went into this bill and the product is essential to helping our troops prepare and respond to the complex security challenges we face around the world.” Among the bill’s key provisions, NDAA: Increases base military pay by 2.6 percent; Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Makes major reforms in Pentagon bureaucracy and streamlines buying practices; Supports a defensive and offensive cyberspace strategy; Makes critical investments in missile defense and our nuclear deterrent ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today cosponsored a package of bipartisan bills to help stem the tide of the opioid crisis that is devastating parts of Southern Illinois and other rural communities across America. The legislation includes measures that would crack down on synthetic drug trafficking and bolster drug prevention, treatment and recovery efforts. “Southern Illinois and our nation face a crisis that is ravaging our communities,” said Bost. “Addiction doesn’t care about your race, religion, politics, or how much money you make. It is relentless and nobody can beat it alone. Fighting back against this addiction crisis requires a multi-faceted bipartisan approach. We must find a balance between stopping the flow of drugs into our communities while showing compassion for those suffering with substance abuse.” Among the legislative measures Rep. Bost announced his support for are: The Stop Counterfeit Drugs by Regulating and Enhancing Enforcement Now (SCREEN) Act (H.R. 5228) Provides the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with stronger recall and seizure authority to disrupt the entry of counterfeit and illicit drugs through International Mail Facilities (IMFs). The Stop Illicit Drug Importation Act (H.R. 5752) Streamlines and enhances FDA’s tools to intercept illegal products. Illicit or unapproved drugs enter the U.S. supply chain through IMFs and pose serious public health threats to individuals across the country The Securing Opioids and Unused Narcotics with Deliberate (SOUND) Disposal and Packaging Act (H.R. 5687) Directs the FDA to work with manufacturers to establish programs for efficient return or destruction of unused Schedule II or III opioids. These methods could include mail-back pouches to secure facilities for incineration, or methods to immediately inactivate/render unattractive unused drugs; Facilitates utilization of packaging that will help reduce diversion, overprescribing, or abuse of Schedule II or III opioids; and Requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study new and innovative technologies that claim to be able to safely dispose of opioids and other unused medications. Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275) Helps pharmacists detect fraudulent prescriptions. Facilitates development and dissemination of materials giving pharmacists greater understanding and ability to decline to fill controlled substances when they suspect the prescriptions are fraudulent, forged, or appear to be for abuse or diversion. Access to Telehealth Services for Opioid Use Disorder (H.R. 5603) Instructs CMS to evaluate the utilization of telehealth services in treating substance use disorder. Background: According to a report published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in December 2016, “the ongoing epidemic of opioid deaths requires intense attention and action. In a November 2016 report, the Drug Enforcement Administration referred to prescription drugs, heroin, and Fentanyl as the most significant drug-related threats to the United States.” From 2014 to 2015, the death rate from synthetic opioids other than methadone, which includes Fentanyl, increased by 72.2%, and heroin death rates increased by 20.6%. Rates of death involving heroin and synthetic opioids other than methadone increased across all demographic groups, regions, and in numerous states. There is an urgent need for a multifaceted, collaborative public health and law enforcement approach to the opioid epidemic, including expanding Naloxone distribution, among other recommendations. ###
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today released the following statement after the U.S. Treasury Department officially certified 327 low-income census tracts in Illinois to be designated as federal “Qualified Opportunity Zones,” including over a dozen in Southern Illinois. “These Economic Opportunity Zones are vitally important for creating jobs and growing the economy in areas that need it most,” said Bost. “Tax reform passed by Congress does more than just provide a $2,200 tax cut for typical Southern Illinois families; it also gives hope to areas that could use a boost to get on their feet through private investment.” Congress established the program in the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act to encourage long-term investments in low-income urban and rural communities nationwide through preferential tax treatment. These incentives can be used to help finance commercial and industrial real estate, housing, infrastructure, and current or start-up businesses. The program uses low-income community census tracts as the basis for determining areas eligible for Qualified Opportunity Zone designation. An interactive map of Illinois Opportunity Zones is available HERE. FAQs about Opportunity Zones are available HERE. ###
05.22.2018	Rep. Bost speaks in support of the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act WASHINGTON, DC - A bipartisan bill authored by U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) to ensure our nation’s veterans receive the same annual cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) as Social Security recipients passed the U.S. House of Representatives Monday evening. The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act (H.R. 4958) would increase the rates of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities beginning December 1, 2018. “This vitally important bipartisan legislation financially protects the veterans who protected us,” said Bost. “Many disabled veterans and their families depend on their veterans benefits to pay for things like food and medicine. For many of these veterans, these vitally important payments allow them can keep their heads above water. I appreciate my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this legislation to extend a lifeline to our nation’s heroes. I encourage the U.S. Senate to take up this legislation as soon as possible.” The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018 The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018, introduced by DAMA Chairman Bost would provide a cost-of-living increase for wartime disability compensation; compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation in uniform. This increase would begin December 1, 2018. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON - United States Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to pass the 2018 Farm Bill. The comprehensive legislation would authorize policy under the purview of the United States Department of Agriculture and is renewed every 5 years. “There’s no other way of putting it - Washington politicians failed our farmers today,” said Bost. “I came here to get work done for the people of Southern Illinois and I’m outraged that some folks chose to play politics rather than provide our farmers, ranchers, and producers the certainty they deserve. Protecting our agricultural economy is essential to the sustainability of our rural areas, and it is absolutely shameful that anyone would vote to derail this bill simply to score cheap political points.” ###
05.18.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) today introduced bipartisan legislation to reform hiring for Human Resources positions at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) facilities. The VA Hospitals Establishing Leadership Performance (HELP) Act instructs the VA to establish qualifications for each HR position within the VHA and establish standardized performance metrics similar to the private sector. HR departments at the VA currently have no such requirements. “Our heroes deserve to receive the best care possible when they return from their service,” said Bost. “After reports surfaced of mismanagement and veterans receiving poor treatment at VA hospitals, I went to work with Rep. Sinema on the bipartisan VA HELP Act. Our bill ensures VA hospitals hire to the highest possible standard to make certain our heroes get the best quality care.” “Caring for our veterans is one of our most important obligations,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “Our bill helps bring some needed accountability to the VA to ensure we attract and retain employees with the passion, talent, and commitment necessary to serve our veterans. I am proud to work across the aisle with Congressman Bost to improve care for the brave men and women who have worn the uniform.” Background: The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has published a report identifying serious human capital challenges and flaws within VA’s Human Resources operations that hamper VA’s ability to effectively serve veterans. ###
05.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a $210,000 Economic Development Administration grant for the development and implementation of a comprehensive economic development strategy for the region served by the Southwestern Illinois Metropolitan & Regional Planning Commission. The resulting strategy will bring together the public and private sectors in the creation of an economic development roadmap to diversify and strengthen the regional economy. “This grant is a great sign for jobs and economic growth in St. Clair County and the Metro East region,” said Bost. “The grant will help kick start collaboration between local government and job creators in the private sector that will ultimately result in more jobs and economic growth.” Background: The Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant totals $210,000. The total project cost is $420,000. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today issued the following statement after President Trump announced his intentions to remove the United States from the Iran nuclear deal. “The nuclear agreement with Iran was fundamentally flawed from the beginning,” said Bost. “It trades temporary restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program for permanent sanctions relief in the hope that the biggest financiers of terror in the world would somehow change their ways. The recent revelation of Iran’s secret nuclear weapons archive clearly proves that the regime had a comprehensive program to design, test and build a nuclear weapon. The nuclear deal simply allows the regime to wait out the temporary restrictions before restarting their weapons program.” # # #
04.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation by a vote of 393 to 13 that reforms the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), strengthens passenger protections, and improves America’s long-term stability and competitiveness. Included in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4) were Bost’s amendments directing the Department of Transportation to better comply with “Buy America” requirements and encouraging colleges and universities to partner with aviation companies to promote careers in the industry. “When American taxpayer dollars are being spent, an effort should be made to spend those in support of American workers,” said Bost. “As we grow our economy and rehabilitate our nation’s infrastructure, more must be done to ensure that Buy American preference laws are applied to these projects.” “We applaud Representative Bost for his efforts to make Buy America more transparent. Our nation’s airports should be constructed using American-made steel,” said Scott Boos, Senior Vice President, Alliance for American Manufacturing. “Domestic content requirements were created by Congress to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent at home, and to preserve jobs and American ingenuity. The Lipinksi/Bost amendment to the FAA reauthorization bill ensures accountability to these laws by making the federal procurement process more transparent. It reinforces a commitment to sustaining and creating manufacturing jobs through the reinvestment of American taxpayer dollars,” said Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO, AISI. “Aviation and aerospace are vitally important to the economies of Southern Illinois and the broader United States,” said Bost. “By encouraging collaboration between educational institutions like SIU Carbondale and the aerospace industry, we can create more jobs and lay the groundwork for a stronger workforce of tomorrow.” ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, welcomed more than 50 veterans from Southern Illinois to Washington, DC. The visit was coordinated by Honor Flight of Southern Illinois, a non-profit organization dedicated to providing all veterans who apply a free trip to Washington to visit memorials honoring their service and sacrifice. “Americans owe a debt of gratitude to our nation’s bravest individuals – those who have served in defense of freedom and liberty,” said Bost. “As a country, we must remember the sacrifices of our veterans who have bravely served our nation. I always look forward to welcoming veterans to Washington as part of the Honor Flight program. It’s an opportunity to say thank you.” Honor Flight is dedicated to honoring our veterans with a free trip to Washington to visit their monuments and memorials. The one-day trip to Washington consists of visits to the National WWII Memorial and Korean War Memorial. Additional stops at other monuments and memorials may also be included. Veterans pay no costs for the trip. Veterans Honor Flight of Southern Illinois covers airfare, bus fare, entry fees, food, and supplies. ###
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) ranked among the top 13% in the House of Representatives for bipartisanship, according to the Lugar Center, led by former U.S. Senator Richard Lugar, and the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University. The Bipartisan Index measures how often a member of Congress introduces bills that succeed in attracting co-sponsors from members of the other party, and how often they in turn co-sponsor a bill introduced from across the aisle. “I’ve always strived to work with other members of Congress—regardless of party—to do what is best for the residents of Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “In fact, every bill I’ve introduced this Congress has had bipartisan support. Three of those bills have been signed into law. It’s easy for some folks to talk about the need for bipartisanship, but it’s something else to legislate that way.” “Members of Congress, from the most progressive to the most conservative can score well on the Index if they dedicate themselves to seeking bipartisan support for their own legislation and give fair consideration to a variety of legislative initiatives,” said Lugar Center President Richard G. Lugar, who served for 36 years as a senator from Indiana. The Index is based on a formula applied uniformly to all members. No subjective judgments are made about individual members or bills. BPI rankings are available HERE. ###
04.23.2018	WASHINGTON – The International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA) announced today that U.S. Representative Mike Bost has been named a recipient of the 2018 Thomas Jefferson Award. The bi-annual award recognizes legislators whose voting record indicates strong support of policies that enable the U.S. foodservice distribution industry to create well-paying jobs, grows their businesses, and contribute to their local communities. “Our favorite restaurants in Southern Illinois couldn't serve their customers without the foodservice distributors working to ensure access to a safe and efficient food supply,” said Bost. “I’m proud to receive the Thomas Jefferson Award and will continue to support policies in Congress that create jobs and also ensure a safe, efficient food supply.” “The foodservice distribution industry plays a vital role in our economy and culture, providing pay and benefits well above the national average,” said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. “Congressman Bost recognizes the important contributions of this industry and his continued support is to be commended.” With a combined annual sales volume of almost $300 billion, foodservice distributors play a crucial role in our nation’s infrastructure. The industry ensures a safe and efficient supply chain of food and products for more than one million restaurants and foodservice outlets in the U.S. every day. The program was introduced in 1992 and was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his first inaugural address said, “A wise and frugal government … shall leave men … free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government.” # # #
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement on Tax Day: “Taxes and celebration usually don’t go in the same sentence, but this year is different,” said Bost. “This is the last year for Americans to file their federal tax returns under our old, outdated tax code. Starting in 2019, Tax Day will reflect the historic tax cuts we passed late last year. The savings are significant. A typical family of four in Southern Illinois will see a tax cut of $2,232. Less money taken out of your paycheck means more money freed up to provide for your family and invest in your future.” # # #
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today issued the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan announced his intentions to retire at the end of his current term in Congress: “Speaker Ryan led the People’s House through impactful times, including passage of historic tax reform legislation that will benefit working families for years to come. As a father and a grandfather, I appreciate his desire to spend more time with his children. I don’t know what his future holds after this year, but I’m confident he will continue seeking opportunities to serve his country no matter where he lands.”
04.06.2018	CARBONDALE – United States Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) along with Illinois State Senator Paul Schimpf (IL-58), State Senator Dale Fowler (IL-59), Representative Terri Bryant (IL-115), Representative Dave Severin (IL-117), and Representative Natalie Phelps-Finnie (IL-118) urged caution regarding a recent proposal to swiftly move more than $5 million in funds from Southern Illinois University’s Carbondale (SIUC) campus and divert the money to the University’s Edwardsville campus. “The Carbondale campus is currently working through the first steps of a reorganization that has not really been given a chance to start working,” said Bost. “I’m concerned there is a push to make a quick decision to divert funds from Carbondale to Edwardsville by a Board of Trustees that currently has a vacant seat. We’re talking about moving a lot of money out of Carbondale’s economy. I think we should slow down, study this, and at the very least have a fully-slated Board of Trustees before making such a vitally important decision.” “Although I support evaluating and potentially updating the funding ratio between the two universities, any such change should only occur after a careful study, conducted in a process that has the support of the full board of trustees,” Schimpf said. “The current proposal is scheduled to go before an incomplete Board of Trustees, without the benefit of outside, impartial study, at a time when SIUC is in the midst of a reorganization. I urge the University President and the Chair of the Board of Trustees to rethink their decision to press ahead with this vote.” “I do not oppose coming together to take a closer look at where funds are currently being allocated and exploring the possibility and consequences of adjusting the funding ratio between SIUC and SIUE. However, I will not support pushing through a funding shift that would have lasting negative consequences on SIUC’s future, the community and the region as a whole,” said Sen. Fowler (R-Harrisburg). “This is a decision that will require careful consideration and demands input from the SIUC community, weighing the impact such a cost shift would have on staffing, future enrollment and the surrounding economy. I encourage the Board to postpone their vote, ensure the community has a voice in this decision and move forward in a cooperative and thoughtful manner.” “I share my constituents’ concerns that a major diversion of funding from SIUC to the Edwardsville campus will hurt the local and regional economy,” Bryant said. “This move would further downgrade the capabilities of the University to be the world class research facility and economic engine that we need in southern Illinois. The jobs that could be lost due to this funding plan will hurt the Carbondale economy and losing more programs at SIUC will only make the problem of dropping enrollment worse.” “I have been concerned at the speed with which major step was proposed and brought forward for consideration,” Severin said. “We are urging that the full Board of Trustees be seated before taking any action on any reallocation plans. I am calling on the Board to slow down and study this from every angle. SIU Carbondale is an economic driver for the region and we need to protect it and continue to work to grow enrollment.” “Southern Illinois University - Carbondale has been the cornerstone of education and research as well as the economic engine for Southern Illinois for many years. Shifting money to the Edwardsville campus is not the best way forward for the SIU system. Southern Illinoisans cherish the Carbondale campus as a part of their lives and as part of the town’s iconic history, and our entire economy is heavily dependent upon its success. We need to find a better way to increase funding and reestablish SIU-C as the educational beacon that attracts our own students, as well as those from across the United States,” said Rep. Natalie Phelps Finnie, D-Elizabethtown. Each of the legislators is encouraging their constituents to contact them to share their own opinions on this critical issue for southern Illinois. ###
03.29.2018	Sparta, IL – Today, Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) visited the Walmart Supercenter in Sparta, where he met with employees as part of a “Take Your Congressman to Work Day” event. Walmart is one of hundreds of companies that gave hourly-wage employees bonuses and wage increases because of the new tax law. “Our 'Take Your Congressman to Work Day' program is a fun way to highlight the great work Southern Illinois' job creators like Walmart are doing to grow our local economy," said Rep. Bost. "This is a great way to get feedback from my constituents and hear about the challenges and opportunities they face at work. I was especially pleased to hear about the many benefits employees are seeing due to tax reform, including higher wages and bonuses. That’s what tax reform is about for me – helping working families in Southern Illinois to get ahead.” “It was great having Rep. Bost here as part of his ‘Take Your Congressman to Work Day’ program,” said Brea Rosson, Store Manager of the Walmart Supercenter. “We were able to show him exactly what our employees do on an everyday basis and chat about the new tax reform law. Our store has seen the direct benefits: 71% of our employees have received a bonus and 60% of our employees have received a wage increase. All of this is due to the new tax reform law.” ###
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) was given the Guardian of Seniors' Rights award from the 60 Plus Association for his commitment to the elderly. On behalf of the American Association of Senior Citizens, 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin was on hand at an event in the Nation’s Capital to present Representative Bost with the award. “It’s vitally important that we keep the promises we have made to our senior citizens,” said Bost. “This is one the highest responsibilities of representing Southern Illinois in Congress. Preserving Social Security and Medicare and placing our country back on a fiscally responsible track are critical not only for today’s seniors, but also for future generations.” In a statement released by 60 Plus Association, spokesman and noted American singer Pat Boone remarked, “I’m still singing at concerts, but today I’m singing the praises of Rep. Mike Bost. Seniors can depend on Mike Bost.” “The Guardian Award is given to members in appreciation of their tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens, as so many of our elderly struggle on a fixed income,” said 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin. “Seniors have to live within their means and so should our government. Rep. Bost will fight to end the 'Death Tax,' which negatively impacts small businesses, farmers and ranchers throughout the Nation. We also particularly appreciate the efforts by Rep. Bost to assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare. That’s why Representative Bost has earned the Association’s highest award, and it’s my honor to personally present it.” # # #
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, a bipartisan proposal focused on improving school safety introduced by U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) was signed into law by President Donald Trump as part of the omnibus spending bill. The legislation will help schools acquire panic buttons, offering a more immediate method of notifying law enforcement and first responders in cases of classroom violence, medical emergency, or natural disaster. “As a former first responder, I know response time is vitally important during emergency situations,” said Bost. “Seconds, let alone minutes, can mean the difference between life and death. We have panic buttons in banks, office buildings, and retail locations, there is no reason we shouldn’t have them at our schools to protect our children. I’m proud to see this bipartisan, commonsense proposal to protect our kids signed into law.” “We have a fundamental responsibility to protect our children and young people where they learn,” said Schneider. “I am proud to see our bipartisan legislation become law and offer schools an additional layer of security in emergency situations. This should be just the start of our work here in Congress on solutions to reduce gun violence and improve student safety, and will continue to push to build on this progress in the days ahead.” Last week, Bost and Schneider both spoke on the House floor in support of the measure. Videos of Schneider’s remarks and Bost’s remarks are available online. In January, the Securing Our Schools legislation was endorsed by the National Sheriffs’ Association and the National Education Association. # # #
03.23.2018	Belleville, IL—Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, “16” by Reed Absher of Marion High School. Selected by an independent panel of local judges, Reed’s artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. “Congratulations to Reed Absher for winning this year’s competition,” said Bost. “Each talented Southern Illinois student who participated submitted their own vision of “Illinois’ Bicentennial: 200 years of artistry. The results were amazing. We commend Reed and thank all the students who put the time and thought into creating such incredible works of art. Thank you also to the parents and art teachers who pushed them to do their best and ensured they reached this point.” Bost also directed 12th District residents to visit the 2018 Congressional Art Competition photo album at www.facebook.com/repbost to select their favorite piece of art. ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for a funding package that keeps the federal government operating through the remainder of the current fiscal year, which ends in September. The bipartisan legislation – which passed the House with a 256-167 bipartisan majority – includes Rep. Bost’s legislation to help schools acquire and install panic buttons for alerting law enforcement to incidents of classroom violence. “This legislation makes significant reforms that are win-wins for Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “This legislation represents significant progress in our efforts to combat the opioid epidemic, strengthen our military, rebuild our aging infrastructure, and improve school safety. I am pleased that we’ve come together to provide a sense of certainty for our military members and hardworking families in Southern Illinois at a time they need it most.” Important measures included in the FY 2018 Omnibus package: Fights the opioid epidemic with largest investment to date Rebuilds U.S. military and fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for the troops Investment in school safety efforts and mental health training programs Improves the nation’s aging infrastructure through transportation, energy, water, and cyber projects Fixes the ‘grain glitch’ (Sec 199A of the Tax Code) to provide an equitable solution for the agriculture community. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Mike Bost, Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus, presided over the caucus’s annual hearing. The hearing brought together executives of leading steel companies from across the country and the union representing American steelworkers to discuss legislative issues impacting the industry. “Steel is a critical industry to the American economy and national security, but it’s in crisis,” said Bost. “Market distorting policies by foreign actors have resulted in a flood of unfairly traded imports to the United States. Many of these steel products are sold at less than their fair market value. The President’s decision to invoke Section 232 may help our steel producers battle against illegal foreign trade practices. As we heard from our witnesses this morning, our national security is clearly dependent on a strong American steel industry. A weak domestic steel industry leaves our defense vulnerable to the economic interests of other nations.” ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congress passed a bipartisan proposal introduced by U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) to help schools acquire and install panic buttons for alerting law enforcement to incidents of classroom violence. Introduced in January, Bost and Schneider’s legislation was incorporated into H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act, a broader package aimed at addressing school safety, which passed the House today by a vote of 407-10. “As a former first responder, I know response time is vitally important during emergency situations,” said Bost. “We have panic buttons in banks, office buildings, and retail locations, there is no reason we shouldn’t have them at our schools to protect our children. I’m proud the House passed this bipartisan, commonsense proposal I worked on with Representative Schneider to protect our kids.” “Representative Bost’s work on the STOP School Violence Act improved this legislation and will help make our communities safer,” said Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. “By including his SOS Act in the final bill that passed the House today, schools will have critical resources to improve safety and put them in more direct and discreet contact with local law enforcement in an emergency. Mike deserves a lot of credit for his work to make American schools safer.” “We have a responsibility to protect our children and young people where they learn,” said Schneider. “I am proud of the bipartisan support Congressman Bost and I have built together for the Securing Our Schools Act, and am very pleased this commonsense idea has now passed the House. This should be just the start of our work here in Congress on solutions to reduce gun violence and improve student safety, and I look forward to building on this progress in the days ahead.” Bost and Schneider’s bill, titled the Securing Our Schools Act, has over 50 bipartisan cosponsors, including Illinois Reps. Rodney Davis (R-IL), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). It also has the support of the National Sheriffs’ Association and the National Education Association. ###
03.08.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced a 25 percent tariff on foreign steel imports: “U. S. Steel’s decision to begin calling 500 employees back to work in Granite City is directly tied to this decision,” said Bost. “I am pleased that the president has heard my call, and the call of our steelworkers, to bring these jobs back. This action will address the global glut in steel and other unfair foreign trade practices that have cost our economy jobs and imperiled our national security,” The authority under which the president imposed these tariffs is Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act. A Section 232 investigation determines whether imports are harmful to national security and whether measures should be taken to protect domestic industries critical to national security. The Commerce Department report summarizing findings from its Section 232 investigation was delivered to the President on January 11, 2018. The Administration had 90 days following the delivery of the report to decide on any potential action. Recent actions taken by Rep. Bost on American Steel: March 1, 2018: Bost Applauds Steel Tariff Announcement February 16, 2018: Bost Statement on Commerce Department’s Steel Report February 13, 2018: Bost Takes Plight of Southern Illinois’ Steelworkers to White House December 5, 2017: Bost, Steel Caucus Leaders Meet with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross October 27, 2017: Congressional Steel Caucus Urges President to Complete Steel Imports Investigation ###
03.08.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), along with a bipartisan group of House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs members introduced legislation to prevent misuse of VA’s purchase cards. “This vitally important legislation not only punishes bad actors at the VA who misuse funds, but also will prevent future misuse of taxpayer dollars,” said Bost. “We can’t always predict bad behavior, but we can put in place systems that lessen taxpayer exposure to it.” The Veterans Affairs Purchase Card Misuse Mitigation Act The Veterans Affairs Purchase Card Misuse Mitigation Act would prevent misuse of purchase card spending by requiring the VA Secretary to revoke the purchase card from any employee who is found to have knowingly misused their card or approval authority. This safeguard would prevent further misuse of government funds while existing penalties, ranging from suspension to demotion to removal, are considered for the wrongdoer. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. ###
03.07.2018	CARBONDALE – U.S. Representative Mike Bost and the Illinois Department of Transportation today announced a $7.6 million federal TIGER grant awarded to add lanes and help ease the flow of traffic in an often-congested, 5-mile stretch of Interstate 57 between Johnston City and Pond Creek. The project will greatly enhance safety while improving the flow of commerce in an important part of Illinois. “This grant is truly a win-win,” said Bost. “It not only will improve safety along a dangerous stretch of highway between Marion and Mt. Vernon, but also has the potential to lead to economic development around Benton and other points in between.” “These improvements will have a huge impact on the safety, reliability and efficiency on a key segment of I-57,” said Gov. Bruce Rauner. “Working with our federal and local partners, we are making travel safer and creating economic development in southern Illinois.” “Interstate 57 is critical to the economy of our state and a major reason why Illinois is the freight capital of the Midwest,” said Illinois Transportation Secretary Randy Blankenhorn. “We are pleased that this overdue project can proceed.” The funds will be used to add a new lane in each direction, resurface existing lanes and install new pavement markings, rumble strips, guardrails and median barriers to prevent crossover crashes. The interstate is vital to the nation’s freight network. Approximately 39,300 vehicles travel I-57 through Williamson and Franklin counties each day, nearly a third of which is truck traffic. That number can surge to more than 65,000 vehicles a day during high-travel periods in the summer, causing traffic backups that spill onto surrounding local roads and creating gridlock throughout the region. Improving this stretch of I-57 will greatly boost safety while enhancing the flow of commerce. The grant is being funded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. The total estimated cost of construction is $12.7 million. Construction is to begin in Spring 2019 and end in late 2020. # # #
03.07.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, released the following statement after U.S. Steel announced it will restart one of two blast furnaces (“B” blast furnace) and the steelmaking facilities at its Granite City Works plant. The company anticipates calling back approximately 500 employees beginning this month. The restart process could take up to four months. “This is a big victory for the hardworking steel families in Granite City and the entire Metro East economy,” said Bost. “I was heartbroken by the plant’s idling. Not only did I hear you, I took your fight to the Halls of Congress to combat unfair and illegal trade practices that have hurt American steelworkers. Through bipartisan legislation, we empowered the Department of Commerce to help American companies and workers respond rapidly to illegally-traded imports, but more needed to be done. That’s why I helped advance efforts for the Section 232 investigation and took the case of Southern Illinois’ steelworkers directly to President Trump as he was deliberating its findings and recommendations. But we’re not done. We still have more work to do, because I have no doubt in my mind that the American steelworker is second to none when competing on equal footing.” “Congressman Bost has been a champion for battling unfair trade and reviving steelmaking at Granite City,” said U. S. Steel President and Chief Executive Officer David B. Burritt. “He’s been a vocal, aggressive leader for America’s steel industry. We appreciate his advocacy throughout the Trump Administration’s Section 232 national security investigation of steel imports.” In its announcement, U.S. Steel specifically cited trade remedies resulting from findings in a Department of Commerce Section 232 investigation. The purpose of the Section 232 investigation is to determine whether imports are harmful to national security and whether measures should be taken to protect domestic industries critical to national security. The Commerce Department report summarizing findings from the Section 232 investigation was delivered to the President on January 11, 2018. The Administration had 90 days following the delivery of the report to decide on any potential action. Recent actions taken by Rep. Bost on American Steel: March 1, 2018: Bost Applauds Steel Tariff Announcement February 16, 2018: Bost Statement on Commerce Department’s Steel Report February 13, 2018: Bost Takes Plight of Southern Illinois’ Steelworkers to White House December 5, 2017: Bost, Steel Caucus Leaders Meet with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross October 27, 2017: Congressional Steel Caucus Urges President to Complete Steel Imports Investigation ###
03.01.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced a 25 percent across-the-board tariff on foreign steel imports: “I’m very encouraged by President Trump’s critically important decision,” said Bost. “As the Department of Commerce Section 232 investigation indicated, the domestic industry has suffered greatly at the hands of global steel overcapacity and unfair trade, which threatens our national security interests. We’ve seen the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry right in Madison County, with the idling of Granite City Works and layoffs at Alton Steel. Today’s announcement is a bold step forward to stop unfair trade practices so American steelworkers can continue to make American steel that supports our military, critical infrastructure, and the livelihoods of American families.” The purpose of the Section 232 investigation is to determine whether imports are harmful to national security and whether measures should be taken to protect domestic industries critical to national security. The Commerce Department report summarizing findings from the Section 232 investigation was delivered to the President on January 11, 2018. The Administration had 90 days following the delivery of the report to decide on any potential action. Recent actions taken by Rep. Bost on American Steel: February 16, 2018: Bost Statement on Commerce Department’s Steel Report February 13, 2018: Bost Takes Plight of Southern Illinois’ Steelworkers to White House December 5, 2017: Bost, Steel Caucus Leaders Meet with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross October 27, 2017: Congressional Steel Caucus Urges President to Complete Steel Imports Investigation ###
02.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after President Trump announced he has directed the Department of Justice to propose regulations that would ban bump stocks, devices that allow semi-automatic to be modified to shoot hundreds of rounds per minute: “The president is correct in moving to regulate bump stocks,” said Bost. “That’s why I joined with other Members of Congress last year in requesting the Trump Administration look into these devices. Bump stocks were specifically designed to get around federal law—in place since the 1930s—that prohibits fully automatic weapons. It’s possible to find commonsense solutions to reduce the likelihood of tragedies while also preserving the constitutional rights of law-abiding Americans.” NOTE: Representative Bost joined with other Members of Congress in October 2017 in urging the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to re-evaluate bump stock compliance with federal law. # # #
02.16.2018	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement today after the U.S. Commerce Department announced findings from its investigation into whether foreign-made steel imports threaten U.S. security: “These findings show that America’s steel industry is not only integral to our economy, but is vitally important to our national security as well,” said Bost. “As the report notes, steel produced by ‘operated integrated steel mills,’ such as U.S. Steel’s Granite City Works facility, is ‘especially important’ to our national security needs. Yet the amount of domestic steel produced by raw materials has fallen by half since 2000. Beyond the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry – most recently in Granite City – overreliance on foreign steel could seriously weaken our nation’s economy and security, especially in a national emergency. I will continue to work with U. S. Steel and its workers to find a solution that brings jobs back to the plant.” “New technologies and practices have made it possible to produce more domestic oil and natural gas. Granite City Works has capability to serve this industry. The United States should maximize the job creating potential of this bounty,” added Bost. Background: The Commerce Department began an investigation in April 2017 into whether foreign-made steel imports threaten U.S. security. The study considered overcapacity, dumping, illegal subsidies, and other factors, to determine whether steel imports threaten to impair ‘national security.’ The Department of Commerce’s report finds that imports threaten to impair national security, and makes three specific recommendations the President may take. The Administration has until April 11, 2018 to render a decision. The President may choose one of the recommendations, a modification of the recommendations, or decide to take no action. ###
02.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) and Representative Darren Soto (D-FL) introduced bipartisan legislation, the Nutrient Management Technical Service Provider Certification Act, to expand options for agriculture producers to access nutrient management technical assistance. This bill would allow qualified individuals, including Certified Crop Advisors or Certified Agronomists, to act as Technical Service Providers for nutrient management. The Nutrient Management Technical Service Provider Certification Act is supported by The Fertilizer Institute, Agricultural Retailers Association, Land O’ Lakes, American Society of Agronomy, and the Illinois Fertilizer & Chemical Association. “Our bipartisan bill cuts red tape and gives our farmers more resources to improve soil quality,” said Bost. “The Department of Agriculture has said that it lacks the manpower to provide technical assistance to farmers trying to implement nutrient management practices. I appreciated working with Rep. Soto on a solution that expands options for farmers seeking technical assistance related to these practices.” “I’m proud to work with Rep. Bost in support our nation’s farmers. Currently, in Florida, we only have access to six USDA certified Technical Service Providers (TSPs) for nutrient management – with only four of them actually located in the state. This legislation will help to expand access for our Florida farmers who use fertilizers to obtain professional technical assistance,” stated Rep. Soto. “Agribusiness retailers’ commitment to professionalism is evidenced in their decision to employ agronomists who have achieved the CCA or CPAg certification,” said TFI President, Chris Jahn. “USDA recognition of these agronomists as Technical Service Providers is a win-win for farm profitability and the environment.” “Agricultural retailers serve as trusted advisors to farmers. Streamlining the certification process for agricultural retailers to achieve technical service provider status will allow farmers, retailers, and NRCS to better communicate and collaborate, as well as improve conservation planning, soil health and nutrient stewardship initiatives and efforts,” said Agricultural Retailers Association President and CEO Daren Coppock. “CCAs and CPAgs have met the standards for agronomy knowledge, experience and ethics set by the American Society of Agronomy. They are a trusted farm adviser in agronomic practices and inputs. We are very excited to see them recognized for their professional expertise in this bill,” said American Society of Agronomy spokesman Karl Anderson. Background: The demand for the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) conservation technical assistance and the financial incentives provided by farm bill conservation programs is at an all-time high. The natural resource concerns and regulatory challenges our farmers face are also growing and use of conservation practices, like the 4Rs (Right Place, Right Rate, Right Source, and Right Time) are being widely implemented across farm country. Increasing the engagement of the private sector in conservation delivery can help with this demand on capacity and resources. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) utilizes Technical Service Providers (TSPs), which are either individuals or businesses with technical expertise in conservation planning that help producers achieve conservation goals. The current certification process can be time consuming, expensive, and duplicative to many trained conservation professionals and proves to be an impediment to the private sector’s desire to become a TSP. ###
02.13.2018	Rep. Bost discusses with President Trump the harm of unfair trade practices on American steel jobs. Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus, joined a select, bipartisan group of lawmakers at the White House to meet with President Donald Trump about steel trade policy. The administration is currently reviewing recommendations from the Department of Commerce following its investigation into the national security implications of unfairly traded foreign steel imports. Bost detailed the negative impact that these imports have had on Granite City Works, which temporarily idled operations in 2015 and laid off over 2,000 employees. “American steel jobs are at risk due to global competitors who refuse to play by the rules”, said Bost. “We’ve seen the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry right in Madison County, with the idling of Granite City Works and layoffs at Alton Steel. That’s why it’s vitally important for President Trump to take action to ensure U.S. companies and workers have the ability to compete on an even playing field. I have no doubt in my mind that the American steelworker is second to none when competing on equal footing.” The purpose of the Section 232 investigation is to determine whether imports are harmful to national security and whether measures should be taken to protect domestic industries critical to national security. The Commerce Department report summarizing findings from the Section 232 investigation was delivered to the President on January 11, 2018. The Administration has 90 days following the delivery of the report to decide on any potential action. # # #
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which averts a government shutdown, protects our economy from a dangerous debt default, strengthens our national security, and repeals Obamacare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). Additionally, the legislation provides funding to support National Institute of Health (NIH) research, combat opioids and support mental health programs, reduce the VA healthcare maintenance backlog, and invest in infrastructure. “This legislation isn’t perfect, but it averts a government shutdown, protects the economy from debt default, and provides certainty to our troops and our seniors,” said Bost. “While these are all good things, we can’t keep governing from short-term crisis to short-term crisis. I’m ready and willing to work with anyone, regardless of party, to provide better certainty to the American people.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 provides the following: Prevents a dangerous default that would threaten our economy—increases the debt ceiling through March 1, 2019; Strengthens our national security and protects our troops—increases the spending cap by $165 billion for the Department of Defense over the next two years; Protects Seniors from Obamacare—repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB): 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats with the power to mandate drastic cuts to Medicare NOTE: Late last year, Representative led a group of over 20 members in urging Speaker Paul D. Ryan to incorporate language to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) into must-pass legislation. More information on this effort is available HERE. ###
02.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) and Congresswoman Cheri Bustos (IL-17) introduced a bipartisan bill that would create a Conservation Assistance Loan program, modeled after the existing Marketing Assistance Loan. The program would offer loan rates that better reflect current market conditions, bolster the loan rate for new and beginning farmers, and provide a new incentive to help interested farmers voluntarily adopt practices like cover crops to improve soil health. “I’m happy to join this bipartisan effort to ensure our farmers have every tool available to improve soil health and reduce nutrient runoff,” said Bost. “Cover crops, along with cutting edge technology, benefit the environment, the bottom line of the farmer, and allow for this generation of agriculture producers to pass along the land in better condition than when they received it.” “The Conservation Assistance Loan Act would create a new tool to help Illinois farmers improve soil health and reduce nutrient runoff while still putting the best food on your table,” Congresswoman Cheri Bustos said. “Farmers are stewards of the land – it is where they live, work, and raise their family. Most farmers I talk to want to use cover crops and take other steps to be more sustainable and improve soil health, but face challenges that can make it tough to get started. The Conservation Assistance Loan Act would help them overcome these challenges and improve both their operation and land.” Specifically, the Conservation Assistance Loan Act would: Base conservation assistance loan rates on 60% of the 5-year Olympic Moving Average (5YOMA) of the Marketing Year Average (MYA) prices. Bolster the loan rate to incentivize conservation or soil health best practices like cover crops. Offer a higher loan rate to beginning farmers to help them start their operation. The bill is endorsed by the Illinois Farm Bureau. Cover crops are one of the best ways to improve soil health and reduce nutrient runoff. They prevent soil erosion, cut fertilizer use, and protect water quality. According to a recent survey of producers using cover crops from USDA’s Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program, more than 86% of respondents reported improved soil health and reported average yield increases for corn were estimated at 2.3 bushels and 2.1 bushels for soybeans. While an increasingly popular practice, the financial, labor and technical expertise required to plant and manage cover crops poses a major barrier to getting started. Though their benefits are well-documented, returns on the investment are not immediate as the improvements in soil health and yields take time. The Conservation Assistance Loan Act would help farmers overcome these obstacles making it easier to use cover crops and improve soil health. ###
02.07.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) Chairman Mike Bost (IL-12) introduced the bipartisan Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018 to provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to veterans. “I’m proud to carry this bill to provide important cost-of-living adjustments to our nation’s veterans and their dependents,” said DAMA Subcommittee Chairman Bost. “It’s vitally important that we ensure the men and women who have served our nation receive the benefits they have earned. We need to get this legislation through Congress and to the President to provide certainty to our nation’s heroes.” “Ensuring our heroes’ benefits keep pace with the rising cost of living is the least we can do for them,” said DAMA Subcommittee Ranking Member Esty. “With a cost-of-living adjustment, we were able to put more dollars in the hands of the men and women who served our nation and their families on a bipartisan basis last year, and I am hopeful that we will be able to do it again in 2018. I appreciate Chairman Bost’s leadership, partnership, and commitment on this vital issue.” The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018 The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2018, introduced by DAMA Chairman Bost would provide a cost-of-living increase for wartime disability compensation; compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation in uniform. This increase would begin December 1, 2018. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. ###
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union address to a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday evening: “I appreciate President Trump using his address to highlight some of the work he and Congress are pursuing to empower America’s families and job creators. Particularly important to Southern Illinois has been the new tax reform law that will give hardworking families more money in their pockets to spend on a child’s education, growing a small business, or saving for the years ahead. But we still have plenty of work to do, starting with fixing our broken immigration system and bringing our crumbling infrastructure into the 21st Century. I am committed to finding common ground with anyone, Republican or Democrat, to build a bright future for Southern Illinoisans.” ###
01.29.2018	O’Fallon, IL – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) is pleased to invite all high school students from Illinois’ 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982, the event is a nationwide annual art competition that allows high school students from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories to showcase their artistic ability. “This is a great opportunity for our young people to showcase their talent while highlighting the history of Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “I always look forward to seeing the impressive artwork produced by the incredibly talented high school students here in Southern Illinois.” The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in our Congressional District. The theme of this year’s competition is “Illinois’ Bicentennial: 200 Years of Artistry.” The winning artwork from our District's competition will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Additionally, the winner and a guest will be invited to attend a reception in Washington D.C., where they will be escorted on a tour of the U.S. Capitol. Judging is performed by members of the local art community. Submissions will be accepted in Congressman Bost’s O’Fallon District Office through March 6, 2018. Further information about the program, including guidelines and student release forms that are required in order to participate in the 2018 competition, can be found on Congressman Bost’s website or by calling his office at (618) 622-0766. ###
01.24.2018	WASHINGTON – House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Jack Bergman (R-MI) and Representative Mike Bost (R-IL) called on U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs Secretary David Shulkin to make changes in the Human Resources department at the Marion VA Medical Center. “Our heroes deserve the best care possible, and unqualified leadership in the HR department at Marion prevents that from happening,” said Bost. “That’s why I have appealed directly to the VA Secretary to get an HR team in place at Marion that can clean up the mess. We’ve heard stories of grossly inconsistent salaries among staff, low morale, and a lack of proper training and discipline. Serious HR changes need to be made, and fast. Our veterans deserve better than this.” "Effective leadership can only be achieved by assembling a qualified team with a defined objective,” said Bergman. After months of investigations conducted by the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, it has become clear that the Marion VA Medical Center’s HR department has failed to meet its core missions. Secretary Shulkin has begun the important task of changing the culture within VA, which is why Congressman Bost and I have appealed to him directly seeking immediate change in the facility’s HR department. By putting in place a highly motivated and effectively led HR department, the Marion VA will be able to provide Veterans with the quality and timely care they have earned." The full text of the letter is available here and below: January 23, 2018 Via Electronic Transmission Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write to you to express our deep concerns regarding the strength of the Human Resources (HR) Department at the Marion, Illinois VA Medical Center (VAMC). The Veterans’ Affairs Committee’s investigative work has uncovered numerous, systemic issues that plague VA health systems. A persistent root cause of issues like prolonged difficulties recruiting and retaining staff, failures to track and enforce training standards, and the inability to discipline misbehaving employees is an absence of strong HR leadership and staff. The issues facing the Marion VAMC are of a similar nature. Staff consistently voice concerns about inconsistencies in pay scales and grade; a chronic confusion about processes for disciplining employees; and high employee turnover and vacancy rates. Furthermore, Committee investigators found that Marion fails to track employee no-show rates and disciplinary actions, despite the chronic recruitment and retention issues that face the medical center. The Committee knows conclusively that these issues persist, despite our and our staff’s candid information sharing with you personally, as well as VAMC and VISN leadership. Without a strong leader, the current status quo within Marion HR will continue to impact the organization’s culture and productivity. However, the Committee found that Marion’s long-time HR Chief has no college degree, raising concerns that his educational foundation is insufficient to carry out his role and responsibilities as the head of HR. We strongly encourage you to take the necessary steps to review and improve the HR department at the Marion VA and throughout the VA system. We voice these concerns in a letter because we are sincerely invested in the well-being of both Marion’s veterans and employees. This medical center is at a crossroads: Marion’s dysfunctions have been exposed for all to see, and subsequently the facility has received significant attention and support from the VISN, VA Central Office, and congressional stakeholders to improve operations and move forward. But bettering and maintaining the quality of services Marion provides requires that the medical center improve the culture of its workforce. This, in turn, necessitates an educated, competent, and respected HR Chief. Without such a leader in place, we fear Marion will continue to have issues recruiting and retaining a quality workforce. Given these serious concerns, Committee staff will be in contact to schedule a briefing to discuss specific personnel actions that have taken place at the Marion VAMC since their investigation. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to have your staff contact Jon Hodnette, Majority Staff Director, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, at (202) 225-3569. Sincerely, JACK BERGMAN MIKE BOST Chairman Chairman Subcommittee on Oversight and Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Investigations Memorial Affairs ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for a short-term funding package that will keep the federal government operating through February 8th and extends funding for the state Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. The funding measure, which was passed earlier in the day by the U.S. Senate, now goes to the President’s desk for his signature. “I’m pleased the Washington Democrats stopped their senseless shutdown,” said Bost. “It was bad for kids on the CHIP program, bad for military personnel, bad for our seniors, and bad for federal employees in Southern Illinois. And for what? They played politics over an immigration measure that has nothing to do with funding the government. Either way, we can now provide six years of certainty to the nearly 20,000 children who rely on CHIP in my district and spend the next two weeks ensuring we don’t have another shutdown-for-show on February 8th.” # # #
01.20.2018	Washington, DC — Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation today released a statement urging Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth to re-open the government by supporting the House-passed funding bill. The Illinois senators supported a filibuster late last night that led to the government shutting down. The following statement was made by U.S. Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Rodney Davis (IL-13), John Shimkus (IL-15), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), and Darin LaHood (IL-18): “Last night, Senators Durbin and Duckworth put their party’s leadership over the priorities of Illinois by voting to shut down the government. They voted against our military, against long-term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and against keeping our government open. Their actions have endangered funding for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the middle of a nation-wide flu epidemic. Senator Durbin once said shutting down the government is ‘cowardice,’ but now he is leading the charge with Senator Schumer for this shutdown over a deadline for DACA that is more than a month away. We are asking Senators Durbin and Duckworth to vote on the substance of the bill; we are asking them to vote to reopen the government up immediately. Holding the government hostage over unrelated issues that we have all committed to addressing is no way to govern.” ###
01.19.2018	Washington, DC — Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation today released a statement urging Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth to end their filibuster threat and allow a vote on the funding bill passed by the House last night. The following statement was made by U.S. Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13), John Shimkus (IL-15), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), and Darin LaHood (IL-18):“Yesterday, we voted for a bill to fund and keep open the government, fund our military, and fully fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. Now, Senators Durbin and Duckworth must do their job. Conversations are ongoing to find a solution for DACA before the March deadline, but government funding and CHIP deadlines are now. Delaying the continuing resolution only delays negotiations on a DACA fix. Our Senators should end their filibuster threat and instead, allow a vote to ensure our troops are paid and certainty is given to the 325,990 children who rely on CHIP in Illinois.” ###
01.17.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) introduced the bipartisan Securing Our Schools (SOS) Act establishing a pilot program through the Department of Justice (DOJ) to make panic buttons more available to local school systems. The legislation is supported by the National Sheriffs Association and the National Education Association. “Response time is vitally important during emergency situations, and the SOS Act provides life-saving technology to contact first responders immediately when these incidents take place at schools,” said Bost. “This serves as both a deterrent from and front-line response to situations that place children and educators in harm’s way. As a father and a grandfather, I’m working to ensure our nation’s children are provided with a safe environment to grow and learn.” “Every parent should have the confidence when they send their child off to school that he or she will return safely home,” said Schneider. “The bipartisan Securing Our Schools Act will improve the ability of educators to notify first responders in the event of an emergency to better protect the security of students, teachers, and faculty. I’m pleased to partner with Congressman Bost on this commonsense legislation to improve school safety and look forward to building support in the days ahead.” “On behalf of more than 3,000 elected sheriffs, the National Sheriffs’ Association is proud to endorse the Securing Our Schools Act,” said Jonathan F. Thompson, Executive Director and CEO. “In a time when schools are vulnerable to threats, this bill helps law enforcement work effectively and efficiently to protect lives. I applaud the bipartisan efforts of Congressmen Bost and Schneider and look forward to working with them to ensure passage of this key legislation.” Background: The SOS Act would provide a more immediate method of notifying law enforcement and first responders in case of a medical emergency, active school shooter incident, or natural disaster. The legislation would authorize the DOJ to offer grants to local school districts for buying and installing SOS buttons in classrooms. Each grant awarded under the program would cover 75% of equipment purchase and installation costs (up to $200,000). School districts would provide the remaining 25% in matching funds. # # #
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) met with U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to discuss efforts to transition military veterans into the agricultural workforce. Bost, a member of both the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and the House Committee on Agriculture, was accompanied by a bipartisan group for the Capitol Hill meeting. “There’s no more dedicated workforce in the entire world than our returning military men and women,” said Bost. “We’ve got a huge shortfall in the agricultural workforce, and we have veterans leaving military service looking for employment. I discussed with Secretary Perdue ways to kill two birds with one stone, offering our heroes a new career path while helping farmers and ranchers fill jobs and expand their operations. I think we’re on the same page here and I look forward to turning these discussions into further legislative action.” Background: According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), nearly 45 percent of veterans come from rural America. Over the next 20 years, it is projected that our nation will need 700,000 new agricultural workers. Last year, Rep. Bost introduced H.R. 4339, the Veterans’ Agricultural Apprenticeship Act, which instructs the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture to work with state departments of agriculture to identify farmers and ranchers eligible for a direct loan to train apprentice veterans in their industry. Veterans would receive direct, on-the-job training and, in return, farmers and ranchers would get help with their operations with little cost to them. The loan would be paid back to the USDA after the harvest season. ###
01.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the list of 21 Southern Illinois students who he has nominated to the United States service academies, including the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. A congressional nomination is the first step in a process toward the students’ acceptance into a military academy. “Southern Illinoisans should be proud of each one of these students who represent the best our state has to offer,” said Rep. Bost. “I was honored to personally notify each and every one of these exceptional students this past week. I’m proud that Southern Illinois produces some of the brightest young people in this country to lead a new generation. Because of the commitment they have already shown, I thank them for their patriotism and leadership in the years to come.” A reception will be hosted by Rep. Bost’s office in the coming weeks in honor of the nominees. The following students were nominated by Rep. Bost based on their academic performance, extracurricular activity in their communities and personal recommendations: St. Clair County Kersten Douglas of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Gavin Green of Belleville has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jared Dalanzo of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Samuel Kelly of Mascoutah has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Clayton Bonitati of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Connor Gaby of Freeburg has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Stephanie Jacobs of Belleville has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Ryan Culley of Swansea has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Christopher Wu of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Nathan Burton of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. John Leshikar of Shiloh has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Grant Engel of Swansea has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Grant Appel of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Joel Lindsey of O’Fallon has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Madison County Zachary Kincade of Wood River has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Jackson County Joshua Loyd of Carbondale has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Connor Rogers of Carbondale has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Williamson County Malachi Williams of Marion has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Victoria Mueller of Johnston City has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Sean Spoerre of Carterville has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jefferson County Kadin Asbery of Mount Vernon has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. # # #
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today released the following statement after the House passed the final version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the biggest reform of America’s tax code in 31 years: “There were two major things that I wanted to accomplish for Southern Illinois through tax reform: growing jobs and growing paychecks. This tax reform bill paves the way for both. We’ve reformed the tax code to let working families keep more of their paycheck to spend as they see fit. Whether that be saving for college, raising a family, or preparing for a rainy day, I trust the taxpayers to keep a closer eye on their hard-earned dollars than any Washington bureaucrat ever will. We’ve also taken steps to encourage businesses large and small to expand operations at home and invest in the American worker.” For individuals and families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Doubles the standard deduction from $6,500 to $13,000 for individuals and $12,000 to $24,000 for married couples. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Doubles the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000. Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs). Preserves the mortgage interest deduction. Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21%– down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. # # #
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Steel Caucus Chairman Mike Bost and other caucus leaders today met with U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to discuss the ongoing Section 232 investigation assessing the impact of steel imports on our national security. “Secretary Ross and I had a frank discussion about the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry, like the idling of Granite City Works in Madison County,” said Bost. “I strongly urged Secretary Ross to conclude the investigation as soon as possible so action can be taken to protect the American steel industry. Secretary Ross assured me that the investigation will conclude very soon. We are on the same page that every day that goes by is another day that our steelworkers face unfair trade practices from countries like China.” Background: A Section 232 investigation is conducted by the Department of Commerce under the authority of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. The purpose of the investigation is to determine the effect of imports on America’s national security. In October of this year, Representative Bost led a letter from the Congressional Steel Caucus to President Trump in support of the ongoing Section 232 investigation. The letter is available here. ###
11.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today led a group of over 20 members in sending a letter urging Speaker Paul D. Ryan to incorporate language to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) into must-pass legislation by the end of the year. If implemented, the IPAB would make recommendations regarding cuts to Medicare with no Congressional oversight or opportunity for judicial or administrative review. “An unelected board in Washington should not be making decisions on cutting Medicare spending for seniors,” said Bost. “That’s why I brought together nearly two dozen members from across the country in an effort to encourage leadership to repeal IPAB by the end of the year. It’s important that we let the American people know we are accountable to them, not a bunch of unaccountable bureaucrats.” Text of the letter is available here and below. Dear Speaker Ryan: Earlier this month of H.R. 849, the Protecting Seniors Access to Medicare Act, was an important victory for America’s seniors. This was not the first time the House has passed a measure repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), but it did have the largest bipartisan support to date, 307-111. With that margin, the House is clear in its message, that IPAB is one of the most harmful provisions of the Affordable Care Act and must be repealed. It is particularly important that this repeal occur before IPAB is triggered into action by Medicare spending projections and initiates the process of arbitrary cuts – diminishing, in the process, Congress’s role in Medicare policymaking – and undermining access to quality healthcare for millions of seniors and individuals with disabilities. Our concern is that the Senate may not take up the IPAB repeal in its current form. Not only are there scheduling issues, given the number of large-scale legislative measures and need to confirm a large number of executive nominees, but also the repeal of the IPAB in the Senate has not been as bipartisan as we accomplished in the House. In the Senate, Republicans and Democrats have separate IPAB repeal pieces of legislation, as opposed to the single bill in the House. We believe the IPAB repeal is too important to our constituents to languish. We request that the language passed in bipartisan fashion by the House be incorporated into a legislative vehicle that must move this year from the House to the Senate and be signed by the President. This would ensure IPAB repeal, which has strong bipartisan support in the House and majority support in the Senate, and allow us to honor our commitment to prevent some of the harmful effects of the Affordable Care Act. Sincerely, # # #
11.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after the House adopted a resolution requiring all members and staff to complete mandatory training on anti-harassment policies and workplace rights:“From Hollywood to the newsrooms to the boardrooms, many American workplaces have been shaken in recent weeks by reports of sexual harassment. Congress, sadly, is no different. As a husband, a father and a grandfather, I would be furious to hear one of my children or grandchildren were made to feel unsafe or intimidated in their work environment. This type of conduct is simply unacceptable, and I’m pleased the House is taking steps to decrease the chances it ever happens again.” ###
11.29.2017	Washington, DC — Today, Republican Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation responded to letters they received last week from Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth concerning tax reform and the impact on middle-income families. The following letter was sent by U.S. Reps. John Shimkus (IL-15), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Mike Bost (IL-12), and Darin LaHood (IL-18): Dear Senators Durbin and Duckworth, We are writing to address your recent letter to Republican members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation. The massive 32 percent state income tax hike that was forced onto families earlier this year by Democrats in the Illinois General Assembly hurt the residents in our districts and across the state deeply. We have seen the negative impact these high taxes have had on our state’s economy and Illinois families. Now, we are coming together at the federal level to create a more competitive tax code and give middle-income families the tax relief they deserve. The nonpartisan Tax Foundation projects that under H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Illinois will see an estimated 37,010 jobs added and an after-tax income gain of $2,333 for middle-income families as a result of this legislation. The Chief of Staff for the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation recently testified before the Ways and Means Committee that on average at every income level there will be a tax cut. In your letter, you list deductions for medical expenses and state and local income and property taxes – as you are aware, the majority of middle-income taxpayers in Illinois see no benefit from these deductions, which are only available to those who itemize. However, lowering rates and doubling the standard deduction allows individuals to save a greater amount than they currently do even with the student loan deduction. From businesses on Main Street to middle-income families across our great state, everyone deserves a tax code that rewards hard work by allowing them to keep more money in their paychecks. We urge you to reject the status quo and do what’s right for hardworking taxpayers in Illinois. We encourage you to work with your colleagues to address any concerns you may have as they craft the Senate bill and we hope you will support these efforts to reform our tax code. Middle-income families deserve to keep more of what they earn and we are committed to lowering taxes for these families. By lowering rates, doubling the standard deduction, and increasing and expanding the child tax credit, the data clearly shows the majority of middle-income families in Illinois will receive a tax cut under H.R. 1. We hope you will work with us to put an end to a tax system that benefits the wealthy over the middle-class. We look forward to working with you to get a bipartisan tax reform bill to President Trump’s desk. Sincerely, ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today released the following statement after the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Southern Illinois’ hardworking middle-class families deserve a break. We need more jobs, higher take-home pay, and greater opportunity to get ahead. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is focused on empowering middle-class working families by delivering more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger take-home pay. For the 78% of tax filers in Illinois’ 12th Congressional District who currently take the standard deduction, you will see an average $1700 more in your pocket after taxes. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act gives you the breathing room you need to save for college, help raise a family, or prepare for a rainy day. When given the chance, I have no doubt you’ll keep a closer eye on your hard-earned dollars than any Washington bureaucrat ever will.” For individuals and families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to zero, 12 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6 percent for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Eliminates special-interest deductions that increase rates and complicate Americans’ taxes – so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Establishing a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts so Americans can continue to save for their future. Retains the adoption tax credit. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20 percent – down from 35 percent, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25 percent – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. # # #
11.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded House approval of the 21st Century Flood Reform Act (H.R. 2874), which passed with a 237-189 bipartisan majority. The bill improves the financial stability of the National Flood Insurance Program, increases the role of private markets, and ensures more accurate mapping and flood risk estimates. The legislation now moves to the Senate for consideration. “The federal flood insurance program needs real reforms that strengthen the program so property owners have affordable and reliable flood insurance options when they need it,” said Bost. “Because of inaccurate FEMA flood maps, I’ve heard from residents and municipalities across Southern Illinois that are rightfully upset. They are trapped into paying premiums for flood insurance they will never use or paying thousands of dollars out-of-pocket to appeal the map’s accuracy. That’s not right, and it’s why I’m proud to support efforts to create more accurate mapping and to empower property owners and local governments to challenge inaccurate flood maps in an affordable way.” # # #
11.14.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The compromise legislation between the House and Senate, known as a conference report, sets military policy priorities and determines what types of equipment and weaponry can be purchased. The NDAA is expected to be passed by the Senate shortly and sent to the President’s desk for his signature. “I’ve long said that government’s first obligation is to protect the safety and security of the American people,” said Bost. “This legislation is vitally important because it strengthens our military, provides our troops a pay raise, bolsters missile defense, and drives innovation in military technology to secure our global advantage. Also, it continues our bipartisan tradition of supporting the brave men and women of our Armed Forces.” Among the bill’s key provisions, NDAA: Increases base military pay by 2.4 percent; Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Modernizes our nuclear weapons stockpile, missile defense, and military vehicles; Supports a defensive and offensive cyberspace strategy; Improves the military health care system; and Continues funding and support for U.S. military and intelligence operations abroad, including combatting Russia and defeating ISIS. ###
11.09.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Al Lawson (D-FL) introduced bipartisan legislation to make more United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) apprenticeships available to veterans. The Veterans’ Agricultural Apprenticeship Act instructs the USDA to work with state departments of agriculture to identify farmers and ranchers eligible for a direct loan to train apprentice veterans. The loan would, in turn, be paid back to the USDA after the harvest season. “Our bipartisan bill provides a common sense solution for helping our farmers and ranchers fill jobs and expand their operations, while offering our veterans new skills and a potential career path after their service,” said Bost. “Representative Lawson and I sit right next to each other in the House Agriculture Committee, we both have rural economies in our districts, and we both know there’s no more dedicated workforce than our returning military men and women. I’m proud to carry this bill right before Veterans Day to give a hand up to our returning heroes.” “Our bill helps prioritize veterans by getting them the on-the-job training they need to be successful in farming,” said Rep. Lawson. “This program also ensures that veterans have access to quality jobs when they return home, and helps to feed our country.” According to the USDA, nearly 45 percent of veterans come from rural America. Over the next 20 years, it is projected that our nation will need 700,000 new agricultural workers. # # #
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressional Steel Caucus Co-Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL), Co-Chairman Rick Crawford (R-AR), and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), sent a letter to President Trump that urged him to defend the American steel industry and its workers during his visit to China. Specifically, the letter urges the President to address the issues of chronic global steel overcapacity, illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises, and other trade distorting practices that have injured the American steel sector. The letter states that American steelworkers are constantly threatened by the unfair trade practices of China and that we cannot compete against China when they do not follow trading norms. The letter further asks that the President raise these issues with Chinese government officials and defend the American steel industry, which is essential to our country’s national economy and our national security. The full text of the letter is available below. Dear President Trump: We write today as leaders of the Congressional Steel Caucus to request that you defend the American steel industry and its workers during your upcoming visit to China and address the issues of chronic global steel overcapacity, illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises, and other trade distorting practices that have injured the American steel sector. These issues pose an existential threat to the American steel industry. American steelworkers are constantly threatened by the unfair trade practices of China. Today, China produces more steel than every other country in the world combined and contributes over half of the 700 million metric tons of global steel overcapacity. We know that America makes the most innovative and cost effective steel in the world, but we cannot compete against China when they do not follow trading norms. For years, China has stated that it will work to address the issue of steel overcapacity by imposing capacity reductions, however those words continue to ring hollow. Over the past two years, through the G-20 Global Steel Forum and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Steel Committee, global negotiators have worked to remedy the overcapacity crisis. However, despite the good efforts of these government negotiators there has not been meaningful reform. Instead, steelworkers and their families struggle each day to fight back imports which are eroding the industry and their lives. The rapid growth of the Chinese steel overcapacity is directly tied to the proliferation of illegal government subsidies and state-owned enterprises. It is estimated that 95 percent of steel produced by the top 20 Chinese steel groups comes from state-owned enterprises. Further, China has consistently sold products at less than fair market value to offload their overcapacity to other countries. The Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) have consistently taken corrective actions by imposing steep antidumping (AD) and countervailing (CVD) duties, sometimes in excess of 200 percent, on Chinese steel products that were found to be traded unfairly. Unfortunately, often times when these companies and their workers receive relief from the AD/CVD orders, the damage has already been done. China must do more to address these issues and ensure that their steel producers are operating by fair market principles. In your discussions during your visit with Chinese government officials, we respectfully ask that you not only raise these issues but defend the American steel industry, which is essential to our country’s national economy and our national security. Sincerely, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN)
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today released the following statement after the release of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Southern Illinois’ middle-class families deserve a break. We need more jobs, higher take-home pay, and greater opportunity to get ahead. That’s why we went to work on a plan that simplifies the code and gives average working families a $1,200 tax cut. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act gives you the breathing room you need to save for college, help raise a family, or prepare for a rainy day. When given the chance, I have no doubt you’ll keep a closer eye on your hard-earned dollars than any Washington bureaucrat ever will.” For individuals and families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to zero, 12 percent, 25 percent, and 35 percent so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6 percent for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Eliminates special-interest deductions that increase rates and complicate Americans’ taxes – so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Establishing a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts so Americans can continue to save for their future. For job creators of all sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20 percent – down from 35 percent, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25 percent – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. # # #
10.27.2017	Washington, DC – Congressional Steel Caucus Co-Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL), Co-Chairman Rick Crawford (R-AR), and Vice-Chairman Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), along with 65 other members of the Caucus, sent a letter to the President expressing support for the Section 232 investigation assessing the impact of steel imports on our national security. Specifically, the letter states that the investigation must be completed as soon as possible because each day that passes is another day that the domestic steel industry faces an onslaught of imports and the deeply harmful effects of unfair trade practices. The letter strongly urges the administration to release the report as expeditiously as possible so that action can be taken to protect the American steel industry and defend America’s national security. Complete list of cosigners and full text of the letter is available below. Dear Mr. President: We write as members of the Congressional Steel Caucus to reiterate our support for the Section 232 investigation assessing the impact of steel imports on our national security. We are grateful that you have undertaken this critically important investigation since it is imperative that our nation’s military, energy, and other critical infrastructure continue to be built with American steel. We appreciate your dedication to the well-being of the domestic steel industry, and encourage the Section 232 report to be released as expeditiously as possible. American steel is used in aircraft carriers, armored vehicles, submarines, refineries, power plants, highways, bridges, dams, reservoirs, and hospitals. It is responsible for protecting our brave service members every single day and allows our military to respond to outside threats. Without American steel, the Department of Defense would be forced to rely on foreign imports, which could become extremely dangerous during a national emergency or military conflict. Therefore, a robust domestic steel industry is absolutely critical to our national security. As you highlighted when you initiated this investigation, and as the Steel Caucus well knows, the domestic industry has suffered greatly at the hands of global steel overcapacity and unfair trade. Yet, our conventional trade laws, while offering some relief, have failed to keep up with these illicit, and indeed destructive, practices. There are currently more than 700 million metric tons of global steel overcapacity, which amounts to more than eight times the output of all American steel producers. Furthermore, this year, steel imports have been up 21 percent over the same period in 2016, and in September alone, the U.S. imported over 3 million tons of steel. This continued crisis has caused layoffs and mill idling throughout the country, including in many of the communities we represent. Action must be taken to stop this unfair trade so that American steelworkers can continue to make American steel that supports our military, critical infrastructure, and the livelihoods of innumerable American families. Each day that passes is another day that the domestic steel industry faces an onslaught of imports and the deeply harmful effects of unfair trade practices, which is why we believe the investigation must be completed as soon as possible. We strongly urge your administration to release the report as expeditiously as possible so that action can be taken to protect the American steel industry and defend our national security. We thank you for your leadership in addressing the threats faced by the American steel industry, and we stand ready to continue to support this investigation and preserve the fundamental and strategic importance of our domestic steel industry to America’s national security. Sincerely, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN) Rep. Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL) Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH) Rep. Jack Bergman (R-MI) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) Rep. Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) Rep. André Carson (D-IN) Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA) Rep. James E. Clyburn (D-SC) Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) Rep. Warren Davidson (R-OH) Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-IL) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA) Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) Rep. John Katko (R-NY) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL) Rep. Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI) Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL) Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Richard M. Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) Rep. Keith J. Rothfus (R-PA) Rep. John Rutherford (R-FL) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA) Rep. Terri A. Sewell (D-AL) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-NY) Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL) applauded the unanimous Senate passage of legislation he authored to provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to veterans. Bost introduced the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 (H.R. 1329) in March and helped guide it to passage in the House this summer. The legislation is expected to be signed into law by President Trump next week. “I applaud Republicans and Democrats in the Senate for passing this critical legislation,” said DAMA Subcommittee Chairman Bost. “I’m proud to carry this bill to provide important cost-of-living adjustments to our nation’s veterans and their dependents. It’s vitally important that we ensure the men and women who have served receive the benefits they have earned. We need to get this legislation to the President’s desk for signature as quickly as possible.” Background: The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 will provide a cost-of-living increase for wartime disability compensation; compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation in uniform. This increase is set to begin December 1. ###
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – The bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus today announced that Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) and Rick Crawford (R-AR) will lead the Congressional Steel Caucus as Co-Chairmen. Representative Pete Visclosky (D-IN) will continue to serve as Vice-Chairman of the caucus, which was founded in the early 1970s to promote the health of the domestic steel industry and its workforce. “I am honored to serve as co-chair for the bipartisan Congressional Steel Caucus, where we’ve got a new platform to fight for our steelworkers and American-made jobs,” said Bost. “Steel is a backbone of the U.S. economy, generating 10,000 jobs in Illinois and nearly 140,000 nationwide. But these jobs are at risk due to global competitors who refuse to play by the rules. That’s why I’ve led the charge to strengthen our trade remedy laws and better ensure proper application of ‘Buy American’ preference laws, ensuring U.S. companies and workers have the tools to preserve jobs here at home. I’m excited to work with Republicans and Democrats on the caucus to provide real results for an industry that deserves it.” Thomas J. Gibson, president and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI), today applauded the announcement of and Mike Bost (R-IL) as the new co-chairmen of the Congressional Steel Caucus: “Congressman Bost has been a leader in the fight to level the playing field for domestic steelmakers. He lead the effort to enact the first improvements to our trade laws in more than 20 years, and has consistently stood up for American workers whose jobs are put at risk by global competitors who skirt trade laws. His long-standing commitment and dedication to steel has been key in promoting more fair competition for the American steel industry.” ###
10.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 2142, the International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology (INTERDICT) Act, a bipartisan bill to combat the opioid epidemic. The legislation provides the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) enhanced chemical screening devices and scientific support to detect and intercept fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. The bill passed the House 412 to 3 and now heads to the Senate for further consideration. “Opioids kill more people in Illinois than homicides and car crashes and drugs like fentanyl are responsible,” said Bost. “Fighting the opioid epidemic is not simply about fighting addiction. It’s also about saving lives by keeping poison like fentanyl from getting into the United States and reaching our community. We have a lot of work still to do, but the bipartisan bill passed today is a step in the right direction.” Specifically, the INTERDICT Act: Ensures that CBP will have additional portable chemical screening devices available at ports of entry and mail and express consignment facilities, and additional fixed chemical screening devices available in CBP laboratories. Provides CBP with sufficient resources, personnel, and facilities — including scientists available during all operational hours — to interpret screening test results from the field. Authorizes — based on CBP guidance — the appropriation of $15 million for hundreds of new screening devices, laboratory equipment, facilities, and personnel for support during all operational hours. Legislative text for H.R. 2142 is available HERE. Background: Fentanyl is a deadly synthetic opioid that can be up to 50 times stronger than heroin and 100 times stronger than morphine. Although pharmaceutical fentanyl can be misused, most fentanyl deaths are linked to illicitly manufactured fentanyl and illicit versions of chemically similar compounds known as fentanyl analogs. According to the Illinois Department of Health, overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids, which include fentanyl, increased by 80% from 2013 to 2014. The primary source of fentanyl is outside of the United States, in Mexico or China. The drug is smuggled across the U.S. border or delivered via mail or express consignment couriers. Fentanyl can also be ordered online. Due to its potency, fentanyl typically comes in small amounts, making it more difficult for authorities to detect. # # #
10.20.2017	O’Fallon, IL - U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced his staff will hold Mobile Office Hours throughout Illinois’ 12th Congressional District during the month of November. Staff will be available to assist residents who have questions regarding veterans’ benefits, Social Security, Medicare, student loans, and other federal programs. Appointments are encouraged, but not required, and can be made by calling Rep. Bost’s Carbondale office at (618) 457-5787. Constituents who are not able to attend Mobile Office Hours are encouraged to visit the Services section of Representative Bost's website at www.bost.house.gov/services. ** Due to the confidential constituent services that are discussed during Mobile Office Hours, these meetings are not open to the media. Franklin County: Date: Tuesday, November 7 Time: 10:00am -12:00pm Location: West Frankfort City Hall 110 N Jefferson St, West Frankfort, IL 62898 Date: Thursday, November 16 Time: 10:00am-12:00pm Location: Benton City Hall 1403 South Main, Benton, IL 62812 Perry County: Date: Wednesday, November 8 Time: 1:00pm -3:00pm Location: DuQuoin City Hall 302 E Poplar St, Du Quoin, IL 62832 Pulaski County: Date: Wednesday, November 15 Time: 10:00am-12:00pm Location: Mounds City Hall 204 Main St, Mound City, IL 62963 Randolph County: Date: Wednesday, November1 Time: 1:00pm-3:00pm Location: Red Bud City Hall 200 E Market St, Red Bud, IL 62278 Date: Wednesday, November 8 Time: 10:00am-12:00pm Location: Chester City Hall 1330 Swanwick St, Chester, IL 62233 Date: Thursday, November 30 Time: 1pm-3pm Location: Sparta City Hall 112 W Jackson St, Sparta, IL 62286 St. Clair County: Date: Monday, November 6 Time: 10am-12pm Location: Mascoutah City Hall 3 W Main St, Mascoutah, IL 62258 Date: Monday, November 6 Time: 1pm-3pm Location: Lebanon City Hall 312 W St Louis St, Lebanon, IL 62254 Union County: Date: Wednesday, November 15 Time: 2:00pm - 4:00pm Location: Anna City Hall 103 E Market St, Anna, IL 62906 Williamson County: Date: Tuesday, November 7 Time: 2:00pm-4:00pm Location: Carterville City Hall 101 S Division St, Carterville, IL 62918 Date: Thursday, November 16 Time: 1:00pm - 3:00pm Location: Marion Carnegie Library 206 S Market St, Marion, IL 62959 ###
10.19.2017	Washington, DC - Representatives Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13) and John Shimkus (IL-15) today sent a letter to Amazon encouraging the company to consider the Metro East region as a viable site for its second corporate headquarters. “We believe that the St. Louis region exceeds the prerequisites set forth by Amazon for its new headquarters,” said Bost. “Our community is home to a large, urban population with access to multiple modes of transportation, a world class, educated workforce, and a vibrant cultural life. It was important that we lay a marker down and do our part in ensuring that Amazon understands just how beneficial this partnership can be.” In their letter, the Southern Illinois members stated, “The St. Louis region offers a unique opportunity and locale for the HQ2. With its thriving population and outstanding educational institutions, the region offers a highly-skilled and motivated talent pool of potential employees. As pointed out in the application, the St. Louis region currently has about a 1.3 million person labor force with many individuals coming from institutions of higher learning located in the region. It also highlights the fact that the area is home to 80,000 specialized STEM occupations and Scott Air Force Base, which attracts highly qualified cyber and IT employees.” The full text of the letter is available here. ###
10.10.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today released the following statement applauding EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s decision to repeal the Obama Administration’s power plant regulations. “The Obama Administration’s addiction to over-regulation threatened to wipe out hundreds of jobs in Southern Illinois and many thousands nationwide,” said Rep. Bost. “The impact of such a serious hit to the coal industry led to unpredictable home energy prices for hardworking families already struggling to get ahead. I applaud the administration’s decision to secure the reliability and resiliency of America’s electrical grid.” To view the full text of the EPA’s rule, click here. # # #
10.05.2017	Washington, DC – Following the October 2nd concert shooting in Las Vegas, U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) signed a letter with other Members of Congress to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) urging a thorough re-evaluation of bump-stocks—devices reported to have been used by the perpetrator to dramatically increase the discharge rate of his firearms as he carried out the attacks. “As we mourn the victims and pray for the families of the Las Vegas attacks, we must resist the urge to retreat to our ideological corners as a response,” said Bost. “Now is the time for common sense solutions, not political finger-pointing. Reports indicate the shooter may have utilized a bump-stock device to modify a semi-automatic firearm into what is effectively a fully-automatic weapon. As the investigation into the tragedy continues, it’s critical that the ATF closely re-evaluates the impact of these devices and whether they violate federal law.” The letter reads as follows: The Honorable Thomas E. Brandon Acting Director Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives 99 New York Ave NE Washington, DC 20226 Dear Acting Director Brandon, On the morning of October 2, we were shocked and appalled to awaken to news of the horrific events that occurred during the night at a concert in Las Vegas. As a nation, we mourn the loss of life, we condemn the senseless and evil attack on these innocent victims, and we praise the brave actions by our first responders and bystanders alike. As members of Congress, however, it is our responsibility to examine this situation to determine what actions, if any, may be taken as an appropriate response to this national tragedy. We recognize that it is impossible to prevent tragedy—we cannot stop evil in its many forms, and we cannot gauge the level of hate in someone’s heart. But we can come together to find commonsense ways in which to blunt the damage these evildoers are able to inflict upon other citizens while ensuring protection of individuals’ civil liberties and rights under our Constitution. Reports in the aftermath of this tragedy indicate that the perpetrator may have used a commercially available mechanism to modify the rate at which his weapons were able to discharge. Commonly called a bump-stock—also known as a “slide fire”—this mechanism is designed to replace the weapon’s original shoulder stock to allow the rest of the weapon to slide backward and forward, harnessing the kinetic energy of the weapon’s recoil to allow for a more rapid trigger pull, thereby dramatically increasing the rate of discharge. It is also our understanding that this mechanism is technically legal under the National Firearms Act (26 U.S.C. 5845(b)) and the Gun Control Act (18 U.S.C. 921(a)(23)). In fact, we have enclosed two letters from the Firearms Technology Branch (FTB) of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) dated June 7, 2010 and April 2, 2012 which indicate this mechanism is not implicated by the laws that apply to machineguns. In light of the tragic events in Las Vegas, we respectfully request that FTB-ATF work expeditiously to re-evaluate bump stocks and similar mechanisms to ensure full compliance with federal law. If the re- evaluation shows otherwise, we request that you move swiftly to issue appropriate rulings concerning the manufacture, sale, transfer, and importation of these mechanisms, as well as any other mechanism that is expressly designed to simulate the automatic rate of fire of a machinegun. For our part, we will be studying legislative options to close any loopholes that might exist in current statutes governing the regulation of machineguns. We trust that you will undertake this request expeditiously and thoroughly, and we thank you for your thoughtful consideration. Should you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact us directly. Sincerely, # # #
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) and the Delta Regional Authority (DRA) today announced $1.4 million in new DRA investments to strengthen Southern Illinois’ infrastructure, workforce, and economy. DRA’s investments will support public and private partnerships and bring a total of $22.7 million in new investments to Illinois. The investments were made through the DRA States' Economic Development Assistance Program (SEDAP), the agency's main federal funding program that invests in basic public infrastructure, transportation infrastructure and workforce development projects. “I have long supported the Delta Regional Authority and its mission to create economic stability and spur job growth in Southern Illinois and the surrounding region,” said Bost. “Targeted investments like those announced today have helped to create and sustain thousands of jobs in the region. I look forward to continue working with DRA to build public-private partnerships and encourage economic development and job creation in Southern Illinois.” “DRA investments will support infrastructure improvements, business expansion and deliver better health care to Southern Illinois,” said Peter Kinder, alternate federal co-chairman of DRA. “These seven projects will help create jobs, build communities and improve lives across Illinois. This effort highlights DRA’s ability to build public-private partnerships to invest in the future of the Delta region.” Of the seven projects, five are located in the 12th Congressional District: 1. CAIRO: Bunge Road Facility Improvements. DRA Investment: $161,560. Total Investment: $178,860. DRA’s investment will support road improvements at 34th Street and Commercial Avenue. The road is extremely deteriorated and must be repaired to allow employees and customers access to an oilseed production facility. The deteriorated roadways create difficult conditions for truck traffic and create safety and liability issues for the oilseed facility, trucking companies and the City of Cairo. In June, Rep. Bost wrote a letter of support for the City of Cairo’s Bunge Road DRA grant application, which is available HERE. 2. CAIRO: Improved Access for Patients. DRA Investment: $118,489. Total Investment: $130,989. Community Health & Emergency Services, Inc. (CHESI) will strengthen and improve its information technology infrastructure to support an Electronic Health Record system to give patients access to medical records and telemedicine. CHESI will add a patient portal that will allow patients to access their own medical records, retrieve lab results, prescriptions and health education, appointment schedules and referrals. The system will be available to residents in seven rural counties in Southern Illinois. 3. BENTON: Franklin Hospital District Digital Mammography Upgrade. DRA Investment: $140,404. Total Investment: $156,305. This upgrade will meet the healthcare needs of patients in distressed areas. The hospital will modernize its imaging department by replacing the current analog breast imaging system with digital capabilities, an upgrade that is necessary to meet federal, state and American College of Radiology certifications for continued operation and service. 4. BENTON: Construction in Rend Lake Conservancy District. DRA Investment: $515,000. Total Investment: $5,460,794. The district will build a second discharge pipe from its water treatment plant to add community capacity and allow it to support 170,000 customers in five rural counties. This project is funded through DRA’s Community Infrastructure Fund and will maintain proper water pressure for customers and ensure adequate distribution during peak-usage periods. In June, Rep. Bost wrote a letter of support for the Rend Lake Conservancy District’s DRA grant application, which is available HERE. 5. CARBONDALE: Southern Illinois University (SIU) Medicine Building. DRA Investment: $113,218. Total Investment: $15,231,457. This project will provide educational/job training equipment for a 44,842-square-foot Family Residency and Physician’s Assistant Training Center (SIU Family Practice) that will be built. SIU is partnering with Southern Illinois Healthcare on the new training center, which will combat the shortage of primary care providers in the area. About DRA: The Delta Regional Authority is a federal-state partnership created by Congress in 2000 to help create jobs, build communities, and improve lives through strategic investments in economic development in 252 counties and parishes across eight states. To date, the DRA’s SEDAP investments, together with its state and local partners, have leveraged more than $3.7 billion in public and private investment into local small business owners, entrepreneurs, workers, and infrastructure development projects. These investments have helped create or retain more than 37,000 jobs, trained more than 7,300 workers for 21st Century jobs and provided water and sewer service to more than 66,000 residents since DRA was established. Learn more at dra.gov. ###
10.03.2017	Washington, D.C. — In the wake of legislation signed by Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner that would allow for the use of taxpayer money to cover an unlimited number of abortions anytime for any reason, members of the Illinois Republican Congressional Delegation voted to advance bipartisan legislation H.R. 36 – the Unborn Pain-Capable Child Protection Act – to restrict abortions 20 weeks or more after conception, the point at which unborn fetuses can feel pain. Representatives Peter Roskam (IL-06), John Shimkus (IL-15), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Darin LaHood (IL-18) and Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement: “Henry Hyde championed the rights of the unborn through the Hyde Amendment, which expressly prohibits federal funding for abortions. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, from 2005 to 2014, the infant mortality rate in the United States dropped 15 percent. Much of this progress can be attributed to technological advancements in medicine that gives children born prematurely and with various medical issues a fighting chance. H.R. 36 protects children like Micah Pickering who was born at 22 weeks and is a thriving toddler today. Read his story here. “In a reversal of long-standing Illinois policy, Governor Rauner has let down Illinois taxpayers and the unborn by signing H.B. 40. Today, the Illinois delegation stands together in our support of H.R. 36 to protect human life.” Background: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Act (H.R.36) restricts abortions 20 weeks or more after conception. Specifically, H.R.36 establishes criminal penalties for any person who performs or attempts an abortion on a fetus after the 20-week mark. In addition, this bill provides exceptions to save the life of the mother and in the case of rape or incest. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R 36 would save roughly 10,000 lives each year. The U.S. is one of only seven countries in the world that allows elective abortion past 20 weeks (5 months), at which point scientific evidence suggests that the baby is capable of feeling excruciating pain during an abortion procedure. A poll released in January 2017 found that 74 percent of Americans want abortion restricted to, at most, the first trimester. At the state level, over a dozen states across the country have enacted 20-week bills. ###
09.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to reauthorize an evidence-based, fully paid-for, program that strengthens and improves home visiting services for families in at-risk communities. The House-passed Increasing Opportunity and Success for Children and Parents through Evidence-Based Home Visiting Act (H.R. 2824) reauthorizes the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) Program for five years. Bost also voted for the Control Unlawful Fugitive Felons (CUFF) Act (H.R. 2792), which prohibits individuals who are the subject of an outstanding arrest warrant for a felony or parole violation from receiving monthly Supplemental Security Income (SSI) payments. Savings from the House-passed CUFF Act will be used to pay for reauthorization of the MIECHV Program. “Strengthening our families means strengthening Southern Illinois’ future,” said Bost. “This legislation helps break the cycle of poverty for at-risk families. At a time when the American people are demanding their taxpayer dollars be used more efficiently, these home visiting services have proven effective at getting positive results. On top of that, we’ve fully offset the spending by redirecting it away from federal payments that were being made to fugitive felons.” Background: The Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program (MIECHV) is an evidence-based program that helps to improve the lives of families in at-risk communities, focusing on the first years of a child’s life. Unlike most federal social programs, MIECHV funding is tied to real results. MIECHV takes an evidence-based approach to ensure taxpayer dollars are actually delivering the intended results and helping those most in need. By voluntarily participating in local home visiting programs, families receive help from health, social service, and child development professionals. Through regular, planned home visits, parents learn how to improve their family's health and provide better opportunities for their children. Home visits may include: Supporting preventive health and prenatal practices Assisting mothers on how best to breastfeed and care for their babies Helping parents understand child development milestones and behaviors Promoting parents’ use of praise and other positive parenting techniques Working with mothers to set goals for the future, and find employment and child care solutions # # #
09.27.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after House Republicans released today its framework for tax reform: “I’ve collected feedback from my constituents about what we can be doing better in Washington to help grow jobs and the economy in Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “And what I’ve consistently heard is that we need a simpler, fairer tax code that works for families, small businesses, and job creators alike. The plan released today will create opportunities for hardworking Americans by broadening the tax base, closing special interest loopholes, and growing the economy. The time is now to enact a plan that will level the playing field for American businesses by encouraging investment and job creation.” The full framework can be found HERE and a one page overview can be found HERE. ###
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – In response today to U.S. Representative Mike Bost’s July 28th inquiry into allegations of mismanagement at the Marion VA Medical Center, the Department of Veterans’ Affairs gave little indication that it had serious concerns regarding the current leadership or its management of the facility. “The allegations of mismanagement at the Marion medical center are serious, and it is important that the federal government show urgency in getting to the bottom of it,” said Bost. “When word of potential nepotism, employee intimidation, and whistleblower-retaliation exist, we can’t afford to leave any stone unturned in either debunking the charges or fixing the problem. Southern Illinois’ heroes deserve swift action on this. To that end, I will be formally requesting a face-to-face meeting with Secretary Shulkin to discuss this matter as soon as possible.” Background: July 28 letter is available here. Partial response from VA dated September 22 available here. Note: Complete response from VA is not available for public distribution due to sensitive information contained therein. # # #
09.21.2017	EAST ST. LOUIS, IL – U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (IL-12) joined U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson, East St. Louis Mayor Emeka Jackson-Harris, and other local officials at a press conference announcing the transition of the East St. Louis Public Housing Authority back to local control after nearly 32 years of federal management. “This is a big day for East St. Louis,” said Bost. “After speaking with Secretary Carson about the housing situations in East St. Louis and Cairo, I am proud he has visited both cities personally within the span of six weeks. You simply can’t overstate the significance of transitioning the ESLHA to local control after more than three decades of federal receivership. I am hopeful the new leadership will bring a renewed commitment to providing my constituents in East St. Louis safe and well-managed public housing.” “This has been an extremely long road but we now feel confident there the necessary capacity in place to turn the keys back over to our local partners,” said HUD Secretary Ben Carson. “Running a housing authority isn’t easy, but it requires the very best of those who manage public housing because the folks who call these units home deserve nothing less.” East St. Louis Mayor Emeka Jackson-Hicks said, “Today marks a significant milestone for residents and the ongoing revitalization efforts in East St. Louis. Over the past year-and-a-half, HUD, the ESLHA, members of the Advisory Board and I have developed a great working relationship to transition the housing authority back to local control. I am thankful to these individuals for playing an intricate role in helping ESLHA re-establish a new governance structure for accountability and transparency. We will continue to nurture our relationship with HUD and other public and private partners as East St. Louis reaches new heights. I am very appreciative of the outstanding residents who agreed to serve as ESLHA Board members and the city council's strong support of the new board.” Background: HUD took over operational control of the ESLHA on October 28, 1985, following years of deteriorating physical conditions, financial mismanagement and a lack of effective leadership. Today’s announcement formally ends the first and longest federal receivership of a local public housing authority. Under the terms of the Transition Agreement, the Mayor will appoint a five-member Board of Commissioners and HUD will transfer ESLHA’s assets, programs and projects to local control. The Board will work with the housing authority’s Executive Director Mildred Motley to oversee management of more than 2,000 public housing units as the local agency works to improve continuing physical and financial challenges. ###
09.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a $700,000 Economic Development Administration grant for construction of a new rail line at America’s Central Port in Granite City. The rail construction will enhance the link between area manufactures and the nation’s freight transportation network and boost the region’s economic readiness and competitiveness. “This grant is a big deal for jobs and economic growth in Madison County and the Metro East region,” said Bost. “America’s Central Port supports over 1,000 jobs and has a massive economic impact. Our community stands to benefit as the port continues to expand through both private investment and grants like this.” Background: The Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant totals $700,000. The total project cost is $1,000,000. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA’s grant process and investment process can be found at www.eda.gov. ###
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Act, to fully fund the federal government for Fiscal Year 2018. The legislation—which passed the House with a bipartisan majority – supports America’s rural economies, provides law enforcement resources to fight crime, and promotes small businesses. “This legislation invests in proven programs that are vitally important to Southern Illinois while also reducing unnecessary and wasteful spending,” said Rep. Bost. “It is Congress’s constitutional responsibility to exercise the power of the purse and this legislation sensibly funds our government and puts the American people first.” Make America Secure and Prosperous Act: Spurring Economic Growth: Supports America’s rural economies by providing funding for infrastructure development, housing needs, and loans to help expand rural businesses and industries Promotes opportunities for American small business to begin, grow, and prosper by providing funding for small business loans and veterans’ small business programs Supporting Our Farmers: Continues funding for critical programs that support farmers, ranchers, and private forest landowners, including programs that help with the implementation of the Farm Bill Invests in agricultural research by continuing operations at all Agricultural Research Service facilities and supporting the Agriculture Food Research Initiative grant program Fighting the Opioid Epidemic: Enhances drug enforcement efforts within the DEA, including heroin enforcement and combatting transnational organized crime, and increasing funding for DEA’s Diversion Control Program Includes funding for drug courts, treatment, and prescription drug monitoring as authorized in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act Supporting National Security: Includes funding for physical barrier construction along the Southern border Invests in new border technology, new aircraft and sensors, and new inspection equipment to protect the border Combats the increasing threat of cyberattacks by funding programs to enhance critical infrastructure and secure government networks ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement after the House passed a $7.85 billion disaster relief funding package for Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts: “The sheer size and scope of devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey is difficult to comprehend. First responders, volunteer organizations, and federal, state, and local agencies have been working tirelessly to help those in need through search and rescue efforts, staffing emergency shelters, providing meals, and offering comfort. I am pleased that both parties in Congress acted quickly to provide Americans along the Gulf Coast the federal resources they need to begin a long recovery and help ensure that the federal response to Hurricane Irma is adequately prepared.” Note: The bill contains the full amount requested by the Administration – totaling $7.85 billion in emergency funding, including $7.4 billion for FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund (DRF). This will ensure FEMA can meet all current needs for response and recovery efforts, while also being prepared for any additional disasters that may arise. It also includes $450 million to support the Small Business Administration's disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners begin to rebuild. # # #
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON—U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement following the Trump administration's announcement to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: Policies are only as durable as the process through which they are created. The confusion and uncertainty regarding the legal status of individuals affected by DACA is due in large part to the Obama administration’s insistence on sidestepping congressional authority. The House has already taken steps to make America safer, secure our borders and end sanctuary cities, but serious work remains. It is my sincere hope that the House and Senate, in coordination with the president, will find a just and reasonable solution for those affected by the DACA program, while also underscoring the importance of the rule of law. ###
08.30.2017	Decatur, IL – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today took part in a farm bill listening session with House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) and a bipartisan group of members of the committee. The listening session was held at Richland Community College Shilling Auditorium in Decatur, Illinois. “Agriculture is vitally important to the economy of Southern Illinois and to our entire nation,” said Bost. “The Farm Progress Show, right here in Illinois, provides an unmatched platform where producers from all over our nation can gather, meet, and exchange ideas about the latest and greatest developments in agriculture. I appreciate hearing the feedback from participants during this listening session and I thank Chairman Conaway and other members of the committee for making the trip to this event.” “Producers from across the country gather to the Farm Progress Show every year for the latest in ag innovation and services,” said Chairman Conaway. “So there is no better place to gather insight and feedback about the challenges in farm country and how we can improve ag policy in the next farm bill than right here in Decatur. I appreciated hearing the heartfelt comments of so many producers and thank everyone who was able to join us today.” More information on the listening session including the archived video can be viewed here. ###
08.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today announced a grant award to fund the construction of roadway improvements for industrial expansion in Mount Vernon. The project will improve access to allow current industries to ship and receive goods more efficiently, along with improving water service for the area, which will result in new higher paying jobs and additional employment throughout the region. “This grant not only improves infrastructure in Mount Vernon, it will also create more than 100 good-paying jobs and promote economic development in Jefferson County,” said Rep. Bost. “This is a win for job creation and the local economy.” Background: The Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant totals $1.5 million and is expected to create 110 jobs, save 97 jobs, and leverage $110 million in private investment. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. ###
08.24.2017	O’FALLON – Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) met with his opioid task force at the Katy Cavins Community Center in O’Fallon on Thursday to examine existing data and develop recommendations to create and implement policies at the federal, state, and local levels to curtail the opioid epidemic. Rep. Bost received input from law enforcement officers, first responders, educators, and treatment specialists on current efforts to fight the opioid epidemic and ways that these efforts can be improved. “The number of families affected by the opioid crisis in our communities are staggering,” said Bost. “But we have to remember addiction doesn’t care about your race, gender, income or political leanings. The people battling addiction are moms and dads, sons and daughters, neighbors and friends. One of the main takeaways from this task force meeting was that we have our work cut out for us. Legislators, law enforcement, educators, and treatment specialists can’t solve the problem alone. We’re all working towards the same goal of eradicating the opioid scourge, but better coordination is needed among these groups. That is exactly why I hosted this task force meeting—to create this vitally important open dialogue.” Task Force Participants: Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) Dr. Kari Karidis, Crisis Interventionist and Recovery Support, Companion’s Companion Chief Master Sergeant Scott Boothe, Illinois State Police, Narcotics Dr. Andrea Taylor, Clinic Director, VAMC St. Louis Karin Zosel, Legislative Affairs Director, Illinois Department of Justice Percy Menzies, Assisted Recovery Centers of America Special Agent James Shroba, US Drug Enforcement Agency ###
08.23.2017	O’FALLON– Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) on Tuesday hosted a human trafficking roundtable at the O’Fallon Police Department, where he discussed local efforts to fight this growing humanitarian crisis. Bost was joined by representatives from the O’Fallon Police Department, the FBI, Hoyleton Youth Services, and the Illinois Department of Child & Family Services. Additionally, a local human trafficking advocate and a survivor of human trafficking offered their personal insights. "Southern Illinois is not immune from the scourge of human trafficking," said Bost. "This modern-day slavery many times is hidden in plain sight, as our law enforcement officers described tonight. It breaks my heart to hear the stories of families torn apart right here in our community. This is exactly why I've supported and will continue to support legislation to crack down on human trafficking and implement a stronger detection system nationwide." Background: Information on legislation Rep. Bost has supported to fight human trafficking can be found here. Rep. Bost’s recent opinion piece on human trafficking can be found here. ###
08.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost, chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Subcommittee, announced his legislation to reform the appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs was signed into law today by President Trump. Bost introduced the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 (H.R. 2288) in May and the final version of the bill was passed unanimously by the Senate and House earlier this month. “This new law is vitally important for America’s heroes and their families,” said Bost. “Too many veterans are faced with intolerable delays during the VA’s benefits claims appeal process. By modernizing the system, we can now ensure they get the help they need in a more efficient and effective manner. I thank my colleagues in Congress - both Republican and Democrat – for working together across the aisle to help our nation’s heroes. I also want to thank President Trump for signing this legislation into law and prioritizing veterans’ issues.” “For far too long, veterans with pending appeals on their disability claims have been stuck in an outdated and cumbersome process,” said Roe. “In the last two fiscal years, the number of pending appeals increased almost 20 percent, meaning nearly half a million veterans are in limbo waiting for a decision on their appeal. This is absolutely unacceptable, which is why the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, led by Subcommittee Chairman Bost, came together to move legislation that will modernize the appeals process. In keeping with the committee’s tradition of bipartisanship, the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 was cosponsored by every single member of the committee. This new law will create three lanes for appeals claims which will undoubtedly speed up the appeals process and give veterans the certainty they deserve. I thank President Trump for signing this important legislation into law and commend my colleagues on the committee for their leadership on this bill, especially DAMA Subcommittee Chairman Bost and Ranking Member Esty.” Background: The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017, as amended, would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. The bill, which was cosponsored by every member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, passed the House 418-0 on May 23, 2017. The Senate amended and passed H.R. 2288 on August 1, 2017. The Senate’s substitute amendment clarifies that in certain circumstances the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) must correct duty to assist errors unless VA can grant the maximum benefit; provides for a limited duty to assist in connection to a supplement claim when veterans identify additional evidence needed to decide a claim; clarifies the difference between an “issue” and “claim”; and includes some changes to the reports and reporting requirements included in the House bill. Click here for more information. Read the bill here. ###
08.17.2017	SHILOH, IL – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) organized a panel of Southern Illinois small business owners, manufacturers, and job creators at the Shiloh Community and Senior Center to receive local input before Congress considers tax reform legislation later this year. “Panels like this allow me the opportunity to directly listen to local concerns and get feedback as to what we can be doing better in Washington to help grow jobs and the economy in Southern Illinois,” said Bost.” What I’m hearing is that we need a simpler, fairer tax code that works for families, small businesses, and individuals throughout our community. If we’re serious about strengthening the economy and growing jobs, it’s time to enact a plan that will level the playing field for American businesses by encouraging investment and job creation. Piecemeal efforts and carve outs are what have led to the current 70,000 page tax code. We need comprehensive, permanent tax reform, and we need it now.” “In this highly competitive business climate, it’s incredibly important to work towards simplifying the tax code,” said David Keen, Business Development Director at SKC Enterprises, Inc. “I appreciate Congressman Bost asking for feedback from the local community that he can take back to Washington.” Background: In 1986, President Reagan signed into law the single largest tax reform in our nation’s history. Now—over three decades later—our tax code has once again become an excessive burden on middle-class families, Main Street job creators, and America’s economy. In 2017, Congress has a once-in-a-generation opportunity to enact bold, pro-growth tax reform that will create jobs, grow paychecks, and unleash American competitiveness. Read the blueprint for tax reform prepared by the House Ways & Means Committee HERE. ###
08.14.2017	O’FALLON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement in the aftermath of the violence that took place in Charlottesville, Virginia: "Neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and the KKK do not represent American values. The president needed to call out these hate groups, and I am glad he did so. I also welcome the Department of Justice opening a civil rights investigation into the car attack in Virginia last weekend. We must reject and denounce the hatred and bigotry that was on display in Charlottesville." ###
08.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost, chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Subcommittee, announced his legislation to reform the appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs, which received final congressional approval today and will soon head to the president’s desk for his signature. Bost introduced the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 (H.R. 2288) in May and the final version of the bill was passed unanimously by the Senate last week. “This is a big step forward for America’s heroes and their families,” said Bost. “Too many veterans faced unacceptable delays during the VA’s benefits claims appeal process. By modernizing the system, we can now ensure they get the help they need in a more efficient and effective manner. I am pleased that Republicans and Democrats came together to support my legislation and I look forward to the president signing it into law in the near future.” Background: The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. ###
08.02.2017	CAHOKIA, IL – Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) worked behind the counter at the MotoMart in Cahokia, interacting with employees, serving customers, and conversing with constituents about issues important to them. Bost partnered for the special event with the National Association of Convenience Stores (NACS)’s In Store program. “Convenience stores are vital small businesses that provide essential services to time-starved consumers with one-stop shopping, grab-and-go food service, a variety of merchandise and fast transactions,” said Representative Mike Bost. “I was excited to have had the opportunity to participate in the NACS In Store program and witness firsthand the many benefits convenience stores offer to the residents of Cahokia.” “Convenience stores are the anchor of communities across the country, and they are also where community conversations take place,” said Henry Armour, NACS President and CEO. “More than half of the country visits a convenience store on a daily basis, whether to buy fuel, use the ATM, wash their cars or quickly buy snacks, drinks or meals. The NACS In Store program gives elected officials a perfect opportunity to experience how these stores serve the public in their home districts.” ###
08.02.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL) applauded the unanimous Senate passage of legislation he authored to modernize the appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Bost introduced the Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 (H.R. 2288) in May and helped guide it to quick passage in the House later that month. After minor technical changes were made in the Senate, the legislation is expected to head back to the House for a vote on final passage in September. “I applaud Republicans and Democrats in the Senate for passing this critical legislation,” said Bost. “For too long our veterans and their families have faced unacceptable delays during the VA’s benefits claims appeal process. There are currently hundreds of thousands of veterans still waiting on a decision from VA. This simply is unacceptable. We need to get this legislation to the President’s desk for signature as quickly as possible.” Background: The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. ###
07.28.2017	Representative Mike Bost (R-IL) and House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Jack Bergman (R-MI) today called on U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin to investigate allegations of mismanagement at the Marion VA Medical Center that may have compromised quality of care and patient safety. “According to a memorandum dated May 31, 2017, written by the VA National Center for Patient Safety (NCPS) program manager, the Marion VAMC has experienced significant declines in patient safety culture metrics and employee morale since these areas were last assessed in 2014. Specifically, the memo describes a 2015 visit by NCPS to investigate employee complaints pertaining to worsening organizational and patient safety culture at the facility. Employees also alleged that senior leadership retaliated against them for reporting such problems,” the members wrote. “VA internal documents demonstrate a strong need for the Central Office to investigate and take action to address the safety concerns.” The full text of the letter is available here. ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Make America Secure Appropriations Act (H.R. 3219), the legislative package that funds national security priorities for the 2018 fiscal year. It includes the appropriations bills for defense, military construction and veterans, energy and water, and the legislative branch. “The highest priority of Congress is to ensure the safety and security of our nation and the American people,” said Bost. “This bill does just that by giving our service members a much-deserved pay raise—the largest military pay raise in eight years. It also funds military infrastructure so that our service members can be safe and prepared, and takes care of our vets by providing the highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans’ Affairs. Additionally, the legislation secures our borders by providing funding for a wall on our southern border.” ###
07.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost announced today that the Illinois Department of Commerce & Economic Opportunity has awarded a $291,500 Workforce Training grant to Man-Tra-Con of Marion. “This is great news for the workforce of the future in Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “I hear from job creators throughout Southern Illinois all the time that they need employees with the right skills to fill in-demand jobs. I’ve consistently supported policies in Congress to renew our emphasis on trades, apprenticeships, and career and technical education. This is how we help get people into jobs that may double and triple what they’re currently earning and put them on a steady career path.” Background: The federal Workforce Training Grant program, administered through the U.S. Department of Labor is a program compiled of different apprenticeship and job training programs, all seeking to connect people to jobs and skills. These programs include the Apprenticeship Plus Adult Program, the Apprenticeship Plus Youth Program, the Talent Pipeline Program, Statewide Workforce Innovation Program, and the Youth Pathways Program. Man-Tra-Con in the City of Marion will receive $291,500 from the Apprenticeship Youth Program. This project will provide twenty individual youths the opportunity to participate in a structured apprenticeship program offering on-the-job training and employment opportunities in manufacturing. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in passing the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The legislation, which sets military policy priorities and determines what types of equipment and weaponry can be purchased, is expected to be passed by the Senate shortly and sent to the President’s desk for his signature. “This legislation begins the urgently needed rebuilding process after years of hacking away at our defense budget,” said Bost. “I believe government’s first obligation is protecting the safety and security of the American people. We can’t keep cutting away at our resources while the threats to American national security continually grow. I am pleased this bill continues to supply and train our troops while also enacting reforms to Department of Defense operations and streamlining bureaucracy.” Among the bill’s key provisions, NDAA: Increases base military pay by 2.4 percent; Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Modernizes our nuclear weapons stockpile, missile defense, and military vehicles; Supports a defensive and offensive cyberspace strategy; Blocks the misguided attempt to close military medical facilities upon which our deployed troops and their families rely; Improves the military health care system; and Continues funding and support for U.S. military and intelligence operations abroad, including combatting Russia and defeating ISIS. ###
07.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today met with Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson to discuss the ongoing housing crisis in Cairo, Illinois. “Secretary Carson and I had a frank discussion about the housing crisis in Cairo and failures in the system that helped create it,” said Bost. “Cairo’s suffering is due to years of fraud and corruption at the highest levels of the housing authority, a fact that was highlighted this week as HUD announced that several local housing officials accused of lining their pockets with federal housing funds have been indefinitely banned from seeking similar positions in the future. Ignoring past mistakes will do little to bring justice for the families victimized by the previous housing authority leadership or help them find the safe and sanitary housing they deserve. However, I am hopeful that new leadership is bringing a renewed commitment to getting Cairo back on its feet.” Background: A 2015 report in The Southern Illinoisan newspaper exposed the plight of Cairo, Illinois, residents living in United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) funded public housing units managed by the Alexander County Housing Authority (ACHA). Living conditions at two of the authority’s housing units – Elmwood and McBride – are extremely unsafe and unsanitary, in large part due to the neglect of the housing authority and the mismanagement of federal housing funds and potential fraud committed by its employees. Given the poor physical condition of the Elmwood and McBride properties, and the insolvency of the ACHA’s financials, HUD has determined are beyond rehabilitation. Now local residents, specifically the nearly 400 who live at the Elmwood and McBride properties, have been served notice by HUD that they must vacate their units in return for vouchers and counseling services that could compel them to relocate far away from the only community many of them have ever known. ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) joined a bipartisan coalition in Congress to pass a trio of bills cracking down on human trafficking and implementing a stronger detection system nationwide. “It should anger each and every one of us that Illinois ranks in the top 10 states for reported cases of human trafficking,” said Bost. “When Boko Haram kidnapped 200 teenage girls in Nigeria in 2014, human trafficking became a hashtag and garnered attention from countries around the world. But we’re wrong to assume that this modern-day form of slavery is an isolated tragedy in some faraway nation. Reported cases of trafficking continue to rise in Illinois. Our work is far from over, but these bills are vitally important to help protect American families.” The Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Act reauthorizes $130 million to fund the prevention of human trafficking, protect victims, and prosecute traffickers. The Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act ensures the Department of Labor can effectively train its employees to spot the illegal trade of people—and respond quickly and effectively when cases are detected. The Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act expands eligibility for Department of Justice grants to allow law enforcement agencies to qualify for federal funding for the development and execution of programs that fight sex trafficking. Background: There are over 20 million people enslaved around the world but few of them are ever identified as human trafficking victims. The International Labour Organization reports that three out of every 1,000 people are "trapped in jobs into which they were coerced or deceived." Illinois ranks 9th in cases reported in 2016. In 2016, the National Human Trafficking Hotline has received 26,727 calls, and 7,572 human trafficking cases reported. This multi-billion-dollar illicit industry helps fund international criminal networks and even terrorist groups, threatening U.S. national security and international stability. ###
07.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost applauded today’s announcement from the U.S. Department of Education that the Mascoutah School District will continue to be eligible for critical education funding through the federal Impact Aid program. This program helps the district educate children connected to Scott Air Force Base. “Ensuring the children of military families receive a high quality public education where they can learn alongside local peers is a promise we’ve made to our veterans and the communities that support our Armed Forces,” said Bost. “However, cumbersome rules and requirements can put important federal funds for these children at risk. Last year, Congress enacted legislation I sponsored that helped provide some additional Impact Aid funding for Mascoutah. Today, I am pleased that the U.S. Department of Education has accepted Mascoutah’s application resubmission for Heavily Impacted Aid, a goal we’ve been fighting for since my first year in office. I intend to work with my colleagues to ensure that the criteria used to determine eligibility fully reflects local tax efforts to support public education so similar problems do not result at Mascoutah or another military community. “We truly appreciate the leadership Rep. Bost has shown and the personal attention he gave to our unique problem,” said Craig Fiegel, Superintendent of the Mascoutah School District 19. “This has been a time-intensive process to solve a complex funding problem. We appreciate his tenacity and responsiveness to our needs. We’re been really impressed with the help and all the efforts Rep. Bost and his staff provided on our behalf.” Background: Impact Aid compensates local schools for "substantial and continuing financial burden" resulting from federal activities, such as educating children of military service members. The federal government provides compensation because local governments are unable to collect property or other taxes from federal property. In exchange, local tax rates for education must meet a certain threshold for participation. However, not all local public education taxes count towards the local participation requirement. Mascoutah was informed last year by the United States Department of Education that it was losing eligibility for heavily impacted aid due local tax rates allegedly falling below the threshold for participation. Recently, the Illinois State Board of Education submitted corrected state-wide tax data demonstrating Mascoutah actually met tax rate participation criteria. ###
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today voted with bipartisan majorities in the U.S. House of Representatives for two bills that strengthen public safety by combating dangerous sanctuary policies that permit criminals to go free and by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. “Years of lax immigration enforcement and the spread of dangerous sanctuary policies have made America less safe,” said Bost. “We have plenty of work to do in fixing our nation’s broken immigration system, and we owe it to the families of those who lost loved ones to take immediate action to stop such horrible and preventable crimes. We can't allow states and localities to pick and choose when to follow the law.” Background: The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) strengthens federal law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. H.R. 3003 clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority—the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails—by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. It also withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. The bill protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued, while allowing victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets. Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004) protects public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. In another tragic example, Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales—a criminal immigrant previously deported at least five times—is reportedly responsible for nearly a dozen sexual assaults. He allegedly kidnapped a woman and attempted to light her on fire using gasoline, and kidnapped and raped a 68-year old woman. ###
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced it would withdraw the controversial Obama-era Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “Turning back WOTUS is a clear win for Southern Illinois’ hardworking farmers, ranchers, construction workers, and manufacturers. The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule was a federal power grab of epic proportions, expanding EPA control to puddles, ditches and farmland ponds across America. That’s why I have fought so hard to eliminate this misguided rule. We must be good stewards of the environment, but we can do so without imposing crushing D.C. regulations that will put Southern Illinois’ economy at risk and impact millions of rural Americans.” ###
06.23.2017	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) led a push in Congress Friday for answers regarding alleged corruption at the Alexander County Housing Authority, the same day as the House approved an amendment Bost introduced to help ease the transition of Cairo residents and other Americans who have been displaced from a public housing authority to a new location. “Cairo’s suffering is due in large part to years of fraud and corruption at the highest levels of Alexander County’s housing authority,” said Bost. “As Cairo’s representative in Congress, I am doing all I can to hold these individuals accountable and help the residents of Cairo transition to a better living situation. I am proud to have the backing of Reps. Duffy, Wagner, and Palmer – three important subcommittee chairs with oversight over housing and government accountability – in this fight. It’s a real shame that the individuals who may be found guilty for causing this harm could have better living conditions in prison than many of the residents they were charged with protecting. Bost authored a letter to U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson requesting information related to decades of alleged corruption by officials at the ACHA. Bost enlisted the backing of Representatives Sean Duffy (R-WI), Chair of the Oversight and Government Reform Intergovernmental Affairs Subcommittee; Ann Wagner (R-MO), Chair of the Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee; and Gary Palmer (R-AL), Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Intergovernmental Affairs Subcommittee in this effort. The House Financial Services Committee has oversight over HUD public housing, while the Government Reform and Oversight Committee has conducted some of Congress’s most high profile investigations of federal waste, fraud, and abuse. Bost’s letter to HUD requests: A list of inspections and financial audits, or other reviews, conducted by HUD of the ACHA going back to at least 1995; Findings of the inspections and audits, and reviews, including physical inspection scores of the Elmwood and McBride buildings; Audits, inspections, or reviews of Elmwood and McBride maintenance records; and Documents and communications relating to potential fraud, waste or abuse involving ACHA officials and employees. Additionally, Congress unanimously approved an amendment Friday that Bost introduced to the Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act (H.R. 2842). The workforce legislation provides funding for states to subsidize up to 50 percent of employment for a limited time for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) in an effort to link low-income Americans looking for work with employers looking to fill job openings. Bost’s amendment to H.R. 2842, which was adopted unanimously by the House, ensures this program considers TANF-qualified individuals who have been displaced or relocated from a public housing authority to a new location. ###
06.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost today cosponsored the Stem the Tide of Overdose Prevalence from Opiate Drugs (HR. 664), known as the STOP OD Act. The legislation works to address the nationwide opioid epidemic by increasing the availability of Naloxone for first responders, expanding training in Naloxone administration, and enhancing educational and preventative efforts. “Report after report shows the opioid epidemic is destroying our communities,” said Bost. “But these aren’t just numbers or statistics. The people battling addiction are moms and dads, neighbors and young people. Addiction doesn’t care about your race, gender, income or political leanings; it affects everyone. Increasing the availability of Naloxone for our first responders will save lives, giving a mother, father, son, or daughter a new opportunity for recovery.” The STOP OD Act is supported by the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America (CADCA), the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN), Cleveland Clinic, University Hospitals, and MetroHealth. The STOP OD Act would: Authorize up to $75 million annually in fully-offset grants for 2 years to expand educational/preventative efforts and promote treatment and recovery. Authorize up to $150 million annually in fully-offset grants for 2 years to provide access to Naloxone, training in the administration of Naloxone, and for testing for Fentanyl. The testing portion is important because many Fentanyl overdoses are misdiagnosed because coroners are not testing for the drug. To help us better understand the power and range of the drug and therefore fight it more acutely, this legislation offers rebates for Fentanyl testing. Attach a fee of $80 (cost of one unit of Naloxone) to drug-related offenses to ensure criminals who are contributing to this epidemic are paying into mitigating the consequences of their actions. The fee goes toward paying for the Naloxone grant program, and after 2 years it goes toward paying down the federal debt. Extend data center consolidation efforts for 2 more years, resulting in an estimated $500 million in savings and covering the cost of the maximum grant allocation. Background: According to a report published by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in December 2016, “the ongoing epidemic of opioid deaths requires intense attention and action. In a November 2016 report, the Drug Enforcement Administration referred to prescription drugs, heroin, and Fentanyl as the most significant drug-related threats to the United States.” From 2014 to 2015, the death rate from synthetic opioids other than methadone, which includes Fentanyl, increased by 72.2%, and heroin death rates increased by 20.6%. Rates of death involving heroin and synthetic opioids other than methadone increased across all demographic groups, regions, and in numerous states. There is an urgent need for a multifaceted, collaborative public health and law enforcement approach to the opioid epidemic, including expanding Naloxone distribution, among other recommendations. ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement regarding this morning’s shooting of House GOP Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), members of his security detail, and Capitol Hill staff in Alexandria, Virginia: “James Hodgkinson contacted my office 10 times, beginning in June 2016 and continuing through May of this year. While he continually expressed his opposition to the Republican agenda in Congress, the correspondence never appeared threatening or raised concerns that anger would turn to physical action. Had we any indication that Mr. Hodgkinson posed a threat to anyone’s safety, we would have taken the appropriate steps to alert U.S. Capitol Police immediately. My prayers continue to be with Steve Scalise, as well as members of the security detail and congressional staff who were injured in this heartless attack.” ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement regarding this morning’s shooting of House GOP Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), members of his security detail, and Capitol Hill staff in Alexandria, Virginia: “With reports indicating that Wednesday morning’s shooter is from my district, this is a tragedy that certainly hits close to home. As we continue to gather information, Tracy and I would like to send our prayers to my friend and colleague, Steve Scalise, as well as members of the security detail and congressional staff who were injured. We live in challenging times and the political rhetoric has been turned up to an alarming level. This should serve as a wake-up call for all of us to step back from the battle lines and come together to strengthen our nation.” ###
06.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the House voted with a large bipartisan majority to pass the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 1094) to improve accountability and whistleblower protections at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): “The vast majority of employees at the VA are honest and hardworking, and it’s unfair to the good employees when the VA refuses to or cannot hold bad actors accountable,” said Rep. Bost. “Mismanagement and misconduct wouldn’t be accepted at any business or corporation, and it certainly shouldn’t be allowed at the VA. Our veterans deserve nothing but the best health care services and support after valiantly serving their country and protecting our freedoms. That begins with each VA employee being held accountable for his or her job performance. No hero should suffer because government bureaucrats failed to fulfill their responsibilities.” A summary of S. 1094 can be found HERE. ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Financial CHOICE Act: “The Financial CHOICE Act is a jobs bill,” said Rep. Bost. “The overreach of Dodd-Frank has allowed the big banks to get bigger while small businesses have been unable to get the loans they need to succeed. The Financial CHOICE Act includes numerous strongly bipartisan provisions to eliminate unnecessary regulations in order to provide small businesses and entrepreneurs greater freedom to innovate, grow their businesses, and create jobs in our communities. The legislation also ends ‘too big to fail’ taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street and imposes the toughest penalties in history for financial fraud.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C.—Two bipartisan bills authored by U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL) to help veterans passed the House on Tuesday. The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act (H.R. 2288) streamlines the benefits appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act (H.R. 1329) ensures that our nation’s veterans receive the same annual cost-of-living adjustment as Social Security recipients “I appreciate my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for supporting this long overdue legislation to help fix the VA’s broken appeals process and backlog,” said Rep. Bost, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. “Our heroes deserve rapid access to quality care, and that begins with having their appeals decided in a timely manner. I encourage the U.S. Senate to take up this legislation as soon as possible.” “When a veteran appeals a decision on their claim for disability benefits, they deserve to have their appeal reviewed and decided in a timely manner,” said House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Phil Roe. “It’s unfair to the men and women who may have been injured as a result of their service to have their claim for benefits stuck in the appeals backlog for years on end. I am grateful to Chairman Bost and Ranking Member Esty for their leadership in addressing this issue, and I’m proud that this bipartisan legislation was sponsored by every single member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.” Background on Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. The bill would give the Secretary the authority to test the new system prior to full implementation and would allow some veterans already going through the appeals process to opt into the new system. It would also require VA to provide a comprehensive plan for how the new system will be implemented and a subsequent certification by the Secretary that the department is prepared to roll-out the reform. Lastly, the bill would require the Secretary to submit periodic reports to Congress, including information on how many appeals are pending in both the modernized system and the legacy system. This legislation was sponsored by every member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. More information here. Watch Representative Bost’s floor speech here. Read the bill text here. Background on Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2017 would increase the rates of compensation for veterans with service-connected disabilities as well as the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for the survivors of certain disabled veterans as of December 1st, 2017. More information here. Read the bill text here. “We owe a constant debt to the men and women who have fought for our great nation,” said DAMA Subcommittee Chairman Bost. “I am proud to have bipartisan support from my colleagues in passing this bill to provide important cost-of-living adjustments to our nation’s veterans and their dependents. This vitally important legislation ensures the men and women who have served receive the benefits they have earned.” ###
05.11.2017	O’Fallon, IL – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after participating in a roundtable with local restaurant owners at Bella Milano, hosted by the Illinois Restaurant Association and the National Restaurant Association. Illinois’ 12th Congressional District is home to 1,401 eating and drinking establishments, employing more than 22,700 people throughout the District. “I am pleased to join the Illinois Restaurant Association, the National Restaurant Association, and restaurant owners from Southern Illinois to discuss issues important to these small businesses. Our local businesses owners are the heart of our community,” said Rep. Bost “These roundtables allow me the opportunity to directly listen to their concerns and get feedback as to what we can be doing better in Washington to assist their businesses. We need government programs that work for families, small business owners, and individuals throughout our community.” ###
05.11.2017	O’Fallon, IL – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) visited schools throughout the 12th Congressional District as part of Teacher Appreciation Week. He hand-delivered books donated by the Library of Congress and presented teachers and staff with a Certificate of Congressional Recognition for their dedication to educating Southern Illinois’ young people. Rep. Bost visited Carriel Junior High School in St. Clair County, Eldorado High School in Jackson County, and West Frankfort High School in Franklin County. In total, Rep. Bost’s office delivered over 100 books from the Library of Congress to schools, both public and private, throughout Southern Illinois. “In Southern Illinois, we are blessed with teachers and staff who work with and mentor students of all ages on a daily basis. They are extraordinary people. These devoted professionals work hard to equip our children with the tools that they need to be successful and realize their potential,” said Rep. Bost. “They do not do it for the recognition, for the praise, or for the paycheck, but for their commitment to our children and their desire to see them succeed and achieve their dreams. “Although we are celebrating Teacher Appreciation Week right now, a day should not go by that we do not thank our teachers and all school staff members for their service and commitment to the students of Southern Illinois.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass the American Health Care Act: “Obamacare was based on a one-size-fits-all approach that put bureaucrats in Washington in charge of your health care. It led to higher costs, fewer choices, and less access to the care people need. Its flaws are structural and cannot be fixed by tweaking at the margins. Many of the counties in the Illinois 12th Congressional District only have one option through the exchange under Obamacare, and that plan’s premiums have skyrocketed by 70 percent. In some states, insurers are fleeing entirely. “We have two options at this important juncture. We can stand by and watch Obamacare collapse by allowing health care options to become increasingly unaffordable and inaccessible. Or we can take action to return control of health care from Washington back to the states and restore the free market so Americans can access quality, affordable health care options. “The American Health Care Act is not perfect, but it is a step in the right direction to decrease premiums and expand and enhance health care options so Americans can find a plan that’s right for them. Importantly, the bill provides a stable transition to help ensure low-income Americans have access to quality, affordable options through a new, competitive, state-based private insurance marketplace.” ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted for a funding package that keeps the federal government operating through the remainder of the current fiscal year, which ends in September. The bipartisan legislation – which passed the House by an overwhelming 309-118 margin – includes a permanent fix for retired miners’ health care benefits, limits EPA overreach, drastically increases border security, and strengthens our military. “This legislation is not perfect and does not include everything we wanted, but it makes significant reforms that are wins for Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Now that we’ve come together to provide long-term certainty for our retired miners, military members, small businesses, and hardworking families in Southern Illinois, we can now redouble our efforts on the important initiatives that were not included in this bill and make progress there as we move forward.” Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Southern Illinois: Keeping Our Promise to Retired Miners: Contains a permanent fix that guarantees healthcare benefits to retired miners and their families who are facing uncertainty as a result of the financial crisis and corporate bankruptcies. Spurring Economic Growth: Provides flexibility for the Trump Administration to unwind harmful, potentially job-killing executive overreach put into place by the Obama Administration. Reduces unnecessary regulatory burdens across government, including within the EPA. Strengthening National Security: Includes the largest increase for border security technologies and infrastructure improvement in more than a decade. Prohibits the transfer or release of detainees at Guantanamo Bay into the U.S. Ensures Scott Air Force Base and other military installations receive the funding they need to keep America safe. Provides our troops the largest military pay raise in six years and reverses the Obama Administration’s personnel cuts. Streamlining the Federal Government: Rescinds, consolidates, or terminates more than 150 federal programs or initiatives. Increases oversight and limits funding for agencies that have performed poorly, misused taxpayer dollars, or are not acting in our best interest. Provides no new funding for Obamacare programs. Reduces funding for payments to the United Nations and other international organizations. ###
05.02.2017	Washington, D.C. Today, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Chairman Mike Bost (R-IL) and Ranking Member Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to modernize the appeals process at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), who is in Georgia today as he continues to recover from two recent back surgeries, plans to introduce companion legislation in the Senate along with Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) as early as Wednesday, May 3. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Phil Roe, M.D. (R-Tenn.) and Ranking Member Tim Walz (R-Minn.) are original cosponsors of the House bill. "I am proud to introduce this long-overdue legislation to provide veterans with a streamlined process to have their appeals decided in a timely manner," said Bost. "As of March 1, 2017, 470,000 veterans are still waiting on a decision from VA. This is unacceptable, and I thank President Trump and Secretary Shulkin for making appeals reform a priority for this administration." "I thank Subcommittee Chairman Bost and Ranking Member Esty for taking the lead on this important issue on behalf of the House, and I appreciate Chairman Isakson leading the way in the Senate," said Roe. "There's no question VA's current appeals process is broken. This new system would help VA move through the backlog of appeals so veterans waiting on their disability decision can have peace of mind." Background: The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act of 2017 would create three “lanes” for veterans’ appeals, including the “Local Higher Level Review Lane” in which an adjudicator reviews the same evidence considered by the original claims processor; the “New Evidence Lane,” in which the veteran could submit new evidence for review and have a hearing; and the “Board Lane,” in which jurisdiction for the appeal would transfer immediately to the Board of Veterans’ Appeals. The bill would give the Secretary the authority to test the new system prior to full implementation and would allow some veterans already going through the appeals process to opt into the new system. It would also require VA to provide a comprehensive plan for processing legacy appeals. ###
04.25.2017	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement following the announcement of an executive order to promote agriculture and rural prosperity: “The executive order announced today is welcome news for Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “For too long, federal agencies and policymakers have failed to fully consider the impacts of their policies on rural and agricultural communities like ours, and in many cases have ignored rural America entirely. This executive action demonstrates a new commitment to developing and supporting policies that will help struggling rural communities become more vibrant and prosperous places to live, start a business, and raise a family.” ###
04.18.2017	Collinsville, IL - Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) presented Specialist Fourth Class (ret.) Stephen Baldwin with the Bronze Star Medal on Tuesday. The fourth-highest award for military combat bravery, the Bronze Star Medal is awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces for heroic achievement, heroic service, meritorious achievement, and meritorious service in a combat zone. “I was honored to present this medal on behalf of a grateful nation to Spc. Baldwin. As many who know him and served with him have said, nobody deserves this medal more,” said Rep. Bost. “He is one of the many brave men and women who have risked their lives on behalf of our great nation. I cannot begin to express my gratitude for his heroic service. Southern Illinois is lucky to have Spc. Baldwin as part of our community. We are proud and we thank him.” “Recognizing our military veterans for their service is one of the most humbling parts of my job,” Davis said. “It is truly an honor to present Spc. Baldwin with this distinction that he earned through his service to our country.” Baldwin was drafted to serve in the U.S. Army at the age of 22 before deploying with the 23rd Infantry (American Division) from 1970 to 1971. Upon his honorable discharge, Baldwin received the Army Commendation Medal and the National Defense Service Medal for his service. However, despite the orders that were issued to award him the Bronze Star, he never received the medal and numerous other awards. Congressmen Bost and Davis presented Baldwin with the Army Good Conduct Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Expert Badge with Rifle Bar, Marksman Badge with Auto-Rifle Bar, the Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal and the Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross Unit Citation with Palm Device. ###
04.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded the U.S. Department of Commerce for issuing its final determination establishing significant anti-dumping tariffs on illegally-traded steel imports from several South Korean steel companies. The agency utilized authorities granted to it in legislation sponsored by Bost in 2015. “I’m pleased that the Department of Commerce is utilizing the new tools we gave them to help American companies and workers respond rapidly to illegally-traded imports that hurt our companies and destroy our jobs,” Bost said. “This development is particularly important to U.S. Steel’s Granite City Works facility, which has been rocked by falling demand and a surge of illegally-traded foreign steel, including from South Korea. These tariffs, and ongoing efforts to roll back the previous Administration’s policies hampering domestic energy production, will help increase domestic demand and provide certainty to American job creators that they won’t be undercut by illegally dumped and subsidized foreign imports.” Background In 2015, the Congress enacted Bost’s American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act, which expedites trade case considerations and enhances several authorities to address unfair foreign trade practices that artificially distort global markets and put American producers and workers at a significant economic disadvantage. Previously, trade cases could drag on for a significant amount of time resulting in permanent injury to domestic steel producers and workers. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch: “I am pleased to see the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Gorsuch, one of the most qualified judges nominated to the Supreme Court in recent history. During hearings conducted in the Senate, Judge Gorsuch showcased his sterling credentials and brilliant legal mind.” ###
04.07.2017	Washington –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) and other members of the Metro East Congressional Delegation sent a letter to United States Department of Commerce (DOC) Secretary Wilbur Ross urging the agency to ensure that proper dumping margins are placed on unfairly traded steel imports from Korea. Favorable margins could improve prospects for domestic steelmakers, including U. S. Steel’s Granite City Works in the Metro East. “We have seen the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry—most recently with the idling of Granite City Works in Madison County,” said Rep. Bost. “Congress has enacted legislation providing the Department of Commerce with the appropriate tools and authority to combat unfair trade practices and I fully expect them to apply these in a manner that helps protect and put our steelmakers back to work. There is no question that American steel can compete with anyone in the world, given a fair playing field.” “We appreciate Congressman Bost's continued leadership on strong enforcement of U.S. trade laws and advocacy on behalf of United States Steel and Granite City," said Suzanne Rich Folsom, United States Steel Corporation General Counsel and Senior Vice President for Government Affairs. U. S. Steel Corporation is party to an ongoing trade remedy case alleging that South Korean steel producers are dumping – selling at below market prices -- Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) into the United States market. Recently, the DOC revised and reduced its temporary preliminary margins on South Korean OCTG imports, resulting in a flood of South Korean steel into the United States market. The Metro East delegation’s letter questions this decision, and encourages the DOC to ensure proper dumping margins are put into place to address this flood of unfairly traded imports and to provide certainty to domestic producers and workers. ###
04.07.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after US airstrikes were conducted in Syria: “The use of chemical weapons is a war crime. Plain and simple. I support President Trump’s decision to send a clear message to the Assad regime that inhumane acts like these are beyond the pale and will not be tolerated. We must remain vigilant and continue working closely with our allies to defend our national security interests in the volatile environment in Syria. I share the President’s sentiment that we pray for the victims and ask for God’s wisdom in navigating this dangerous situation.” ###
04.05.2017	Washington – U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after House passage of the Veterans Choice Program Improvement Act: “I consistently hear from veterans in Southern Illinois about the red tape they have to cut through to get in to see their doctors. I’m encouraged today that we were able to come together in the House behind this bipartisan legislation that will make sure our veterans have access to care while we continue to work on a long-term solution.” Earlier this week, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed this legislation. The Veterans Choice Program Improvement Act would eliminate the statutory sunset date for the Choice Program and instead allow the program to continue until the original funding has been expended. ###
04.05.2017	Washington –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, convened a hearing on Wednesday morning to receive feedback from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Veteran Services Organizations (VSO) on seven legislative measures affecting veterans benefits. “At times, Republicans and Democrats may come down differently on the particulars of legislation, but today’s hearing was evidence that we all are dedicated to completing our shared mission to provide for our veterans,” said Bost. Among the legislation receiving feedback were Chairman Bost’s two bills to provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to veterans. “I am proud to advocate for these bills to provide important cost-of-living adjustments to our nation’s veterans and their dependents,” said Bost. “These measures have received bipartisan support in the past, and I will continue to lead my colleagues to ensure the men and women who have served receive the benefits they have earned.” The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 would provide a cost-of-living increase for wartime disability compensation; compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation in uniform. This increase would begin December 1. You can read the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 here. Social Security beneficiaries’ COLAs are automatic and do not require Congressional authorization each year. The American Heroes COLA Act of 2017 would authorize the VA Secretary to provide automatic annual COLAs to wartime disability compensation; additional compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation without having to seek Congressional approval. You can read the American Heroes COLA Act of 2017 here. ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement following the signing of an executive order to promote American energy independence: “The United States, and Illinois specifically, contains abundant energy resources. I believe we can make full and safe usage of these resources as we pursue an all of the above energy strategy that utilizes sources like coal, natural gas, nuclear, and renewables,” said Bost. “Encouraging domestic energy production creates millions of good paying jobs here at home. It also generates billions of dollars in taxes, royalties, and lease payment revenues, helping supplant energy imports from overseas and reducing our nation’s trade deficit in the process.” ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement regarding the decision to postpone a vote on the American Health Care Act in Congress: “Today’s decision to postpone the vote does not dismiss the fact that Obamacare is broken. This law has led to higher costs, fewer choices, and less access to the quality care that people need. These trends just aren’t sustainable. The American Health Care Act was to be the first step in a multi-step process to fix our health care system. I am hopeful that the White House and Congress will continue working to find solutions that restore health care decisions to patients and their doctors and not the bureaucrats in Washington, D.C.” ###
03.24.2017	Belleville, IL—Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) announced the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, “A Child’s Dream” by Isabelle Isom of Belleville Township High School East. Selected by an independent panel of local judges, Isabelle’s artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. “Congratulations to Isabelle Isom for winning this year’s competition,” said Bost. “We had an impressive 66 pieces of artwork that were submitted by high school students from 13 different schools across Southern Illinois. Each talented student submitted their own vision of ‘The Art of Happiness.’ The results were amazing. We commend Isabelle and every other student for their participation and for letting Southern Illinois’ talent really shine.” Bost also directed 12th District residents to visit the 2017 Congressional Art Competition photo album at www.facebook.com/repbost to select their favorite piece of art. ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement following the State Department’s approval of a construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline project: “This is a win for American jobs, American national security, and the American consumer,” said Bost. “This project is estimated to create tens of thousands of U.S. jobs in the construction, manufacturing, transportation and services industries, all of which are important to the economy of Southern Illinois. The pipeline will also decrease our dependency on Middle Eastern oil and help lower prices at the pump.” ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON – In response to concerns regarding the way in which Illinois’ per capita allotment of Medicaid funds would be calculated under the American Health Care Act, Republican Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation released the following statement: “Today our delegation received assurances from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Director Seema Verma that the State of Illinois will have the opportunity to accurately report its 2016 Medicaid payment information to CMS. This information is critical to ensuring our state receives the correct per-capita allotment of federal funds. “Illinois has long been disadvantaged by below average Medicaid reimbursements. Moving forward, our delegation is committed to working with the Trump Administration, state leaders, hospitals and providers to better calculate the federal funding our state receives.” A letter from CMS Director Seema Verma assuring the state’s pathway to submit relevant 2016 payment information can be found HERE. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Representatives Mike Bost’s (R-IL) bipartisan legislation to address the growing problem of Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) medical centers operating without permanent directors passed the House on Friday. The VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act (HR 1131), was adopted as an amendment to VA reform legislation that now moves to the Senate for further consideration. “No business or organization can successfully operate under a revolving door of short-term leaders – especially not one tasked with caring for America’s heroes,” said Bost. “At a time when restoring accountability and leadership at the VA is a primary focus, we can’t afford to continue operating in this haphazard way. As a veteran myself, it’s my duty to do my part in providing the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve.” “I appreciate the support from my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in passing this legislation to support our veterans. This is exactly how the legislative process is supposed to work. A problem was identified that affects veterans throughout the United States, a bipartisan legislative solution was proposed, and the legislation was ultimately passed by the House. I encourage my counterparts in the Senate to take up this legislation as soon as possible.” More than 20 VA medical centers nationwide currently lack a permanent director. Some of these facilities have not been staffed by a permanent director in almost two years. In lieu of a permanent director, these facilities have been managed by interim directors who may only serve in that capacity for an average tenure of 120 days. Rep. Bost’s legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to report to Congress with a plan for addressing the shortage of permanent directors, a shortage that could hinder the ability to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to our veterans. Bost, a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, introduced HR 1131 in February with Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA), and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI). The VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act: Requires the Secretary of the VA to develop and submit to Congress a plan to hire highly-qualified medical directors for each medical center that lacks a permanent director within 120 days of enactment; Identifies possible impediments to staffing facilities with permanent directors; and Assesses the possibility of promoting and training qualified candidates from within the VA for promotion to Senior Executive Service positions. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost is seeking input from residents of Southern Illinois as Congress moves forward in crafting a health care reform package. He has created a forum at https://bost.house.gov/yourstory for constituents to share their testimonials of how they have been affected by the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare. “From day one, I have worked to ensure that the voices of all Southern Illinoisans are heard, especially on controversial issues like replacing Obamacare,” said Bost. “That’s why I created this one-stop-shop for constituents to share their real life health care stories with me. Their perspectives, pro or con, will help shape how we deal with these issues in Washington. It's important that we get health care reform right, and I want to hear from Southern Illinoisans from across the district and across the political spectrum.” ###
03.13.2017	O’Fallon, IL – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today announced the opening of his new Metro East congressional office at 302 West State Street in O’Fallon. The new location will provide more convenient access from I-64 for constituents traveling from across the Metro East region. Casework and constituent outreach, which had been coordinated at Bost’s previous office location in Belleville, will be transferred to the O’Fallon location. Bost also continues to manage an office in Carbondale, as well as satellite locations in Alton, Granite City, and Mount Vernon. ###
03.06.2017	Washington – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s Executive Order regarding foreign entry into the United States: “The safety of the American people is the top priority of the federal government. I appreciate the Administration’s use of more precise language regarding which individuals are covered by the travel pauses. I am hopeful that this additional clarity will help ensure that the United States government honors its most important obligation: to protect the American people.” ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) Chairman Mike Bost (R-Ill.) introduced two bipartisan bills, the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 and the American Heroes COLA Act of 2017, to provide a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to veterans. “I am proud to introduce these bills to provide important cost-of-living adjustments to our nation’s veterans and their dependents,” said DAMA Subcommittee Chairman Bost. “These measures have received bipartisan support in the past, and I look forward to leading my colleagues to ensure the men and women who have served receive the benefits they have earned.” The Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 would provide a cost-of-living increase for wartime disability compensation; compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation in uniform. This increase would begin December 1. You can read the Veterans’ Compensation COLA Act of 2017 here. Social Security beneficiaries’ COLAs are automatic and do not require Congressional authorization each year. The American Heroes COLA Act of 2017 would authorize the VA Secretary to provide automatic annual COLAs to wartime disability compensation; additional compensation for dependents; clothing allowance; dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving spouses; and, dependency and indemnity compensation to children paid to our wounded warriors and their families for injuries they suffered while serving our nation without having to seek Congressional approval. You can read the American Heroes COLA Act of 2017 here. ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Bost released the following statement today after President Trump signed an executive order to dismantle the Obama Administration’s burdensome Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. “The Obama Administration’s Waters of the U.S. rule is a federal power grab of epic proportions, expanding EPA control to puddles, ditches and farmland ponds across America. That’s why I have consistently voted to eliminate this misguided rule. The President’s executive order is a step in the right direction in holding D.C. bureaucrats accountable to the American people. I look forward to turning back WOTUS on behalf of Southern Illinois’ hardworking farmers, ranchers, cattlemen, and manufacturers.” ###
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s address to a Joint Session of Congress on Tuesday evening: “I appreciate the President highlighting some of the work he and Congress are pursuing to empower America’s families and job creators. Particularly important to Southern Illinois have been our shared efforts to roll back many of the job-killing policies impacting our coal and farming communities. “I look forward to working with the administration on additional issues important to our region, including providing regulatory reform to get relief to hardworking small businesses, fixing our health care system so we are providing meaningful choices to working families, fulfilling our commitments to our veterans, and furthering the Buy American initiative. I am hopeful that both parties can find areas of common ground moving forward to achieve this positive, pro-growth agenda.” ###
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Representatives Mike Bost (R-IL), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today unveiled bipartisan legislation, the VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act, to address the growing problem of VA medical centers operating without permanent directors. Rep. Bost introduced the bill along with Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA), and Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI). “No business or organization can successfully operate under a revolving door of short-term leaders – especially not one tasked with caring for America’s heroes,” said Rep. Bost. “At a time when restoring accountability and leadership at the VA is a primary focus, we can’t afford to continue operating in this haphazard way. As a veteran myself, it’s my duty to do my part in providing the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve.” “It’s ridiculous that we have more than 20 VA medical centers without a permanent director across the country, including James E. Van Zandt VA Medical Center in Altoona,” said Congressman Bill Shuster. “It makes it difficult for these facilities to succeed when there is no permanent leadership, and I strongly support legislative efforts to require the VA to address this problem.” More than 20 VA medical centers nationwide currently lack a permanent director. Some of these facilities have not been staffed by a permanent director in almost two years. In lieu of a permanent director, these facilities have been managed by interim directors who may only serve in that capacity for an average tenure of 120 days. Rep. Bost’s legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to report to Congress with a plan for addressing the shortage of permanent directors, a shortage that could hinder the ability to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to our veterans. The VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act: Requires the Secretary of the VA to develop and submit to Congress a plan to hire highly-qualified medical directors for each medical center that lacks a permanent director within 120 days of enactment; Identifies possible impediments to staffing facilities with permanent directors; and Assesses the possibility of promoting and training qualified candidates from within the VA for promotion to Senior Executive Service positions. ###
02.14.2017	Washington –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, convened a hearing on Tuesday morning entitled “Exploring National Work Queue (NWQ)’s Impact on Claims Processing.” “Rather than assigning a claim to a specific employee to work the entire claim, NWQ breaks up the claim into individual tasks, such as scheduling a disability exam. After one claim processor reviews a file and completes an action, NWQ will likely assign another claim process for the next step. The second claim processor also has to become familiar with the file to determine what additional action is needed for VA to make a decision,” said Chairman Bost. “It doesn’t make sense to me how having multiple claim processors completely review the same file can possibly save time.” The National Work Queue is an information technology-based system used by the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) that automatically distributes claims among Regional Offices (RO) based on their capacity to adjudicate the claim. Prior to the implementation of NWQ, VA’s practice was to process a veteran’s claim at the RO in the state where the veteran lived. The challenge was that some ROs had large backlogs, and veterans in those states were often left in limbo—even if an RO in another state would have been able to process the claim faster. The NWQ was designed to increase efficiency by automatically assigning the claim to the RO with the highest capacity. NWQ allows VA to distribute its workload evenly across the nation to reduce waiting times for veterans who file claims for benefits. However, there are concerns about whether NWQ is actually performing as it should. VA’s claims backlog has increased from about 76,000 backlogged claims on May 2, 2016—before NWQ was fully implemented—to more than 100,000 as of February 4th. The question remains whether distributing work through NWQ is, in fact, more effective. ###
02.09.2017	O’Fallon –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today presented Corporal (Ret.) Michael Mann with the Bronze Star Medal. “As many who know him and served with him have said, nobody deserves this medal more than Corporal Mann,” said Rep. Bost. “He is one of the many brave men and women who have risked their lives on behalf of our great nation. I cannot begin to express my gratitude for his heroic service. I was honored to present this medal on behalf of a grateful nation. Southern Illinois is lucky to have Corporal Mann as part of our community, where he continued his service in law enforcement. We are proud and we thank him.” Mann, a veteran of the U.S. Army, served in the Vietnam War from 1969 to 1971. The Bronze Star Medal, unofficially known as the the Bronze Star, is awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces for heroic achievement, heroic service, meritorious achievement, and meritorious service in a combat zone. The Bronze Star with a "V" device is awarded for valor during combat actions against an enemy force. It is the fourth highest award for military combat bravery. Mann was also presented with the Air Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with 1 bronze service star, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, and Marksman Badge with Rifle Bar. ###
02.02.2017	Washington, DC –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, today introduced the bipartisan Beginning Agriculturist Lifetime Employment (BALE) Act to ensure beginning farmers, ranchers, and agricultural producers have access to credit to expand or diversify their operations. “Access to finance is the lifeblood of any business, but it’s especially important in agriculture,” said Bost. “I’ve heard from farmers and ranchers throughout Southern Illinois who are either just getting off their feet or are trying to grow their business. They tell me all the time that the cost of doing business is growing while their revenue to reinvest in their business and employees is shrinking. My legislation modernizes the Guaranteed and Direct Loan Programs to empower agricultural producers to do what they do best – bring the best food in the world to market.” The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Direct Loan Program provides direct low interest loans to producers, while the Guaranteed Loan Program allows private lenders to make conservation, operating, and ownership loans with the security of knowing the loans are backed by the USDA. However, the loan programs have not kept pace with the cost of starting and operating an agricultural business. Bost introduced the BALE Act along with U.S.Representative Jim Costa (D-CA) to update Farm Service Agency lending amounts under the USDA to better reflect the current farming and ranching costs. ###
02.01.2017	Video of Rep. Bost Speaks Against Job-Killing Coal Regulations Washington, DC– U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) today voted to overturn the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) “Stream Buffer Rule,” which threatens jobs at coal mines and has virtually no environmental impact off-site. Among many requirements, the rule requires a 100-foot buffer between coal mines and nearby streams, although DOI’s own reports show that almost all coal mines have no off-site impact, mines are being operated safely, and that lands are being restored successfully under existing state and federal regulations. Bost was cosponsor of the legislation, H.J. Res. 38, which passed the House of a vote of 228-to-194 and now moves to the Senate for its consideration. The resolution was passed by the House pursuant to the provisions of the Congressional Review Act, which allows Congress to overturn an agency’s rule if a joint resolution of disapproval is passed by both the House and Senate and is signed by the president. “The Obama Administration’s anti-coal regulation was a solution in search of a problem. It wasn’t intended to protect the environment. It was intended to put our coal miners out of work. And sadly, it’s been successful at achieving that goal,” said Bost. “If ever there was a time for Congress to act, this is it.” ###
01.31.2017	Belleville, IL – U.S Representative Mike Bost (IL-12) is pleased to invite all high school students from Illinois’ 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982, the event is a nationwide annual art competition that allows high school students from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories to showcase their artistic ability. “This is a great opportunity for our young people to showcase their talent while highlighting the beauty of Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “I always look forward to seeing the impressive artwork produced by the incredibly talented high school students here in Southern Illinois.” The Artistic Discovery Contest is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in our Congressional District. The theme of this year’s competition is “The Art of Happiness.” The winning artwork from our District's competition will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Additionally, the winner and a guest will be invited to attend a reception in Washington D.C., where they will be escorted on a tour of the U.S. Capitol. Judging is performed by members of the local art community. Submissions will be accepted in Congressman Bost’s Belleville District Office through February 23, 2017. Further information about the program, including guidelines and student release forms that are required in order to participate in the 2017 competition, can be found on Congressman Bost’s website: www.bost.house.gov or by calling his office at 618-233-8026. ###
01.27.2017	Washington, DC –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), a member of the House Pro-Life Caucus, today participated in the 2017 March for Life. The mission of the March for Life is to provide all Americans with a place to testify to the beauty of life and the dignity of each human person on the anniversary of legalized abortion in the United States. “As a father and grandfather, I was proud to walk in today’s March for Life to celebrate the preciousness of human life,” said Rep. Bost. “The love that a family feels for their children doesn’t begin on the day the child is born. It starts when they learn that their prayers have been answered and that a new life is being brought into this world. It is my sincere belief that America is only as strong as our willingness to protect the weakest and most vulnerable among us, which is why I have fought in Congress to eliminate taxpayer funding for abortion and fought to preserve pro-life health care providers' rights of conscience. As today’s incredible turnout indicated, today the pro-life movement is as strong as ever and making significant progress.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Representative Mike Bost (IL-12), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today unveiled bipartisan legislation, the Requiring Accountability and Inspections for Dining Service (RAID) Act, to ensure veterans are served safe meals at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals. “The thought of roaches and other insects crawling across kitchen countertops where our veterans eat their meals is simply unacceptable,” said Rep. Bost. “Our heroes deserve much better than substandard eating conditions that would never be tolerated in a private sector hospital. These stories are certainly not the case at all VA facilities, but the fact that it happens anywhere makes clear the need for this legislation.” Last year, a whistleblower complaint uncovered significant sanitary and vermin infestation issues in the kitchen of a VA hospital in Northern Illinois. According to the whistleblower and complaints by veterans, pests, including roaches, were present on counters when meals were prepared and served. Currently, the VA establishes its own standards for sanitation in their dining service locations. These standards are different from those established by each state with the help of the Department of Health and Human Services for private hospitals. Representative Bost introduced the RAID Act along with Representative Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Representative Aumua Amata (R-AS), and Representative Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) to ensure food preparation facilities at VA hospitals are held to the highest possible sanitary standards possible. The legislation instructs the Department of Veterans Affairs to work with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospital Organizations to guarantee that the food our veterans are served meets quality standards, and that facilities are properly maintained and inspected. ###
01.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Mike Bost led a coalition today of nearly 20 House Republicans in authoring a letter to the incoming Trump Administration pledging their assistance in the development of its “Buy American, Hire American” initiative. Buy American laws provide a preference to domestically-produced goods and services in federal procurement, such as investments in public infrastructure. “When American taxpayer dollars are being spent, an effort should be made to spend those in support of American workers,” said Bost. “As we grow our economy and rehabilitate our nation’s infrastructure, more must be done to ensure that Buy American preference laws are applied to these projects.” Bost’s effort was supported by U.S. Steel, the Alliance for American Manufacturing and more than a dozen iron and steel companies and associations representing steel manufacturers and fabricators.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Mike Bost issued the following statement regarding House passage of a budget resolution that sets the stage for Congress to begin the process of repealing and replacing Obamacare: “Obamacare has failed. House approval of this budget resolution begins the process for repealing this misguided law and replacing it with patient-centered reforms that expand options, lower costs, and increase access to quality care. These reforms are not intended to restrict access to health care; they are intended to empower more Americans to get the help they need. “Today’s vote is not the end of the process. It’s the beginning of a thoughtful, step-by-step process that will involve input from patients and doctors, Republicans and Democrats. For Southern Illinois families who have seen their premiums increase by up to 71% under Obamacare, I think that’s the kind of conversation we need.” ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Mike Bost announced today that he has been appointed chairman of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs. The responsibilities Bost will oversee as chairman include management of our national cemeteries, reforming the claim appeals process, and reviewing the quality and training methods of the Veterans Benefits Administration. “Rep. Mike Bost is a worthy choice to lead the Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs,” said Veterans’ Affairs Committee chairman Phil Roe. “He has been a tireless advocate for veterans in his tenure on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and I’m confident he will effectively lead the subcommittee in this new role. I look forward to working alongside Rep. Bost as we continue our work to honor our nation’s heroes and improve disability claims processing at VA.” “As a veteran, I am honored to serve our heroes as chairman of this important subcommittee,” said Bost. “We have a lot of work to do in strengthening the disability claims process and meeting the needs of our veterans. I’m ready to roll up my sleeves and get working with my colleagues on implementing positive reforms.” ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Mike Bost released the following statement on House passage of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report: “This legislation ensures our troops have the tools they need to defend our nation against growing threats at home and abroad and that our veterans have full access to the benefits they’ve rightly earned,” said Bost. “I am pleased that the defense funding package included provisions I introduced to empower small businesses and to protect Mascoutah’s military families from a temporary loss of heavily Impacted Aid. While NDAA has national implications, real impact is in how it affects hardworking families.” Among the bill’s key provisions: • Bost amendment to provide bridge funding to Mascoutah School District to compensate for its temporary loss of heavily impacted aid; • Bost amendment requiring the Small Business Administration to create a new small business size standard for agriculture producer businesses; • Increases base military pay 2.1 percent; • Maintains current housing allowance policies; • Provides increased military readiness stabilization funding to ensure that our troops have the training and equipment they need; • Provides relief for California Guardsmen who were issue inappropriate bonuses by directing a process for the fair adjudication of their cases. • Continues to prevent President Obama’s attempts to close the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and transfer terrorists to the United States. The United States Senate is expected to pass this legislation shortly. It will then go to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced he is accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the U.S. military academies. “In Southern Illinois, we have exceptional and patriotic young men and women who are already leading their community in and out of the classroom,” says Rep. Bost. “As a veteran, I encourage these individuals to apply for an academy nomination and continue to represent the best our state has to offer. I’m proud that Southern Illinois produces some of the best students in this country to lead a new generation.” To be eligible for a nomination, a candidate must be: An American citizen, At least 17 years old, No older than 23 on July 1, 2016, Not married, Under no legal obligation to support a child; and A legal resident of the 12th District of Illinois. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY; U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Students and others may apply for a nomination by clicking here. Completed applications must be received by no later than November 1, 2017, or they will not be considered. More information is available by calling Dominique Manley at Rep. Bost’s Belleville office at (618) 233-8026.
08.24.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement in response to the Illinois Department of Insurance’s health care rate filings for 2017, which indicate that premiums could increase by up to 45 percent next year: “Today’s announcement of massive increases in health insurance premiums is the predictable outcome of the President’s health care law. The President promised Obamacare would save the average family $2,500 a year, while letting Americans keep their doctor of choice. Instead, the law has resulted in double digit rate premium rate increases, kicked thousands of Illinoisans off their existing plans, and reduced options and access to care. To make matters worse, Washington Democrats cut $800 billion from Medicare to fund this disastrous law. “Americans should have the right to make their own health care choices without interference from the D.C. bureaucrats. That’s why I support repealing Obamacare and replacing it with patient-centered reforms that increase access to quality healthcare.”
08.18.2016	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced a grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration of more than $1.6 million for infrastructure improvements at the Scott Air Force Base/MidAmerica Airport facility. “This is a significant investment in an important hub of transportation for many thousands of residents and military personnel in and around the Metro East,” said Rep. Bost. “This grant provides necessary funding for critical upgrades at MidAmerica. This airport is seeing an increase in traffic and these improvements to the infrastructure are another sign this transportation center continues to add to the economic growth of Southern Illinois.” The federal grant will be used to reconstruct 11,850 feet of the airport's existing access road—enhancing access to the airport, improving a portion of the existing access road, and modifying approximately 3,500 square feet of the existing passenger terminal building.
08.11.2016	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded a U.S. Department of Commerce decision to impose substantial tariffs on illegally dumped and subsidized foreign steel. The new penalties are partially the result of legislation Bost introduced last year to improve America’s anti-dumping and countervailing duty trade remedy laws. “Granite City Works and other domestic steel producers have been undercut by unfair foreign trade for too long,” said Bost. “That’s why I am pleased that the Department of Commerce is making effective use of the tools provided them in our legislation. This is no doubt a victory for America’s steel industry, but the battle is far from over. The ultimate goal remains getting our steelworkers back on the job as soon as possible.” Bost’s bill, the American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act, was signed into law in June 2015. It makes it easier for American workers and companies to prove economic harm from illegally traded products, speeds up the complaint petition process, and allows the government to impose maximum penalties on illegally dumped and subsidized steel. Previously, companies had to suffer significant harm and often wait for years for remedies to take effect. The Department of Commerce made its affirmative final determinations in the antidumping and countervailing duty investigations concerning imports of hot-rolled steel against Australia, Brazil, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, Turkey and the United Kingdom. The final step in the process is an International Trade Commission vote to affirm the steel industry has suffered injury which is scheduled for September.
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) authored a bipartisan letter today to negotiators of the National Defense Authorization Act urging that no construction funding be approved for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s next western headquarters until two Inspector General investigations into the site selection process are completed. Bost’s letter was signed by 11 other Illinois House members from both parties. “I am pleased that my Illinois colleagues from both parties have supported our fight to withhold NGA-West funding until we’ve got answers on the flawed site selection process,” said Bost. “It’s simple good government to have a full accounting of the facts before asking taxpayers to foot the bill for this $1.7 billion national security priority. I am hopeful the Conference Committee will weigh our concerns about mission security, public safety and environmental impact more carefully than NGA itself ever did.” Bost was joined on the letter by Reps. Rodney Davis, Bobby Rush, John Shimkus, Adam Kinzinger, Tammy Duckworth, Dan Lipinski, Peter Roskam, Cheri Bustos, Bill Foster, Randy Hultgren, Bob Dold and Darin LaHood. To view Bost’s delegation letter, please see attached.
07.14.2016	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced today his intention to oppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement if it comes before the House for a vote later this year. “I believe in free trade, but it must be fair trade,” said Bost. “Sadly, Southern Illinois has been a case study in the negative impact of unbalanced trade on U.S. manufacturing jobs. That’s why I successfully fought to strengthen anti-dumping laws in last year’s Trade Promotion Authority package and voted to ensure TPP would be opened to the public for review in the light of day. “Having carefully weighed the pros and cons of this trade agreement, I believe it’s in the best interests of my district to oppose it. We must continue to work to open new markets to our farmers and manufacturers, but it needs to be on an even playing field that has titled against American workers for too long.”
07.11.2016	Washington, D.C.—Speaker Paul Ryan has appointed Rep. Mike Bost to the joint House-Senate conference committee tasked with negotiating the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. An active member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Bost will serve as an outside conferee representing the committee’s views on matters specifically related to veterans’ policy. “Mike Bost’s experience as a Marine and a leader on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee makes him a highly-qualified choice for the conference committee,” said Speaker Ryan. “Although still a freshman in Congress, Mike has already made his mark on issues important to our nation’s veterans, and we are fortunate to have him lending his perspective to the upcoming negotiations.” “I appreciate Speaker Ryan appointing me to the conference committee for NDAA,” said Rep. Bost. “I know we have an important task ahead, and I couldn’t be more excited to roll up my sleeves and get to work on my first negotiations between House and Senate. I look forward to helping shape the policies that will improve care and services for America’s heroes.”
07.07.2016	Tracy and I would like to invite you to our upcoming Southern Illinois Women’s Fair on Saturday, August 6, 2016. This year, it will be held at the Carbondale Civic Center located at 200 South Illinois Avenue in Carbondale and begins at 8:30 a.m. This year, we’re happy to feature two speakers for the event. Leslee Holliday will be speaking on her mission to minister to other wives in Major League Baseball. Leslee is married to Matt Holliday of the St. Louis Cardinals. Over the years, Leslee has led Bible studies in her home for wives of professional athletes in St. Louis, Missouri. Our other featured speaker is Sarah Panzau Evans. Sarah is a Belleville native and former college athlete who was involved in a near fatal car accident in 2003 that changed the course of her life. For the past decade, Sarah has been an inspirational public speaker on the consequences of drinking and driving. The Southern Illinois Women’s Fair will also include several other speakers addressing issues facing Southern Illinois women such as finding a work and family balance in your life to protecting your family in today’s digital world. To REGISTER, click here
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Mike Bost issued the following statement today regarding FBI Director James Comey’s decision not to seek charges against Hillary Clinton for transferring classified information on her private server: “The FBI’s admonition that Hillary Clinton was ‘extremely careless’ in sending classified emails from her private server proves that she not only violated federal statute, but that she repeatedly lied to the American people about it. If any other citizen acted in a similar fashion, they likely would have faced serious sanctions for doing so. Political insiders entrusted with access to sensitive national security information shouldn’t be elevated to a position that puts them above the law.”
06.28.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost issued the following the publication of the House Select Committee’s report on the Benghazi, which included testimony from 81 new witnesses and uncovered 75,000 new documents providing the most detailed account of the 2012 terrorist attack that killed four Americans: “The American people deserve a full and complete accounting of the facts regarding the terrorist attacks that took the lives of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three American security personnel in Benghazi, Libya. Regrettably, the Obama Administration has spent the last four years dodging Congress about what they knew and when they knew it. This national security crisis was compounded by the Administration’s failure to take responsibility for intelligence failures that made the attack possible in the first place. I commend Chairman Gowdy and the House Select Committee for its dogged commitment to finding the truth about this dark day in our nation’s history.”
06.23.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost applauded the United States Supreme Court’s split decision that effectively upholds a lower court ruling against President Obama’s executive orders granting de facto amnesty for illegal immigrants. “Today’s ruling is a victory for the American people and the rule of law, and another blow to the Administration’s abuse of executive authority. It might be tough for some to accept, but the bounds of the Constitution apply to the President just as it does to everyone else. We will never be able to secure our nation until we start fully enforcing our immigration laws and protecting our borders. Until then, our fight for the integrity of the Constitution continues.” This ruling joins other court decisions that have overturned or delayed other major components of the Obama Administration’s agenda, including some of those targeting the coal industry.
06.22.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, announced today that he is accepting applications through the Wounded Warrior Program for a Veterans Outreach Coordinator in his Belleville District Office. Applicants must have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have at least a 30 percent service-connected disability rating and fewer than 20 years of service. “So many Southern Illinois veterans have risked life and limb for their country, and the firsthand experience of one of these heroes will be invaluable for our office,” said Rep. Bost. “As a Marine, I am excited to help put one of our veterans to work in continuing their selfless service to their community.” The Wounded Warrior Program was established to create fellowships that provide employment opportunities within the House of Representatives. In addition to a current resume, applicants must submit a copy of their DD214 and a VA letter confirming that they have at least a 30 percent service-connected disability rating. For more information on the position, click here.
06.10.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost, a member of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs, introduced H.R. 5231, the Requiring Accountability and Inspections for Dining Service (RAID) Act, to establish new cleanliness inspection requirements for all VA Medical Center kitchens and dining service areas that mirror those required for private sector hospitals. “The thought of roaches and other insects crawling across kitchen countertops where our veterans eat their meals is the stuff of horror movies,” said Rep. Bost. “It’s unacceptable and a slap in the face to our heroes that they could be subjected to substandard eating conditions that would never be tolerated in a private sector hospital. These stories are certainly not true at VA facilities everywhere, but the fact that it happens anywhere makes clear the need for this legislation.” The RAID Act takes away the VA’s power to self-police and self-inspect their kitchens and food service areas. It also requires a national accreditation organization to inspect these areas at all VA hospitals and facilities nationwide. The RAID Act also mandates that kitchens and food service areas meet the same cleanliness and inspection standards as private hospitals, which are generally held to the same health standards as restaurants, undergoing up to three inspections per year by local or state health departments. Sen. Mark Kirk (R-IL) introduced similar legislation recently in the U.S. Senate.
06.06.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement expressing his frustration with the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s final decision to locate its new west campus in North St. Louis: “NGA’s final decision is as disappointing as the methods they used to achieve it,” said Bost. “It appears that this result was baked in long ago, despite nearly every objective metric being in St. Clair County’s favor. I’m currently reviewing NGA’s record of decision and the justifications they used for a process that has yielded more questions than answers from the very beginning.” ###
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) authored a letter to the Department of Defense urging a formal investigation by the DoD Inspector General into the faulty U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ report used to justify moving the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency to North St. Louis. Bost’s request follows a similar appeal he made earlier this month to the Army Corps’ Inspector General, whose investigation has yet to be completed. “I have asked NGA for answers regarding the laundry list of errors contained in the Army Corps’ report,” said Bost. “However, I continue to receive nothing more than superficial assurances that the proper guidelines have been met, particularly regarding security setback standards. Until I get the specific and transparent answers my constituents deserve, I am going to use every tool at my disposal to the bottom of this misguided decision. That’s why today I am calling for a Defense Department investigation, in addition to the Army Corps investigation that’s already underway.” ###
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost authored a bipartisan letter to the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) this week in support of an unfair trade complaint filed by U.S. Steel. Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) joined Bost’s effort, along with more than 40 Members of Congress who signed on to the letter. “We have seen the harm that unfair and illegal trade practices have done to our steel industry—most recently with the idling of Granite City Works in Madison County,” said Rep. Bost. “The ITC needs to aggressively investigate this complaint, which may provide our steel companies and their dedicated workers with one more tool to fight illegal imports.” “U.S. Steel appreciates the strong bipartisan support from elected Representatives for the U. S. Steel complaint filed with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) under Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930,” said Mario Longhi, President and CEO, United States Steel Corporation. “U. S. Steel is grateful for the leadership of Representatives Bost and Nolan in gathering bipartisan support for this new investigation into illegal, unfair trade practices by Chinese companies.” The letter also urged the ITC to ensure that U.S. Steel is permitted to present its case in full.
05.24.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost announced today he will be hosting a free, public forum this Friday, May 27th, for local residents to raise questions and concerns regarding placement of the new National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency’s western headquarters. Also attending the forum at the Katy Cavins Community Center in O’Fallon will be Rep. Rodney Davis, St. Clair County Board Chairman Mark Kern, Madison County Board Chairman Alan Dunstan, and other community leaders. “Nearly every objective metric proves that St. Clair County is the superior choice for the new NGA facility,” said Bost. “So it begs the question, ‘How did NGA come to the conclusion that it belongs in North St. Louis instead?’ Unfortunately, I’ve never received an adequate answer to that question. Therefore, I’ve decided to host a public forum that will give my constituents a chance to have their voices heard, because NGA clearly ignored their concerns during the public comment period.” Who: Reps. Mike Bost and Rodney Davis, St. Clair County Board Chairman Mark Kern, Madison County Board Chairman Alan Dunstan, and other community leaders What: NGA Public Forum Where: Katy Cavins Community Center, 308 East 5th Street in O’Fallon When: Friday, May 27th beginning at 10:00 a.m.
05.23.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost’s VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act (H.R. 3956) passed in the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously. The bipartisan bill addresses the growing problem of VA medical centers (VAMC) operating without permanent directors, an instability that makes it more difficult to implement long-term reforms in patient care. “Continual uncertainty at the top of any organization is destructive, and it certainly makes it tougher to fix problems at the VA,” said Rep. Bost. “I am proud that Republicans and Democrats came together to support my efforts to require a permanent director at all VA facilities. That’s the only way we’re going to successfully address the much-publicized and deep-rooted failures that have come to light in caring for our heroes.” “Rep. Bost’s bill helps provide the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the best care possible. I applaud his leadership in addressing this problem that impacts dozens of VA hospitals across the country,” Rep. Jeff Miller, Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. H.R. 3956 would: Direct VA to develop a plan to hire a director for each VAMC without a permanent director; Require that each VA Director annually certify compliance with the scheduling directive (or any successor directive that replaces it) or submit a report to the Secretary explaining why the facility is not in compliance; Require VA to report annually to the House and Senate Veterans Affairs Committees with a list of facilities that have and have not certified compliance with the scheduling directive (or any successor directive that replaces it) and to notify Congress whenever a facility is granted exemption from compliance. Background: Over the past three years, the St. Louis VA has been managed by more than seven different acting directors. The short-term uncertainty has impacted the ability of the system management to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to Veterans.
05.18.2016	Washington, D.C.—Tuesday night, the House of Representatives passed an amendment by Rep. Mike Bost that secured additional Impact Aid Program funding for the Mascoutah School District. The amendment helps address the district’s loss of eligibility for heavily impacted aid, a program that funds schools on federal property with large numbers of military children. “Scott Air Force Base is home to thousands of servicemembers and their families,” said Bost. “Due to the fact that these communities are located on federal property and unable to collect property taxes and other revenue, Impact Aid helps fill the gap. When I learned that Mascoutah would no longer be eligible for this critical federal funding, I committed to securing a short-term fix until we can find a long-term solution. In addition, I am going to seek answers regarding why the school district wasn’t informed earlier so it could make adjustments to protect this funding.” “We truly appreciate the attention Rep. Bost gave to our unique problem,” said Craig Fiegel, Superintendent of the Mascoutah School District 19. “This has been a tedious process, putting together language to address a very complicated issue. We appreciate his tenacity and responsiveness to our needs. I know it’s been a long process. We’re been really impressed with the help and all the efforts Rep. Bost and his staff provided on our behalf.” Impact Aid compensates local schools for "substantial and continuing financial burden" resulting from federal activities, such as educating children of military service members. The federal government provides compensation because local governments are unable to collect property or other taxes from residents. Mascoutah was recently informed by the United States Department of Education that it was losing eligibility for heavily impacted aid, despite the fact that more than 50 percent of students are connected to Scott Air Force Base.
05.12.2016	Washington, D.C.— Tonight, Rep. Mike Bost submitted a letter to the Engineer Inspector General (EIG) of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers urging an independent investigation into the site selection process for the new National Geospatial Agency (NGA) West campus. The Army Corps’ Environmental Impact Statement, which NGA Director Robert Cardillo relied upon in selecting a North St. Louis site for construction, included flawed geographical data and a poor analysis of the impact on mission security and the environment. “In our meeting this afternoon I asked Director Cardillo to delay his final decision on the site location until a laundry list of inaccuracies in the Army Corps’ report were addressed,” said Bost. “When he refused, I had no alternative but to request a full, complete, and independent investigation by the Inspector General. The more than 1,000 constituents who submitted letters for public comment deserve to have their concerns addressed. Until we have answers, we will continue to fight through any means available. The Army Corps’ Engineer Inspector General, as with any agency’s Inspector General, is charged with identifying, auditing, and investigating fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement of any kind within the parent agency. The final site selection is due to be made by June 2nd. To read the letter, click here.
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded Union Pacific Railroad’s investment of nearly $15 million in Metro East and Mt. Vernon rail projects. Union Pacific operates on tracks built and maintained by the company without using taxpayer funding. “Union Pacific continues to invest millions of dollars in critical rail infrastructure in Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “These important railway enhancements will help meet the needs of a growing local economy, while improving efficiency and transit safety.” “We constantly evaluate our customers' needs to make targeted investments that enhance our efficiency and deliver the goods American businesses and families use daily,” said Donna Kush, Union Pacific Vice President—Public Affairs, Northern Region. “Continuing to aggressively invest in our infrastructure is an important element in Union Pacific's unwavering safety commitment.” Union Pacific's planned investment of $78.8 million in the state of Illinois includes: $8.2 million investment in the rail line between East St. Louis and Chester to replace more than 60,000 railroad ties and install 27,000 tons of rock ballast; and $6.6 million investment in the rail line between Mt. Vernon and Whittington to replace 13 miles of rail.
05.04.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost issued the following statement after Houston-based Dynegy announced it would shut down its Southern Illinois coal-fueled power plants: “The Obama/Pelosi War on Coal claimed more casualties today. The announced partial shutdown of units at the Baldwin Power Station is in no small part due to the flood of anti-coal regulations proposed by this Administration. In fact, if you listed all of the President’s anti-coal regulations single-spaced on a scroll of paper, it would stretch more than 26 feet.” “Today’s announcement is just another example of unjustified EPA overreach resulting in increased energy costs and reduced jobs in Southern Illinois. My thoughts go out to these hardworking Illinois coal miners and their families as I offer any help I can provide to the communities impacted by this decision.”
05.02.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost authored a letter for public comment to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Kansas City District office concerning their recommendation that the new NGA West facility be constructed in North St. Louis. Bost highlighted security and environmental issues with the proposed site and questioned the accuracy of data in the Corps’ report, which improperly included findings tied to St. Clair counties in Missouri and Michigan. “I am deeply concerned with the flawed findings that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers issued as justification for the North St. Louis site,” said Bost. “The report’s factual errors, blatant omissions, and underestimated risks are nothing short of egregious. It is clear that the Corps did not adequately and objectively weigh all of the data before making its recommendation, a decision that will have profound consequences for national security and the proper investment of taxpayer dollars. I am compelled to continue fighting this wrongheaded decision during the public comment period and beyond.” Bost detailed a litany of concerns with the Corp’s report on the North St. Louis site, including: utilizing data that is geographically inaccurate to disqualify the St. Clair County site; failing to meet all but the bare minimum of security standards for perimeter standoff distances at the North St. Louis site; neglecting to fully study alleged contamination issues from Cold War-era chemical testing at North St. Louis’ old Pruitt-Igoe housing complex; and brushing aside objective cost projections that indicate the St. Clair County site is the more cost effective option. To read the entire letter submitted by Rep. Bost, click here.
04.27.2016	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced today that Southern Illinois fire departments have until Friday, May 6th, to apply for Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG). The grant program, offered by the Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency, provides funding to first responders to acquire new equipment, emergency vehicles, and training. “As a former firefighter, I understand how important it is that our first responders have the equipment and resources necessary to keep our families safe,” said Rep. Bost. “These critical resources can go a long way in helping small fire companies continue to serve our communities in the most secure and efficient way possible.” To apply for the AFG Grant Program, please visit FEMA's website by clicking here. For additional information on the AFG program, click here.
04.26.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) toured the Melvin Price Locks and Dam in East Alton and conducted a stakeholder’s meeting at the American Central Port in Granite City. Bost and Davis are gathering input on Metro East water infrastructure issues in advance of the upcoming reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, it’s important to me to see firsthand the condition of waterways infrastructure in Southern Illinois and what Congress can do to support it,” said Bost. “Today’s meeting with local stakeholders provided valuable insights that I can take back with me to Washington. The Metro East region is a hub for the Midwest’s transportation network, a network that, in turn, really drives economic vitality in our region.” "Our region’s waterways, chief among them the Mississippi and Illinois rivers, are a critical part of our economy,” said Davis. "We have a responsibility to upgrade and repair our waterways and this begins by reauthorizing a water resources bill every two years. Last Congress, we came together to pass the first water reauthorization in nearly seven years to streamline the approval process, increase the use of public-private partnerships, and help address the large backlog of projects. I want to build on these successes in the next bill and continue to cut through red tape that's preventing even greater economic growth.”
04.22.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost was joined by Sens. Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Reps. John Shimkus (R-IL) and Rodney Davis (R-IL) in authoring a letter to National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Robert Cardillo concerning the agency’s choice for the new NGA West facility. The delegation highlighted security issues with the proposed North St. Louis site and questioned the accuracy of data included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report, which improperly included findings tied to St. Clair counties in Missouri and Michigan. “It’s mind-boggling that we could spend over $196 billion in taxpayer dollars on a key national security project based on a fundamentally flawed environmental analysis,” said Rep. Bost. “This environmental study, which was critical to the site selection, has a blatant disregard for geographical accuracy, even going so far as to mistakenly reference St. Clair counties in Missouri and Michigan in its findings. “Add to that the fact that the North St. Louis site may barely meets minimum Defense Department security standards for standoff distances for force protection and that questions remain regarding alleged Cold War era contamination near the site, it’s clear that deeper consideration must be given before a final site location is announced. NGA needs to reconsider its preliminary decision and more carefully review the Scott Air Force Base location, which isn’t plagued by any of the issues attached to the North St. Louis site.” Force protection standards for Military Construction have traditionally compelled agencies with similarly sensitive national security missions to co-locate with existing military installations or in areas without encroachment issues. The full text of today’s letter is available here.
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, testified today before the Subcommittee on Health urging consideration of his VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act (H.R. 3956). Bost introduced the bipartisan legislation to require the agency to develop a plan that fills nearly three-dozen vacancies of permanent directors at VA medical centers across the country, including the John Cochran Medical Center in St. Louis. “I am very concerned about the lack of stability in leadership at the St. Louis VA and its impact on the treatment provided to our veterans,” said Rep. Bost. “After 33 months of cycling through temporary directors, the St. Louis facility is still without a permanent director to oversee long-term reforms. Sadly, this problem extends to dozens of VA medical centers across the country. My legislation would help put a stop to this revolving door so that we can get to work on implementing the forward-thinking vision that our heroes deserve.” Over the past three years, the St. Louis VA has been managed by more than seven different acting directors. The short-term uncertainty has impacted the ability of the system management to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to veterans. To read Rep. Bost’s entire testimony before the VA Committee, click here. To watch Rep. Bost’s testimony, click here.
04.19.2016	To watch Rep. Bost address his House colleagues on H.R. 3714, click here. Washington, D.C.—Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved legislation introduced by Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) to help smaller agriculture producers compete with large corporations for federal contracting opportunities. The Small Agricultural Producer Size Standards Improvement Act (H.R. 3714) modernizes Small Business Administration size standards for the agriculture industry, ensuring small businesses can compete on a level playing field. “I am proud that Republican and Democratic colleagues across the board came together to support my legislation,” said Bost. “This is an indication of the bipartisan commitment we share in modernizing agriculture size standards so our small businesses can compete on an even playing field. That’s a win for economic growth in Southern Illinois and an important step forward in empowering our famers and agriculture producers.” SBA size standards define what constitutes a small business, providing qualified companies with preferred status in federal prime and subcontracting opportunities. SBA size standards for agriculture producers are not subject to the same analysis and updates as other industries, thereby leaving America’s farmers to deal with an outdated and inaccurate classification. Bost’s bill amends the Small Business Act to empower the SBA to use the same metrics in establishing agricultural size standards that it does for other industries. In additional to helping smaller agriculture producers compete in the market, these reforms will ensure that federal agencies can better assess the impact of Washington regulations on agriculture producers. Congress removed the SBA’s ability to establish size standards for agriculture producers in 1985 and set the definition at $500,000 a year or less in gross receipts. The standard has been updated only once, in the year 2000 when it was set at $750,000, an extremely low threshold for a small margin industry. Bost’s bill, cosponsored by Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY), now advances to the Senate for further consideration.
04.12.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) testified before a joint hearing of U.S. Department of Commerce and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in Washington, D.C. on issues impacting America’s steel industry. Also testifying today were Dan Simmons, President of United Steelworkers Local 1899 in Granite City, and Madison County Board Chairman Alan Dunstan. Here is Rep. Bost's full testimony: Testimony of Representative Mike Bost Before the United States Department of Commerce / United States Trade Representative April 12, 2016 Thank you for holding today’s hearings. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss a very important discussion that hits home for many families in my district. I’ll be brief so you can hear directly from those impacted by the steel crisis – local officials and the steelworkers themselves. Steel production has always faced ups and downs, but today’s market conditions are the worst in years. Today’s crisis isn’t just about supply and demand. There’s less drilling… more regulations… and higher production costs. But let’s not forget one of the main causes of this crisis comes from overseas – with the non-market policies of competitors like China. These policies have created an unequal situation for American steel producers. When countries like China intervene in the market, they continue producing steel exports at below fair market value. This allows them to flood the U.S. market and undercut domestic companies. The consequences are measured not just on a balance sheet, but in the loss of many thousands of good-paying jobs. In my home of Southern Illinois, Granite City Works has stopped production and idled nearly 2,000 steel jobs. We still have no idea when they can return to work. These are hard working men and women. Some are second or third generation steelworkers. They have families to feed, and they deserve to be angry. Fair trade shouldn’t be a partisan issue. Many Republicans and many Democrats speak with one voice on this. When American workers lose their jobs due to unfair and illegal trade, they must have tools to protect themselves. Last year, Congress passed legislation I introduced to strengthen America’s trade remedy laws. Too often, anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations forced domestic companies to suffer permanent damage before they could seek help. I’m a firefighter by trade. That process would be like forcing a homeowner watch their home burn to the ground before they could call the fire department. It makes no sense. Because Congress acted in a bipartisan fashion, we now have tools to put the fire out when the first sparks ignite. The law now allows the government to select the most adverse facts available if a foreign firm refuses to cooperate with an investigation. It also allows a company to prove injury when unfairly traded imports result in a loss of income or profit. Further, it permits the Department of Commerce to more quickly impose preliminary and final tariffs on illegally-traded products. These measures are fully compliant with existing trade agreements. We shouldn’t hesitate to us them. We’ve taken some steps in the right direction with rulings on recent anti-dumping and countervailing duty petitions. However, it’s the final determinations that will give domestic companies the certainty they need to begin producing steel once again. In addition, I wish to add my voice to those opposing granting China Market Economy Status at the WTO. China is not a market economy. And granting them this concession could make it more difficult to fight steel and other product dumping. In closing, I urge you to please remember the voices of our steelworkers here today. They are on the front lines of this battle. And they are hurting. Let’s continue to fight for them. ###
04.06.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) joined his Illinois colleagues in authoring a letter to National Geospatial Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Robert Cardillo to formally request a 30-day public comment period on the location of the Next West NGA Campus. “We are requesting that Director Cardillo extend the public comment period from 15 to 30 days to provide everyone an adequate opportunity to digest and respond to NGA's findings,” said Rep. Bost. “An adequate comment period is absolutely necessary to present the evidence demonstrating that the St. Clair County site remains the superior location for the NGA West facility. It's the least we should expect for a decision of this magnitude.” Bost and other members of the Illinois delegation have been working closely with local stakeholders on relocating the NGA West from its current location in St. Louis to a site adjacent to Scott Air Force Base. In addition to Rep. Bost, the letter is signed by Sens. Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Mark Kirk (R-IL), Reps. John Shimkus (R-IL) and Rodney Davis (R-IL). To view a copy of the letter to Director Cardillo, click here.
04.04.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the names of the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, as well as an online competition on his congressional Facebook page. “We had an impressive 53 pieces of artwork that were submitted by high school students from ten different schools in Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Each talented student submitted their own vision of the best that Southern Illinois offers; and they were amazing. We commend each student for their participation and for letting Southern Illinois’ talent really shine.” The winner of the Congressional Art Competition was “Sunset Sovereignty,” by Carrie Thompson of Marion High School. Selected by an independent panel of local judges, Carrie’s artwork will hang in the Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. The Facebook “Fan Favorite” that received the most “likes” on Rep. Bost’s Facebook page is “Fly Me Home,” by Starr Shadowens of Carterville High School.
03.30.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced today that the National Science Foundation has awarded a $1 million grant to the “Southern Illinois Energy Scholarships” program at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. “This program provides scholarships to community college students who enroll in one of SIUC’s nine energy-related majors in science, technology, engineering or math,” said Rep. Bost. “Students in this program will participate in hands-on activities led by faculty and workforce professionals. This project will increase the number of students entering the energy workforce, which is critical to the economic development of Southern Illinois.”
03.23.2016	Washington, D.C. — Reps. Mike Bost (R-IL) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) authored a bipartisan letter this week urging Congressional leadership to prioritize the enforcement of United States trade remedy laws in upcoming appropriations legislation. Bost is working to ensure that a law he introduced and helped pass in June is fully implemented, thereby improving America’s trade remedy laws and empowering U.S. companies and workers to respond rapidly to illegally-traded imports. “When U.S. Steel announced the idling of Granite City Works, due in part to unfairly traded imports, I knew our trade remedies laws had to be fixed immediately,” said Rep. Bost. “I’m pleased that my legislation was signed into law to do just that; but the federal government must dedicate the resources necessary to investigate these anti-dumping and countervailing duty cases. This is a crossroads for America’s steel industry, as thousands of hardworking steel and iron workers are on layoff and multiple steel facilities have been idled.” “I’m pleased to join my colleague, Congressman Mike Bost, in leading this important letter,” Rep. Nolan said. “Strong trade enforcement is crucial to our economy and national security. The illegal dumping of foreign-subsidized, subpar steel has jeopardized the very survival of our nation’s iron ore mining and steel industries and put thousands of people on Minnesota’s Iron Range and across the country out of work.” “There are three trade cases currently pending at the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission on flat-rolled steel products which are crucial to the industry,” said Tom Gibson, President and CEO of the American Iron and Steel Institute. “These large cases could impact a significant amount of foreign steel imports and involve a dozen different countries. The size and reach of these cases make them extremely labor intensive for the government to analyze, and we greatly appreciate Congressmen Mike Bost (R-IL) and Rick Nolan’s (D-MN) efforts to ensure that there are sufficient resources directed toward ensuring these cases are thoroughly and efficiently investigated.” The application of these remedies is particularly important to the steel industry, including the U.S. Steel’s Granite City Works, whose economic fortunes have been buffeted by falling demand brought on by low oil prices and a surge of foreign imports, many of which are unfairly traded. According to an industry poll released today, approximately 82 percent of Americans feel the loss of steel jobs and unfairly traded imports are very important issues facing the country. More than 60 House members joined Bost’s effort, including representatives Rodney Davis, John Shimkus, Ann Wagner, Jason Smith, and Blaine Leutkemeyer. To see a copy of the letter, click here.
03.22.2016	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) voted to give members of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) full military honors and burial rights at Arlington National Cemetery. WASP, a World War II era organization of 1,100 women who flew non-combat military missions, included a station at Lawrenceville, Illinois. “As our entire nation mobilized to fight evil and tyranny during World War II, many women participated in the war effort as members of WASP,” said Rep. Bost. “They left their homes, families and previous occupations to fight for our freedoms; now they deserve full veteran’s status for their service. That begins with giving these heroes full burial rights at Arlington National Cemetery.” To watch Rep. Bost address his colleagues on the House Floor, click here.
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to authorize the House to file a historic legal brief challenging the constitutionality of President Obama’s executive order on illegal immigration. Prior to House passage of the resolution, Rep. Bost addressed his colleagues urging them to join him in upholding Congress’ exclusive authority to make law. “There’s one document that must guide everything we do here; that document is the U.S. Constitution,” said Rep. Bost. “I swore an oath to uphold the Constitution, and I’m fulfilling that oath. I expect the President to do the same. Unfortunately, he’s repeatedly chosen to ignore laws he does not personally like, and even create new law where none exists. It doesn’t work that way. “The laws of this nation clearly state that individuals who are here illegally must be removed. When the President subverts the law’s intent by cherry picking who stays and who goes, he is abandoning his enforcement responsibility under the Constitution. Congress cannot let this executive amnesty stand, and that’s why it’s so important we take our fight to the Courts.” H. Res. 639 allows the Speaker of the House to file an amicus brief to act as an impartial advisor in the United States v. Texas case, which will examine the constitutionality of President Obama’s DAPA program, which he enacted through executive order in November 2014. This is the first time the House of Representatives has voted to file such a brief to the United States Supreme Court. To watch Rep. Bost address his House colleagues on this issue, click here. ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to protect 19 coal refuse-to-energy facilities across America, including the Southern Illinois Cooperative in Marion, from job-killing EPA regulations. The House-passed Satisfying Energy Needs and Saving the Environment (SENSE) Act turns back two EPA regulations that would have prevented the Williamson County plant and others from utilizing coal refuse in energy production, provided operations remain within state air emission limits. “This is just another example of unjustified EPA overreach that would result increased energy costs and reduced jobs in Southern Illinois,” said Bost. “The facility in Williamson County is a specialized power plant that recycles coal refuse by using it as an energy source to generate affordable and reliable electricity for Southern Illinoisans. Knocking this plant offline would have serious consequences for consumers, jobs and the environment.” The 19 coal refuse-to-energy facilities nationwide create an estimated 1,200 direct jobs and 4,000 indirect jobs. These facilities have removed 214 million tons of coal refuse from the environment at no expense to taxpayers.
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) was presented with the “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his pro-jobs voting record in Congress. Rep. Bost received a 100 percent rating from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his first year voting record in Congress. “Small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy in Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “As a small business owner myself, I will continue to fight for our job creators and the hardworking men and women they employ. We still have too many people still looking for work due to job-killing taxes and burdensome regulations which halt business expansion and entrepreneurship. It’s time for Washington to get out of the way so Main Streets across America can create good jobs from the ground up.” The “Spirit of Enterprise” Award is presented annually to Members of Congress who are strong supporters of free enterprise in America by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
02.23.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement on President Obama’s plan to close the Guantanamo Bay Prison: “The President has shown time and again – through his Iran nuclear deal, his support for the Syrian refugee program, and now his plans to close Guantanamo Bay – that he will put political talking points ahead of securing the homeland. That’s a dangerous precedent and one that I will continue to fight by every means possible. It is not only wrongheaded to transfer detainees to American soil, it is illegal, and it needs to stay that way.”
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) and John Shimkus (IL-15), and representatives from the offices of Rodney Davis (IL-13), Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Governor Bruce Rauner (R-IL), met with National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Director Robert Cardillo to highlight the benefits relocating the agency’s western headquarters to St. Clair County. “Any objective observer would come to the conclusion that the St. Clair County site makes the most sense in terms of cost, infrastructure access, and national security,” said Rep. Bost. “In a world that seems to become more unstable by the day, it is critical that our intelligence community have the tools to do their jobs effectively. The site adjacent to Scott Air Force Base provides NGA with the best efficiencies, synergies and force protection capabilities available.” “Siting the new NGA West facility should be based upon what’s best for the agency and its mission, not what’s most politically expedient,” said Rep. Shimkus. “By every measure and metric that matters, the St. Clair County site adjacent to Scott AFB is the obvious and best choice.” “At a time when our country faces serious threats at home and abroad, our military must have the ability to upgrade and enhance our security networks," said Rep. Davis. "I believe the Saint Clair County site adjacent to Scott Air Force Base will provide the NGA with the best opportunity to improve our antiterrorism operations and ultimately help keep Americans safe.” National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) provides timely, relevant and accurate geospatial intelligence in support of national security. To learn more about NGA and its mission, click here.
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court voted to halt the enforcement of President Obama’s restrictive energy regulations: “The President’s climate agenda would kill jobs, increase costs, and decrease the reliability of our energy supply. If the Administration’s rule War on Coal is successful, it will have devastating consequences for families across Southern Illinois – not just for those who work in the industry, but also for low income families who rely upon affordable sources of energy. By halting the President’s executive overreach until the states have had their concerns fully weighed, the Court has helped deliver a big win for hardworking families in the 12th District.”
02.04.2016	Washington, DC – Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) today welcomed U.S. Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) as a newly appointed member of the Committee. “Congressman Bost’s background in small business and in the state legislature makes him a great addition to the Transportation Committee,” Shuster said. “His various experiences and perspectives as a small business owner and a manager in his family’s trucking business, as a first responder, and as a pilot will serve him well, and benefit the work the Committee does in overseeing the nation’s transportation network and federal emergency response programs. I welcome him to the Committee, and look forward to working together.” “As someone who grew up in and later managed a family trucking business, I am excited to roll up my sleeves and get to work on the committee,” said Bost. “Under Chairman Shuster’s leadership, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has been an important voice for job creation, economic growth, and regulatory reform. I look forward to bringing my firsthand experience to the dais for these important deliberations.” Rep. Bost has also been appointed to serve on three subcommittees including Highways and Transit; Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials; and Water Resources and Environment. Rep. Bost was appointed to fill an existing vacancy on the Committee.
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for a package of bipartisan bills that will help small businesses on Main Streets across Southern Illinois have easier access to the capital they need to grow the economy and create jobs. “As a small business owner myself, I understand that small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy,” said Rep. Bost. “But in order to grow our economy, we must make it easier for our small businesses to expand and create jobs without excessive government red tape and regulations. This legislation accomplishes that; plus it helps provide certainty for their future.” The Capitol Markets Improvement Act of 2016 (H.R. 1675) will cut back on excessive Washington regulations that make it harder for small businesses on Main Street to grow and create jobs—sustaining economic growth and increasing paychecks.
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to override President Obama’s veto of legislation to dismantle Obamacare, defund Planned Parenthood and slash the deficit by more than half-a-trillion dollars. The House originally passed the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act last month. “I am going to continue sending a strong message to President Obama that the American people want Obamacare repealed,” said Rep. Bost. “This failed legislation has done nothing but add government bureaucracy to healthcare, driving up costs and driving down access. Additionally, this bill would take a strong stand by defunding Planned Parenthood and diverting the money to women's community health clinics. No person should be forced to compromise his or her conscience on matters of protecting life by having their tax dollars subsidize such actions.” According to the Congressional Budget Office, repealing major provisions of Obamacare would reduce the deficit by $516 billion over the next 10 years.
02.02.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced today his appointment to the high profile House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. For a decade he managed Bost Trucking, a third generation family trucking business started by his grandfather in 1933. “It’s an honor that my colleagues have entrusted me to serve on this very prestigious committee after just one year in Congress,” said Rep. Bost. “From highways and railways to airways and waterways, the Transportation Committee is where the rubber meets the road for job creation and economic growth in America. I look forward to continuing Southern Illinois’ rich legacy on the Transportation Committee, which dates back to former Rep. Jerry Costello’s quarter century of service on the committee and former Rep. Ken Gray before him." In addition to having jurisdiction over all modes of transportation, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee also plays a key role in setting the agenda on clean water and waste water management, the transport of resources by pipeline, flood damage reduction, and the management of federally-owned real estate and public buildings. Bost will continue to serve on the House Committees on Agriculture and Veterans’ Affairs.
01.21.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the list of 23 Southern Illinois students that he has nominated to four United States service academies—the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. Congressional nomination is the first step in a process toward the students’ acceptance into a military academy. “Southern Illinoisans should be proud of each one of these students who represent the best our state has to offer,” said Rep. Bost. “These exceptional candidates I’m nominating will be soon leading their peers. I’m proud that Southern Illinois produces some of the best students in this country to lead a new generation. Because of the commitment they have already shown, I thank them for their patriotism and leadership in the years to come.” A reception will be held on Thursday night at Rep. Bost’s Belleville office located at 23 Public Square, Suite 404 beginning at 6:00pm. Col. Laura L. Lenderman, the Commander of the 375th Air Mobility Wing at Scott Air Force Base, will address the candidates during the ceremony. The following students were nominated by Rep. Bost based on their academic performance, extracurricular activity in their communities and personal recommendations: St. Clair County Abigail Anderson will graduate from Belleville Township High School East in St. Clair County this spring. She was a member of the varsity track and cross country squads. Abigail is also a member of the National Honor Society. She also participated in the For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST) Robotics Competition. Abigail has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Noah Carpenter will graduate from Freeburg Community High School in St. Clair County this spring. Noah participated in the Scholar Bowl, Drafting Team and the Science Club. Noah is currently a Petty Officer with the U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps. Noah has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Noah Crum will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. He currently has a 4.0 GPA. Noah excelled in Science, Mathematics, and English preparatory classes and was a member of the National Honor Society. Noah has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Alexander Diel is currently attending Althoff Catholic High School in St. Clair County. He is in honors English, Spanish, Anatomy/Physiology and History. He is also captain of the bowling team and soccer team. Alexander served as a math tutor at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Grade School. He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Hannah Davenport will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. Hannah is very active in the First Baptist Church of O’Fallon and several Christian youth organizations. She is also a member of the school show choir as the dance captain. Hannah has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Lauren DeLapp will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. She currently has a 4.3 GPA. Lauren was captain of the varsity competitive dance team and Leadership Council. She was also a member of the National Honors Society and dance team. Lauren has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Joshua Ellis is a graduate of Marion High School in St. Clair County and is currently attending the U.S. Air Force Academy in Estes Park, CO. In high school, Joshua worked on the video crew for the varsity football and basketball teams. He also volunteered at the Marion Veteran’s Administration Hospital in the administration department. Joseph Heard will graduate from Belleville East High School in St. Clair County this spring. Joseph is the founding member of the District 201 JROTC Club Color Guard and also served as the Commanding Officer for the club. Joseph has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Michael Hovick will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Michael currently has a 3.98 GPA. He is a member of the Future Business Leaders of America, the Gold Rush Club and the National Honors Society. Michael also participated on the school’s basketball and volleyball teams. He also attended Illinois Premier Boys State. Michael has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jacob Hettenhausen will graduate from Columbia High School in St. Clair County this spring. Jacob has a 4.17 GPA. He has been active in the Scholar Bowl, been a member of the varsity track team and been in the school marching band all four years. Jacob is also a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Jacob has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Adriel Moran will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Adriel was a member of the National Honors Society and was a finalist of the Military Child of the Year in 2013. He was a member of the varsity swim team and attended Illinois Boys State in 2014. Adriel has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Bret Silvestri is a graduate of Althoff Catholic High School in St. Clair County and is currently attending Schreiner University in Kerrville, TX. Bret was a member of the high school football team and served as team captain. He was also a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and the YMCA. Bret has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Bradley Thomas, Jr. will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. Bradley was active in the JROTC Color Guard, serving as the Deputy Corps Commander. He was also a member of the National Honors Society and a distinguished graduate of the Summer Leadership School. Bradley has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Ian Raska will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. He was a member of the National Honors Society and attended Illinois Boys State in July of 2015. Ian is now a Field Associate for the Political Action Committee Americans for Prosperity (AFP). He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Taylor Weir graduated from Althoff Catholic High School in St. Clair County last year. She was a member of the National Honors Society and played on the varsity softball team. Taylor was also a member of the dance team. She is currently attending Missouri State University. Taylor has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Taylor Woody will graduate from Dupo High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Taylor is currently the Mission Support Commander with the JROTC. She was also elected President of the Student Council. Taylor attended leadership school at Scott Air Force Base. Taylor has been nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy. Madison County Jordan Brown will graduate from Metro-East Lutheran High School in Edwardsville, located in Madison County this spring. Jordan was a member of the varsity golf, baseball and basketball teams. He was also a member of the National Honor Society and co-founder of the Engineering Club. He also attended the U.S. Air Force Teen Leadership Summit in Estes Park, CO. Jordan has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Ben Moyer will graduate from Alton High School in Madison County this spring. He currently has a 4.5 GPA. Ben participated in the National Skeet Shooting and Amateur Trapshooting Associations and the Alton Wood River Sportsman’s Club Men’s Trap League. He also volunteered his time with the American Red Cross and Salvation Army. Ben has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christian Porter graduated from Alton High School in Madison County with a 3.95 GPA. Christian is currently a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School. He is also a member of the Honor Flight and Vanguard Leadership Project. In high school, Christian was a member of the National Honors Society and the varsity football and track teams. Chase Zezoff will graduate from Granite City Senior High School in Madison County this spring. Chase currently has a 5.4 GPA. He’s a member of the National Honor Society, played on the varsity tennis squad, and served as a Peer Tutor. Chase also participated in the Scholar Bowl. He has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jackson County Cameron Hudgins will graduate from the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy in in the spring. Cameron is from Jackson County. Cameron is an Eagle Scout and received the Illinois State Scholar Award in 2015. He also received the Top Ten Award at Carbondale Community High School. Cameron has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Joshua Loyd will graduate from Carbondale Community High School in Jackson County in the spring. Joshua is a member of the U.S. Air Force Auxiliary Civil Air Patrol and attended the American Legion Boys State. In addition, Joshua is member of the Boy Scouts of America and is scheduled to receive his Eagle Scout rank. Joshua has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Franklin County Taylor Yucus will graduate from Benton Consolidated High School in Franklin County this spring. He currently has a 4.1 GPA. Taylor participated in the Scholar Bowl, was a member of the National Honors Society and the Quad-State Choir. Taylor has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Williamson County Tommy Wilson will graduate from Marion High School in Williamson County. Tommy was a member of the National Honor Society, the varsity football team and varsity tennis squad. He was also involved in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and FFA. Tommy has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
01.21.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the list of 23 Southern Illinois students that he has nominated to four United States service academies—the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Military Academy and the Merchant Marine Academy. Congressional nomination is the first step in a process toward the students’ acceptance into a military academy. “Southern Illinoisans should be proud of each one of these students who represent the best our state has to offer,” said Rep. Bost. “These exceptional candidates I’m nominating will be soon leading their peers. I’m proud that Southern Illinois produces some of the best students in this country to lead a new generation. Because of the commitment they have already shown, I thank them for their patriotism and leadership in the years to come.” A reception will be held on Thursday night at Rep. Bost’s Belleville office located at 23 Public Square, Suite 404 beginning at 6:00pm. Col. Laura L. Lenderman, the Commander of the 375th Air Mobility Wing at Scott Air Force Base, will address the candidates during the ceremony. The following students were nominated by Rep. Bost based on their academic performance, extracurricular activity in their communities and personal recommendations: St. Clair County Abigail Anderson will graduate from Belleville Township High School East in St. Clair County this spring. She was a member of the varsity track and cross country squads. Abigail is also a member of the National Honor Society. She also participated in the For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology (FIRST) Robotics Competition. Abigail has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Noah Carpenter will graduate from Freeburg Community High School in St. Clair County this spring. Noah participated in the Scholar Bowl, Drafting Team and the Science Club. Noah is currently a Petty Officer with the U.S. Naval Sea Cadet Corps. Noah has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Noah Crum will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. He currently has a 4.0 GPA. Noah excelled in Science, Mathematics, and English preparatory classes and was a member of the National Honor Society. Noah has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Alexander Diel is currently attending Althoff Catholic High School in St. Clair County. He is in honors English, Spanish, Anatomy/Physiology and History. He is also captain of the bowling team and soccer team. Alexander served as a math tutor at Blessed Sacrament Catholic Grade School. He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Hannah Davenport will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. Hannah is very active in the First Baptist Church of O’Fallon and several Christian youth organizations. She is also a member of the school show choir as the dance captain. Hannah has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Lauren DeLapp will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. She currently has a 4.3 GPA. Lauren was captain of the varsity competitive dance team and Leadership Council. She was also a member of the National Honors Society and dance team. Lauren has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Joshua Ellis is a graduate of Marion High School in St. Clair County and is currently attending the U.S. Air Force Academy in Estes Park, CO. In high school, Joshua worked on the video crew for the varsity football and basketball teams. He also volunteered at the Marion Veteran’s Administration Hospital in the administration department. Joseph Heard will graduate from Belleville East High School in St. Clair County this spring. Joseph is the founding member of the District 201 JROTC Club Color Guard and also served as the Commanding Officer for the club. Joseph has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Michael Hovick will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Michael currently has a 3.98 GPA. He is a member of the Future Business Leaders of America, the Gold Rush Club and the National Honors Society. Michael also participated on the school’s basketball and volleyball teams. He also attended Illinois Premier Boys State. Michael has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jacob Hettenhausen will graduate from Columbia High School in St. Clair County this spring. Jacob has a 4.17 GPA. He has been active in the Scholar Bowl, been a member of the varsity track team and been in the school marching band all four years. Jacob is also a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Jacob has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Adriel Moran will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Adriel was a member of the National Honors Society and was a finalist of the Military Child of the Year in 2013. He was a member of the varsity swim team and attended Illinois Boys State in 2014. Adriel has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Bret Silvestri is a graduate of Althoff Catholic High School in St. Clair County and is currently attending Schreiner University in Kerrville, TX. Bret was a member of the high school football team and served as team captain. He was also a member of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and the YMCA. Bret has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Bradley Thomas, Jr. will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. Bradley was active in the JROTC Color Guard, serving as the Deputy Corps Commander. He was also a member of the National Honors Society and a distinguished graduate of the Summer Leadership School. Bradley has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Ian Raska will graduate from O’Fallon Township High School in St. Clair County this spring. He was a member of the National Honors Society and attended Illinois Boys State in July of 2015. Ian is now a Field Associate for the Political Action Committee Americans for Prosperity (AFP). He has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Taylor Woody will graduate from Dupo High School in St. Clair County in the spring. Taylor is currently the Mission Support Commander with the JROTC. She was also elected President of the Student Council. Taylor attended leadership school at Scott Air Force Base. Taylor has been nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy. Madison County Jordan Brown will graduate from Metro-East Lutheran High School in Edwardsville, located in Madison County this spring. Jordan was a member of the varsity golf, baseball and basketball teams. He was also a member of the National Honor Society and co-founder of the Engineering Club. He also attended the U.S. Air Force Teen Leadership Summit in Estes Park, CO. Jordan has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Ben Moyer will graduate from Alton High School in Madison County this spring. He currently has a 4.5 GPA. Ben participated in the National Skeet Shooting and Amateur Trapshooting Associations and the Alton Wood River Sportsman’s Club Men’s Trap League. He also volunteered his time with the American Red Cross and Salvation Army. Ben has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Christian Porter graduated from Alton High School in Madison County with a 3.95 GPA. Christian is currently a cadet at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School. He is also a member of the Honor Flight and Vanguard Leadership Project. In high school, Christian was a member of the National Honors Society and the varsity football and track teams. Chase Zezoff will graduate from Granite City Senior High School in Madison County this spring. Chase currently has a 5.4 GPA. He’s a member of the National Honor Society, played on the varsity tennis squad, and served as a Peer Tutor. Chase also participated in the Scholar Bowl. He has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Jackson County Cameron Hudgins will graduate from the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy in in the spring. Cameron is from Jackson County. Cameron is an Eagle Scout and received the Illinois State Scholar Award in 2015. He also received the Top Ten Award at Carbondale Community High School. Cameron has been nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy. Joshua Loyd will graduate from Carbondale Community High School in Jackson County in the spring. Joshua is a member of the U.S. Air Force Auxiliary Civil Air Patrol and attended the American Legion Boys State. In addition, Joshua is member of the Boy Scouts of America and is scheduled to receive his Eagle Scout rank. Joshua has been nominated to the U.S. Military Academy. Franklin County Taylor Yucus will graduate from Benton Consolidated High School in Franklin County this spring. He currently has a 4.1 GPA. Taylor participated in the Scholar Bowl, was a member of the National Honors Society and the Quad-State Choir. Taylor has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Williamson County Tommy Wilson will graduate from Marion High School in Williamson County. Tommy was a member of the National Honor Society, the varsity football team and varsity tennis squad. He was also involved in the Fellowship of Christian Athletes and FFA. Tommy has been nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy.
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for a repeal of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. The crippling measure, imposed by the Obama Administration under the guise of strengthening the health of our waterways, would expand federal regulatory authority to almost any body of water in America – including ditches, culverts, and farmland ponds. “I will not stand idly by while federal bureaucrats try to tell our farmers and family businesses how to use their land,” said Rep. Bost. “I support clean water; but I don’t support imposing crushing D.C. regulations that will put Southern Illinois’ proud agricultural heritage at risk and impact millions of hardworking rural Americans. This unpresented power grab into our waters upends the balanced, federal-state partnership that has regulated U.S. waters for more than 40 years under the Clean Water Act.” The WOTUS rule significantly expands the scope of federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act (CWA), undermining the role of the states as partners and co-regulators of the nation’s waters.
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. — Tonight, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama addressed both Houses of Congress during his final State of the Union address at the U.S. Capitol: “President Obama sought to secure his legacy and reset the tone in Washington tonight. However, he undermined both by continuing to minimize the greatest global threat of our times. In labeling ISIS nothing more than ‘fighters on the back of pickup trucks,’ the President has shown that he still fails to grasp the serious challenges we face and will do little to offer solutions. American families want to feel safe, and they deserve better than sugarcoated rhetoric.” “This is no time for victory laps on the domestic front either, where 5.5 million more Americans are in poverty and 12.7 million Americans have dropped out of the workforce over the last eight years. While I remain hopeful the President will be compelled to work with Republicans to find solutions in his final year in office, tonight’s speech was not a good start.”
01.12.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to delay the implementation of new stream buffer zones around mining operations by the Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation and Enforcement (OSMRE). Rep. Bost previously cosponsored the legislation to ensure transparency in the rule making process and protect the coal industry and hundreds of Southern Illinois jobs from crushing overregulation. “More overly burdensome rules and regulations by the Obama Administration would wipe out hundreds of jobs in Southern Illinois and hundreds of thousands nationwide,” said Rep. Bost. “The impact of such a serious hit to the coal industry would increase home energy prices for hardworking families already struggling to get ahead. That’s why I voted to turn back yet another Washington-based mandate that would hurt our economy.” The Supporting Transparent Regulatory and Environmental Actions in Mining Act (H.R. 1644) also prevents OSMRE from seizing duplicative regulatory jurisdiction from other agencies, namely the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which already has similar regulatory authority under the Clean Water Act.
01.11.2016	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) joined 35 House colleagues on Friday in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell urging him to make good on his promise to bring the American SAFE Act to a vote in the Senate. The American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act (H.R. 4038) requires enhanced screening and background checks for Syrian and Iraqi refugees before being considered for admittance into the United States. “Our government’s first Constitutional duty is to provide for a strong national defense,” said Rep. Bost. “In the wake of two Iraqi refugees being arrested in the U.S. for ties to terrorism, we must put the strongest possible measures to vet those crossing our borders and keep Americans safe. That’s why a halt in the refugee program must happen immediately and last until we have a strict background check system in place.”
01.06.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to dismantle Obamacare, defund Planned Parenthood and slash the deficit by more than half-a-trillion dollars, as the House passed the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. “President Obama promised his failed health care law would reduce costs and improve access to quality care,” said Rep. Bost. “Instead, we’ve seen just the opposite happen. The American people now know this plan is unaffordable and unworkable and needs to be replaced. Southern Illinoisans should have the right to make their own health care choices, minus the dictates of Washington bureaucrats.” “In addition, our constituents should not be forced to support organizations whose agenda and practices violate their core moral beliefs,” added Bost. “Planned Parenthood’s business of selling fetal body parts is an example of these practices. That’s why I support directing these funds to the dozens of federally-qualified health centers and clinics located throughout the 12th Congressional District.” The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015: Repeals the Obamacare slush fund and eliminates the individual and employer mandates; Repeals the medical device and “Cadillac” tax; Eliminates federal funding for Planned Parenthood; Reduces the deficit by $516 billion over the 2016-2025 period; Provides grants to states to respond to the substance abuse and mental health crisis; and Directs women’s health funding to Federally Qualified Health Centers. There are 51 Rural Health Centers and Federally Qualified Health Centers in the 12th Congressional District compared to one Planned Parenthood clinic.
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s Executive Action to restrict Second Amendment rights: “Ever since taking office, the President has made it clear he was taking aim at American’s Constitutional right to bear arms. Today is no exception. The President’s actions are not only legally dubious, but they impose substantial burdens on law-abiding citizens while doing little to nothing to stop criminals.” “As a father and grandfather, I’ve shared in the heartbreak we all feel when news breaks of another tragedy. That being said, if the President was serious about stopping the criminal use of firearms, he would more rigorously enforce existing laws rather than sidestepping Congressional authority and trying to make the laws himself.”
12.30.2015	Because I want to do everything I can to provide Southern Illinoisans with the resources they need should this flood damage or destroy property, I am providing residents with the following links for up-to-date information concerning the Flood of 2015. For a list of available Red Cross shelters should you need to evacuate your home or business, click HERE. For a list of the latest road closings throughout Southern Illinois, click HERE. Most importantly, please DO NOT attempt to drive your car into a high water area. We have already seen tragedy associated with residents trying to cross roadways in order to get to higher elevations. If you have any questions, please contact my office in Belleville at (618) 233-8026 or in Carbondale at (618) 457-5787. The most important thing you can do is pray for our residents, first responders and all those directly impacted by this flooding. Thank you. Mike. Our next stop was Alexander County where we talked to workers and local officials at the county highway garage in Olive Branch. I'm continuing our tour of areas in the 12th District most prone to flooding or that have already seen flooding. We're now in Grand Tower, one of the areas that may see some of the worst flooding, talking with residents and officials in that community. We've had wonderful response and communication from the Army Corps of Engineers. With me addressing questions from residents and officials in Grand Tower is Major General Michael Wehr. A critical part of getting needed information out to our residents is the local media and I thank them for doing, just that. Reporters from WSIL TV 3 and KFVS TV 12 were here, talking to residents and us about the latest flooding information to pass on to their viewers. Thank you for helping Southern Illinoisans stay informed! In Alton, dozens of volunteers helped place sandbags ahead of where water is expected to rise. Mayor Brant Walker told me flooding was expected in the basements of the downtown business district but they are preparing for the worst. We also met with officials from FEMA as we continue communication with all the federal, state and local agencies involved to work together in helping our Southern Illinoisans. As I continue to tour the areas of the District impacted by the flooding, I stopped in Alton to talk with Mayor Brant Walker. Alton is along the Mississippi River in Madison County and is about 15 miles north of St. Louis. It's been an amazing experience seeing Southern Illinoisans coming out to help their neighbors, even though many have never met. I was touched to see members of the Civic Memorial High School football team in Bethalto come to Alton to help fill sand bags. The Southern Illinois spirit is strong as we help each other! If you get a chance, please share this photo to let others know what these young men did for their community! Please continue to pray for all those impacted by this severe flooding from our residents to our local businesses and our first responders. The response of Southern Illinoisans to help their neighbors has been overwhelming. If you need to move to a shelter, here's a site that will provide you with that information. Just click on the state of Illinois and look to the right of the screen. It's there where you'll find the current list of shelters in Southern Illinois operated by the Red Cross. You can access that website, HERE. For the latest information on road closures, flood warnings and watches, you can go to a site maintained by the State of Illinois. It is updated on a regular basis. To find out more, click HERE.
12.21.2015	I am writing to invite all high school students from Illinois’ 12th Congressional District to participate in the annual Congressional Art Competition. This year I am pleased to announce the theme for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. It is, “Southern Illinois: The Place I Call Home.” As you know, the 12th Congressional District of Illinois is a unique part of America filled with memorable places, a diverse and hardworking workforce and families who take great pride in their heritage. I look forward to seeing this year’s submissions and learning why these young artists are proud to call Southern Illinois their home. Please watch this video to watch a preview of where the winning entry will be placed in the United States Capitol! Congressional Art Competition Rules and Regulations: All artwork must be two-dimensional. Each framed artwork can be no larger than 28 inches long, 28 inches wide and 4 inches deep. Artwork should not weigh more than 15 pounds. Accepted mediums for the two-dimensional artwork are as follows: Paintings: Oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: Colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal Collages: Must be two dimensional Prints: Lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed Media: Use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolors, and computer-generated art photographs. Each entry must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. Work must be in the original medium (not a scanned reproduction of a painting or drawing). A typed copy of the Student Information and Release Form signed by the teacher, a parent or guardian and the student must be securely attached to the back of the artwork to certify the originality of the piece. Please retain a copy for your records.
12.18.2015	Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for a year-end funding package that will keep the federal government operating for the next fiscal year. The bipartisan legislation – which passed the House by an overwhelming 316-113 margin – tightens restrictions on the Visa Waiver Program, funds national security priorities, extends vital tax relief, blocks EPA overreach, and lifts a 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports. “While this legislation may not have included everything we wanted, it does make significant reforms that are win-wins for Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Now that we’ve come together to provide long-term certainty for our military members, small businesses, and hardworking families in Southern Illinois, we can now redouble our efforts on the important initiatives that were not included in this bill and hopefully make progress there as well.” 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Bill for Southern Illinois: Strengthening National Security: Strengthens national security by tightening requirements under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) and increases funds so that our troops have the resources they need to confront more radical and more complex enemies; and Ensures Scott Air Force Base and other military installations receive the funding they need to keep America safe. Spurring Economic Growth: Lifts the government’s 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports which will encourage investment, spur innovation, at create jobs here at home; Permanently extends vital tax relief for Southern Illinoisans and allows for inflation in 2016; Prevents a taxpayer bailout of Obamacare’s risk corridors program and reduces Obamacare tax burdens on hardworking Americans; and Extends bonus depreciation treatment for property through 2019, which is extremely important for job creation and economic growth in the nation’s agricultural and manufacturing sectors. Reining In Executive Overreach: Stops the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from suppressing free speech by interfering with the civic participation of non-profit organizations; and Rejects funding for new or expanded EPA programs that let top-down bureaucrats pick winners and losers and holds the agency to its lowest spending levels since 2008.
12.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—On Tuesday, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to strengthen the security of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by supporting the bipartisan Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act (H.R. 158). “In a world that seemingly grows less safe by the day, this legislation addresses the vulnerabilities of the Visa Waiver Program by putting in place stronger security measures,” said Rep. Bost. “The bill requires participating countries to provide counterterrorism information and other critical intelligence for those who have traveled to terrorist hotspots, like Iraq and Syria. This is a common sense step forward in keeping American families safe.” In order to address these vulnerabilities, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 will: Give the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to suspend a country’s participation in the program if they fail to share counterterrorism information with the U.S.; Deny Visa Waiver Program status to those citizens from participating countries that have traveled to certain terrorist hotspots since 2011; Require all Visa Waiver Program countries use fraud resistant “e-passports;” and Allow for the suspension of high-risk countries.
12.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—This week, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) sent a letter to the Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers urging a halt to the potential construction of the St. Johns Bayou and New Madrid Floodway project in Missouri. Concerns have been raised that the Missouri project could increase flood risk on the Illinois side of the river, particularly in the city of Cairo. “I believe that construction of the St. Johns Bayou project could further complicate the U.S. Army Corps decision-making on a potential future activation of the floodway, especially during rapidly unfolding emergencies like the Flood of 2011,” said Rep. Bost. “The New Madrid Floodway was authorized and constructed to reduce water levels during periods of extreme flows down the Mississippi River and the overall system should be managed by primarily for that purpose. For this reason, I urge you to consider a recommendation of no action on the construction project.” The Army Corps of Engineers is in the process of completing a Final Environmental Impact Statement on the proposed project that will determine the agency’s next course of action, such as whether to not to move forward with construction.
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for H.R. 8—the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act—which will maximize America’s energy potential to make our energy infrastructure more resilient and create jobs. “This legislation will update and modernize outdated policies and focus on today’s energy abundance in places like Southern Illinois and locations all over the United States,” said Rep. Bost. “But we need to modernize the energy infrastructure by making it easier for the private sector to invest in new energy projects by cutting down on government red tape and regulations, which are slowing down the permitting process.” H.R. 8 is a Broad Energy Bill that Seeks to Maximize America’s Energy Potential by: Modernizing Energy Infrastructure: focus on the transmission, distribution, and storage of energy to ensure we have the necessary infrastructure to meet today’s modern energy challenges. It also cuts down on government red tape to open doors for the private sector to invest in new energy projects, creating jobs. Protecting the Electricity System: ensure the electric grid is secure, resilient, and reliable. Strengthening Energy Security and Diplomacy: take important steps to strengthen partnerships with our allies and reform the approval process for energy exports. Improving Energy Efficiency and Government Accountability: promote simple and affordable methods to address energy demand and lower electric bills while reducing government waste.
11.23.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) submitted formal comments on the United States Army Corps of Engineers Draft Environmental Impact Statement highlighting the benefits of locating the next National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency West campus at a proposed site in St. Clair County adjacent to Scott Air Force Base. He was joined in this effort by fellow Metro-East Congressional Delegation members John Shimkus (IL-15) and Rodney Davis (IL-13). “We believe this report significantly understates costs and overestimates benefits of the Missouri Site, while overestimating costs and understating benefits of the Scott Air Force Base (Scott AFB) Site in St. Clair County,” said Rep. Bost. “The Scott AFB (St. Clair) Site is the best option to help the NGA achieve its stated mission to ‘deliver world-class geospatial intelligence that provides a decisive advantage to policymakers, warfighters, intelligence professionals and first responders. The governments and residents of the Metro-East region are united in their desire to recruit NGA West to St. Clair County.” The letter contains formal comments from the Delegation in response to the Corps’ Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The United States Army Corps of Engineers released a Draft EIS assessing the qualities of four competing sites for the new NGA West campus that includes the St. Clair County site adjacent to Scott Air Force Base and three in Missouri.
11.19.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) joined nearly all House Republicans and 47 House Democrats in voting for H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The bill requires enhanced screening and background checks for Syrian and Iraqi refugees before being considered for admittance into the United States. “America has a proud tradition of providing safe haven to refugees, and we lead the world in humanitarian assistance,” said Rep. Bost. “But in today’s world, we must put proper measures in place to protect our citizens and keep our country safe. Sadly, our worst fear that ISIS could exploit a refugee situation to conduct attacks in the West was fully realized in Paris. We must take every step necessary to prevent that from happening here. That’s why a halt in the refugee program must happen immediately and last until we have a strict background check system in place.”
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) sent a letter to President Obama urging an immediate stop to the flow of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until there is an upgraded system in place to verify the background of the refugees and provide absolute certainty that no individual with sympathies to ISIS is allowed into the U.S. “As we continue to pray for the people of Paris, we’re provided a sobering reminder that our own homeland is not immune from this type of evil,” said Rep. Bost. “The United States has a long, proud history of being a nation of immigrants, and my heart hurts for the innocent Syrian and Iraqi civilians seeking refuge. However, our first and foremost priority must be protecting the American people. Until I am convinced that we have taken every single step necessary to keep our families safe, I will continue to oppose the admission of refugees into our cities.” Rep. Bost also co-sponsored the Support the Refugee Oversight and Security Act, which will require both House and Senate approval before any refugees are admitted to the United States. In addition, Rep. Bost voted for a bipartisan House Resolution condemning the terrorist attacks in Paris.
11.16.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), John Shimkus (IL-15), and Rodney Davis (IL-13) sent an additional letter to National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Robert Cardillo highlighting the operational and financial benefits of the O’Fallon site in St. Clair County for the new NGA West facilities. “We believe that the St. Clair County site adjacent to Scott Air Force Base (AFB) represents the best option to help the NGA achieve its stated mission to ‘deliver world-class geospatial intelligence that provides a decisive advantage to policymakers, warfighters, intelligence professionals and first responders. At a time when our national security is at increased risk, the NGA ensures we have the tools necessary to keep Americans safe, both at home and abroad.” The United States Army Corps of Engineers released a Draft Environmental Impact Statement assessing the qualities of three competing sites for the new NGA West campus that includes the St. Clair County site and two in Missouri. The attached letter from the Illinois Congressional Delegation precedes their submission of formal comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement, due on November 23rd. To view the letter to the NGA, click here. National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) provides timely, relevant and accurate geospatial intelligence in support of national security. To learn more about NGA and its mission, click here.
11.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (R-IL) and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan bill to address the growing problem of VA medical centers operating without permanent directors, an instability that puts the care of our nation’s veterans at risk. The Bost-Costa legislation would require the Secretary of the VA to submit a plan to Congress within 120 days for recruiting a permanent director at each facility currently under temporary leadership. “No business or organization can successfully operate under a revolving door of interim leaders – certainly not one tasked with caring for America’s heroes,” said Rep. Bost. “At a time when restoring accountability and leadership at the VA is a primary focus, we can’t afford to continue operating in this haphazard way. As a veteran myself, I’m pleased to do my part in providing the stability necessary to ensure our veterans receive the best care possible.” “VA medical centers, including the Fresno Medical Center, are operating without a permanent director, and that could be a disadvantage for hospital staff and the veterans they serve,” said Rep. Costa. “This bipartisan legislation aims to enhance health care services provided to veterans by improving management at VA medical centers across the country.” H.R. 3956, the VA Health Center Management Stability and Improvement Act, would: Within 120 days of enactment, require the Secretary of the VA to develop and submit to Congress a plan to hire highly-qualified medical directors for each medical center that lacks a permanent director; Identify possible impediments to staffing facilities with permanent directors; and Assess the possibility of promoting and training qualified candidates from within the VA for promotion to Senior Executive Service positions.
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) and Rodney Davis (IL-13), along with a representative with the office of Rep. John Shimkus (IL-15), met with Department of Commerce (DOC) Deputy Secretary Bruce Andrews and Assistant Secretary Paul Piquado of the Enforcement Office to discuss trade enforcement-related matters in the wake of U.S. Steel’s announcement that they may temporarily idle operations at their Granite City Works facility. “I commend the DOC for responding to our meeting request as we work together on behalf of our steelworkers and their families to get an update on pending cases before the ITC concerning anti-dumping and countervailing duties,” said Rep. Bost. “Rep. Davis and I were successful in securing enhanced trade remedies to protect against illegal trade practices. It’s important to know how these provisions will be implemented to help restore certainty and ensure that our efforts to put American workers on an even playing field in the global marketplace are successful.” These three anti-dumping and countervailing duty petitions filed by several companies in the domestic steel industry are now before the International Trade Commission (ITC). Earlier this year, the President signed into law a provision Bost and Davis introduced to protect American workers from the illegal dumping of foreign products in U.S. markets.
11.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) received the “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” award from the Healthcare Leadership Council for his on-going support of patient-centered medical progress. “I am honored to receive this award for our continued focus on improved patient care and finding cures to fatal and debilitating diseases,” said Rep. Bost. “The United States is the greatest medical innovator in the world, and it’s critical that we do all we can to accelerate ground-breaking research. We must make sure that new, life-saving treatments are accessible to Americans who need them.” The Healthcare Leadership Council is a coalition of chief executives from all disciplines within American Healthcare to jointly develop policies, plans, and programs to achieve their vision of a 21st century system that makes affordable, high-quality care accessible to all Americans.
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement concerning the election of Speaker Paul Ryan in the U.S. House of Representatives: “Speaker Ryan has a unique opportunity to bring Members of Congress together to do the people’s work at a critical time in our nation’s history. I am confident that Speaker Ryan will lead in a manner that is accountable to the citizens we represent and faithful to our constitutional principles. I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan to end the gridlock and achieve solutions for the American people.”
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (H.R. 1314), which protects our economy from a dangerous debt default, strengthens our national security, rolls back onerous Obamacare mandates, and rejects tax increases proposed by the Obama Administration. “While this agreement does not go as far as some of us may have wanted, it does include important reforms and averts a debt default that could have crippled Southern Illinois’ economy,” said Rep. Bost. “This legislation includes much-needed funding for our troops, protects seniors from a large spike in their Medicare premiums, and includes important long-term entitlement reforms without raising taxes. While this is a step in the right direction, it’s certainly not the end of the road. I am hopeful that this is a starting point for both parties to finally get serious about addressing the serious fiscal challenges we’re leaving to our children and grandchildren.” The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 provides the following: Prevents a dangerous default that would threaten our economy—increases the debt ceiling through March of 2017; Strengthens our national security and protects our troops—increases the spending cap by $58 billion for the Department of Defense over the next two years; Protects more Americans from Obamacare—repeals provisions of the President’s health care law by eliminating the law’s auto-enrollment mandate; and Secures significant long-term savings from structural entitlement reforms—reforms to the Medicare and the Disability Trust Fund will produce close to $200 billion in long-term savings while protecting seniors from an increase in their Part “B” premiums.
10.15.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13) and John Shimkus (IL-15) sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker urging a meeting to discuss trade enforcement-related matters. The delegation’s request comes in the wake of U.S. Steel’s recent announcement that they may temporarily idle operations at their Granite City Works facility. “We must work together on behalf of our steelworkers and their families to ensure this rollercoaster ride doesn’t continue,” said Rep. Bost. “Rep. Davis and I were successful in securing enhanced trade remedies to protect against illegal trade practices. I am eager to hear from the Department of Commerce how these provisions will be implemented and help restore certainty and ensure that our efforts to put American workers on an even playing field in the global marketplace are successful.” “Steelworkers in my district cannot wait for the federal government to implement trade provisions that were signed into law months ago," said Rep. Davis. “We need the U.S. Department of Commerce to act now. We need them to implement the changes my colleagues and I authored to hold countries that break our trade laws accountable and prevent further job loss within our steel industry.” “Trade legislation signed in the law earlier this year included important anti-dumping and countervailing duties provisions authored by Reps. Bost and Davis,” said Rep. Shimkus. “It’s imperative that we get an update on the implementation of these provisions before the House considers any new trade agreement with countries that may have engaged in unfair trade practices.” Currently, three anti-dumping and countervailing duty petitions filed by several companies in the domestic steel industry are before the International Trade Commission (ITC). Earlier this year, the President signed into law a provision Bost and Davis introduced to protect American workers from the illegal dumping of foreign products in U.S. markets.
10.13.2015	Friend: You're invited to our upcoming Southern Illinois Women's Fair that I'm hosting on Saturday, October 24th at the Main Complex Theatre on the campus of Southwestern Illinois College, 2500 Carlyle Avenue in Belleville. The event is free and open to the public and will feature Southern Illinois native and Olympic Gold Medalist Jackie Joyner-Kersee as the keynote speaker. Additional speakers include Col. Laura L. Lenderman, the Commander of the 375th Air Mobility Wing at Scott Air Force Base, and Dr. Georgia Costello, President of Southwestern Illinois College. The event will also feature interactive panel discussions on women in entrepreneurship, education and healthcare. Registration begins at 8:30 a.m. and the event is scheduled to conclude at 12:00 p.m. To REGISTER, click here. For more information, call (618) 233-8026. I hope to see you there! Mike
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) helped lead the fight to defeat an amendment that would have stripped the U.S. Maritime industry of $500 million in funding for the Maritime Security Program housed at Scott Air Force Base. Bost authored a letter to House colleagues yesterday urging the House to reject the amendment offered by Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI) to H.R. 702, an energy security bill. “Funding for the Maritime Security Program at Scott Air Force Base is essential in strengthening our military readiness,” said Bost. “This helps fund the 60-vessel fleet of ships that are a vital element of our national defense. This was a fight not just for my home district, but for the security of our nation. I am pleased we were successful in maintaining funding.” General Darren McDew, Commander of the U.S. Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) at Scott Air Force Base, says the 60-ship fleet is necessary to meet the global cargo requirement for our deployed military. The underlying energy security bill passed the House without Amash’s amendment attached. H.R. 702 will: Lift the misguided de facto ban on the export of domestically-produced crude oil; Help create thousands of new jobs in the oil and gas sector and manufacturers, such as U.S. Steel in Granite City; Generate $1.4 billion in profits over the next 10 years from oil and gas leases; Lower gas prices by 1.5 to 13 cents per gallon; Support up to 964,000 additional U.S. jobs in 2018; and Allow the U.S. to help our allies, enhance our energy security, and weaken OPEC and Russia’s monopoly power. Bost’s letter urging his colleagues to maintain funding for Scott AFB’s Maritime Security Program is attached.
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) and Grace Meng (D-NY) introduced the Small Agricultural Producer Size Standards Improvement Act, which would modernize small business size standards for agriculture producers. Currently, the size standard for agriculture producers is not subject to the same analysis and updates that other industries are and does not accurately reflect who is a small business. “The statutory size standard for agriculture producers doesn’t make sense and may reduce opportunities for small business farms and ranches to bid for federal contracts,” said Rep. Bost. “My bipartisan legislation applies the same common sense methods to agriculture producers that are used to determine who qualifies as a small business in other industries. In order to grow jobs and hire more workers, small businesses must have certainty and a clearer definition of the guidelines used to determine their size and status.” “It’s time for the SBA to modernize small business size standards for farmers and ranchers,” said Rep. Meng. “These hard working entrepreneurs deserve to be treated the same as all other small business owners, and I’m pleased to work with Rep. Bost to help make this happen. All small businesses should be afforded equal access to the many resources provided by the SBA. We must do all we can to help all small businesses succeed.” Rep Bost’s bill amends the Small Business Act, a law that provides small businesses certain preferences in the sale of goods and services to the federal government. Small business size standards define which firms are small businesses for this purpose. Congress removed the SBA’s ability to establish size standards for agriculture producers in 1985 and set the definition at $500,000 a year or less in gross receipts. The standard has been updated only once, in the year 2000 when it was set at $750,000. By permitting the Small Business Administration to use updated methodologies, the agency will be better able to reflect changes in the economy. “Representative Bost’s bill recognizes that farms and ranches should be treated equitably with other types of businesses when the SBA defines what constitutes a small business,” said Chuck Connor, President of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives. “The legislation will mean that farmers, ranchers and growers have greater access to the SBA’s programs and expertise and it will help promote economic activity and job growth across rural America.” ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost’s Stronger Voice for Small Business Act of 2015 (H.R. 1429) passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 270 to 156. The Bost provision saves small businesses from costly and time consuming litigation – allowing them to directly appeal to the Small Business Administration when an inappropriate size standard risks their ability to secure financial assistance and compete for contracts from federal agencies. “As a small business owner myself, I understand that small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy,” said Rep. Bost. “The SBA’s designation of a business as large or small has a major impact in determining whether they can apply for lending or financial assistance programs or whether they receive preference in the sale of goods and services to the federal government. In order to grow jobs and hire more workers, small businesses must have certainty and a clearer definition of the guidelines used to determine their size and status.” Rep. Bost’s bill was rolled into the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act negotiated by House and Senate leaders.
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced a grant in the amount of $3,587,052 to reconstruct a stretch of Front Street in East St. Louis. The grant was issued by the Economic Development Administration (EDA) under the Department of Commerce. “This is an example of how a public-private partnership can benefit the community by spurring economic development and revitalization,” said Rep. Bost. “This infrastructure project is critical for helping and promoting small businesses in this region.” The funding will help rebuild and enhance Front Street, Missouri Avenue and B Street, in addition to adjacent streets that will also be resurfaced and widened in East St. Louis. The public-private partnership is made possible by the Casino Queen, Bunge-SCF, and Cargill each contributing $500,000 toward the project which has a total cost of close to $8 million.
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced a grant award to the Industrial Park Rail Track in Granite City. The grant from the Department of Commerce will provide infrastructure improvements at America’s Central Port District in Madison County. “This grant not only improves infrastructure at the Granite City facility, it will also create more than 230 good-paying jobs and promote economic development in Madison and St. Clair counties,” said Rep. Bost. “This is a win for the Metro East economy and an important link between local manufacturers and America’s rail system.” The Economic Development Administration grant totals $6.5 million and will provide construction and rehabilitation of 7,300 feet of rail track at America’s Central Port District’s intermodal industrial park.
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after House Speaker John Boehner announced he would resign from Congress at the end of October: “I appreciate Speaker Boehner’s service and wish him and his family the very best in the next chapter of their lives. As the House prepares to elect a new Speaker, it’s as important as ever that we work toward a shared commitment in tackling the serious challenges facing hardworking families – challenges that are only being made worse by this Administration’s misguided policies.”
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (H.R. 3134), which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a 241 to 187 margin. The legislation places a temporary moratorium on federal funding for Planned Parenthood Federation of America while Congress conducts investigations into the organization’s practices. “Americans should not be forced to pay for practices that violate their core moral beliefs. The undercover videos featuring senior level Planned Parenthood officials discussing the harvesting and trafficking of fetal body parts is abhorrent to me and many other Southern Illinoisans,” said Rep. Bost. “That’s why I voted to end all federal funding to Planned Parenthood while Congress gets to the bottom of this disturbing situation. I believe we can stop federal funding of this organization without sacrificing women’s access to quality medical services. Southern Illinois is home to dozens of community health clinics that provide top level care to women in need.” H.R. 3134 directs funding for women’s preventative health services to federally-qualified health centers. In Illinois, there are 670 federally-qualified health centers and rural health clinics compared to just 18 Planned Parenthood facilities.
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement on Constitution Day, the day we celebrate the signing of the U.S. Constitution on September 17, 1787: “On this day, we celebrate the U.S. Constitution, the fundamental framework of freedom. I’m reminded as a grandparent of the responsibility to instill in my 10 grandchildren the importance of one of the greatest documents ever written and the direct impact it has on their lives 228 years later. I would encourage you to do the same with your family as we celebrate this consequential day in American history.”
09.16.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) was presented with the “Steel Champion” award by the American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) at his office in Washington, D.C. The award was presented to Reps. Bost and Rodney Davis (IL-13) by U.S. Steel President Mario Longhi in recognition of their successful effort to strengthen and improve our nation’s trade remedy laws. “I am honored to receive this award and I accept it on behalf of the hardworking men and women in Southern Illinois’ steel industry,” said Rep. Bost. “I’m proud that our legislation stands up for American workers whose jobs are put at risk by global competitors who refuse to play by the rules. These improvements in our trade laws will go a long way in promoting fairer competition for the U.S. steel industry and its workers.” “This is a challenging time for the steel industry,” said AISI President and CEO Thomas J. Gibson. “The surge of foreign imports that continue to come into this nation unfairly, and at record levels, puts our economic health at risk. Congressmen Bost and Davis have been leaders in the fight to pass trade laws that will help us work toward leveling the playing field on trade. We are grateful for their leadership on this, and so many other issues that impact the American steel industry and the 10,000 steel industry workers in Illinois.” Bost’s legislation to improve antidumping and countervailing duty laws was rolled into trade legislation passed by the House and signed into law by the President on June 29th.
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to reject the “Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action” (JPOA) negotiated between the Obama Administration and Iran (H.R. 3461). “On the 14th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks on America, I joined my House colleagues in standing up against the President’s bad deal with Iran,” said Rep. Bost. “This agreement will not bring greater peace to the world. To the contrary, it paves the way for Iran to advance its nuclear capabilities at a time when the world is growing more unstable by the day. “The more the American people have learned about this deal, the more they have opposed it. By legitimizing Iran’s nuclear program, allowing for self-inspections, and lifting arms and missile embargoes, this agreement fails to ramp up accountability on a regime that proclaims ‘death to America’ and promises to ‘wipe Israel off the map.’ We must do better for the sake and safety of our children and grandchildren.” Rep. Bost also voted to suspend the President’s authority to lift sanctions against Iran (H.R. 3460) and to acknowledge that the President failed to comply with the “Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act,” which requires the Administration to share the full agreement with Congress resolution (H. Res. 411). The legislative package passed the House on Friday.
09.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced his office would be distributing a limited number of tickets to residents of the 12th District wanting to see a remote broadcast of Pope Francis’ address to a Joint Session of Congress from the West Front lawn of the U.S. Capitol. The Pope’s address to Congress is Thursday, September 24th at 10:00 a.m. (ET). “This is an exciting chance for our constituents to travel to the nation’s capital to witness the Pope’s historic address to Congress,” said Rep. Bost. “This is the first time a sitting Pope has ever addressed a Joint Session of Congress so we’re happy to be able to provide this once-in-a-lifetime experience to as many Southern Illinoisans as possible.” Here’s how constituents can enter their name into a lottery to obtain free tickets: All names MUST be submitted by this Tuesday, September 8th, 2015; You can only enter your name once and each winner can receive at most four tickets; A lottery will be conducted and winners notified on Wednesday, September 9th, 2015; Constituents receiving the tickets must provide their own transportation to Washington, D.C.; To enter your name into the lottery for the limited number of tickets available, call our Washington D.C. office at (202) 225-5661.
09.02.2015	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) was joined by Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH) of the Small Business Committee to talk with Southern Illinois business owners, manufacturers and employees about job growth in the 12th District. “I was honored that Chairman Chabot accepted my invitation to join me in Southern Illinois so he could have a better understanding of the opportunities and challenges facing our small businesses and their hard working employees,” said Rep. Bost. “I am working hard to connect the people with their government, and there’s no better way to do so than inviting decision makers to come here and listen to local residents directly.” Rep. Bost and Chairman Chabot conducted a manufacturer’s roundtable with business owners and members of the Greater Belleville Chamber of Commerce at their headquarters in Belleville early Tuesday. Shortly after, they toured Roland Machinery in Carterville.
08.31.2015	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced the Williamson County Regional Airport will receive a $4,066,596 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for the construction of a new airport terminal in Marion. “This is a significant investment in an important hub of transportation for many thousands of residents in and around Williamson County,” said Rep. Bost. “This airport is seeing an increase in traffic and the construction of this new terminal is another sign this expanding airport continues to add to the economic growth of Southern Illinois.” Williamson County Regional Airport is the region's sole primary commercial service airport providing daily flights to St. Louis, generating over $21 million in annual economic impact.
08.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the Obama Administration issued an onerous rule for coal-fired power plants, demanding that generators cut their carbon dioxide output 32 percent: “The only purpose of this legislation is to continue the Obama Administration’s war on coal and affordable energy. If this proposed plan is put into place, the economic impacts could be crippling to industrial areas in the Metro East region and coal communities across Southern Illinois. “To make matters worse, while nations like China and India exploit affordable energy sources, President Obama’s agenda has America going it alone. In the process, we are putting our economy at a disadvantage, costing hundreds of thousands of jobs each year, and increasing electric bills on hardworking families across the country.”
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) announced he will be spending next week visiting healthcare facilities across Southern Illinois. The tour will take him to several communities in the 12th Congressional District where he will visit healthcare centers and organizations focused on quality healthcare, and talk with healthcare professionals. “Everywhere I go, people tell me they’re worried about the future of their healthcare,” said Rep. Bost. “Throughout Southern Illinois, we have numerous hospitals, clinics, and organizations that are administering quality healthcare on a daily basis to thousands of patients. By visiting some of these facilities and talking firsthand with doctors, healthcare administrators and patients themselves, I will best able to fight for their needs in Congress. I look forward to continuing the conversation with those who are on the front line of healthcare.” Health Care Tour Times and Locations are Listed Below: Monday, August 3rd Cairo Medical Center-Omega Unit 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. 13245 Kessler Road Cairo, IL 62924 Cairo Diagnostic Center 1:30 p.m.-2:00 p.m. 13289 Kessler Road Cairo, IL 62924 Tuesday, August 4th Good Samaritan Hospital 2:00 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 605 North 12th Street Mount Vernon, IL 62864 Wednesday, August 5th St. Anthony’s Health Center 2:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. 1 St. Anthony’s Way Alton, IL 62002 Thursday, August 6th Meeting with Illinois Healthcare Leadership Council Belleville Congressional Office Belleville, IL 62220
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C.— This week, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) was honored with the National Retail Federation’s “Heroes of Main Street” award for his pro-jobs voting record in support of small businesses and retailers on a host of issues, including trade, health care, and tax reform. “I am honored to be recognized by the National Retail Federation with the ‘Heroes of Main Street’ award for my work in helping small businesses in Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “As a small business owner myself, I know these folks are the life-blood of our economy. That’s why I will continue my work to fight the job-killing tax hikes and Washington overregulation that halts business expansion and entrepreneurship. That’s the only way we’re going to put many of our residents looking for jobs back to work.” “NRF’s Heroes of Main Street have shown through their voting records that they care about retailers, big and small, and value the role these businesses play in communities around the country,” said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay. “By backing our policy priorities, they show their commitment to a prosperous Main Street and to the long-term growth of retail—our nation’s largest private-sector employer.” The “Heroes of Main Street” award is based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association.
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to give the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) increased flexibility to fire employees whose performance misconduct led to substandard care for our Veterans. The VA Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 1994) also strengthens accountability and performance measures for VA senior executives and strengthens protections for whistleblowers who report wrongdoing. “Mismanagement and misconduct wouldn’t be accepted at any business or corporation, and it certainly shouldn’t be allowed at the VA,” said Rep. Bost. “Our Veterans deserve nothing but the best health care services and support after valiantly serving their country and protecting our freedoms. That begins with each VA employee being held accountable for his or her job performance. No hero should suffer because government bureaucrats failed to fulfill their responsibilities.” The VA Accountability Act of 2015 would: Expand the removal authority to the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs for all VA employees; Allow employees to have seven days after the VA’s final decision to appeal their removal or demotion; Protect whistleblowers from retaliation by not allowing the Secretary to use this authority to fire employees who have filed a complaint with the Office of Special Council; Limit paid administrative leave for all new VA employees to only 14 days in a one-year time span; Extend the probationary period for all new VA employees from 12 to 18 months; and Develop more enhanced performance measures for all VA employees.
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) announced he will be conducting two more Congressional Listening Tours in Mounds and Anna next week. This will bring the total number of listening tours to 10 in the 12th District since he took office in January. Rep. Bost will have conducted one session in each of the twelve counties by the end of this year. “After conducting my eighth listening session, I know the value of how these can provide constituents an opportunity to share their thoughts and ask questions in a casual environment,” said Rep. Bost. “Meeting with my constituents on a regular basis is the most effective way for me to get a real sense of what issues are important to them. I’m doing all I can to be the accessible and accountable representative Southern Illinoisans expect and deserve.” Congressional Listening Tour Dates and Locations: Monday, August 3rd 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Smiles Senior Center 312 South Blance Mounds, IL 62965 Monday, August 3rd 3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Anna City Hall 103 Market Street Anna, IL 62906 Both events are also open to area media representatives.
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) honored long-time Belleville-area mailman Don Fix for taking action to help an injured Swansea couple who had fallen and needed help. “When some of us wouldn’t notice the unusual, 20-year postal carrier Don Fix did,” said Rep. Bost. “Don noticed that mail was piling up at the home of a couple he knew well. After checking the couple, he heard a voice from the inside the house call for help. Don sprang into action and called the paramedics, who then got the couple to the hospital. Don is more than just your neighborhood mailman—he also delivers care and compassion to his community. For that, Don is an everyday hero, and I was proud to recognize him on the House floor today.”
07.28.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the REINS Act (H.R. 427), which requires an up-or-down vote by both the House and Senate and the signature of the President before any new federal agency rule or regulation with an economic impact of $100 million or more can be imposed on the American public. The bill passed the House by a 243-165 margin. “This Administration has added an average of 81 new major regulations per year, many of which are redundant, costly and counterproductive,” said Rep. Bost. “To make matters worse, the officials who hand down these burdensome regulations on job creators are unelected bureaucrats with no accountability to Congress. This must stop – or this job-killing, regulatory process will continue to create uncertainty in the marketplace and stifle economic growth.” The REINS Act Gives Congress an up-or-down vote on any new major regulation from the Executive Branch which includes: Rules that cost the economy $100 million or more; Rules that will increase costs for consumers, or; Rules that will have a significant adverse impact on the economy and U.S. competitiveness.
07.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13), and John Shimkus (IL-15) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed General Paul Selva as the vice chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and General Darren McDew as the commander of the U.S. Transportation Command at Scott Air Force Base: “As representatives of Southwestern and Southern Illinois, we want to congratulate Gen. Paul Selva and Gen. Darren McDew on being confirmed by the Senate. Both have exhibited exemplary leadership while at Scott Air Force Base and we look forward to working with them as they assume these new leadership positions.”
07.22.2015	Washington, D.C.— Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) joined a number of his House colleagues in calling for Congressional investigations into Planned Parenthood’s alleged human fetal tissue trafficking activities. Recently, an undercover investigation revealed new videotaped evidence of senior Planned Parenthood executives discussing compensation and profit from the sale of fetal tissues. “These graphic videos showing Planned Parenthood executives callously discussing ending the lives of unborn children and then selling their organs are sickening to watch and beyond comprehension,” said Rep. Bost. “This organization is anything but one that helps individuals plan for their ‘parenting.’ Besides the fact it conducts more than 300,000 abortions a year and is the largest abortion provider in the country, Planned Parenthood may now be a brokerage house for children’s organs. This is beyond inhumane. Congress needs to take a serious look at their practices and funding immediately.”
07.16.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded the St. Louis region for receiving the Abilene Trophy for its support and commitment to Scott Air Force Base. The Abilene Trophy is presented to the one of 13 eligible communities in the United States that is most supportive of its local Air Force Base. “The St. Louis region is unmatched in its support for Scott Air Force Base, its operations, and the dedicated airmen and their families who call Scott AFB home,” said Rep. Bost. “The bond between the base and the surrounding community is unbreakable, and reflective of the true spirit of America. I congratulate the St. Louis Region for winning this coveted award for the second time in just three years.” The Abilene Trophy was presented to leaders of the St. Louis Region by the Air Mobility Command during a ceremony at the MidAmerica St. Louis Airport in Mascoutah, Illinois on Wednesday. Shortly after being sworn into office, Rep. Bost sent a letter to Military Affairs Committee (MAC) Chair Grey Bridwell in support of the St. Louis Region receiving the Abilene Trophy.
06.26.2015	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling on same-sex marriage: “While I believe all human beings deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, I am disappointed that today’s ruling casts aside the will of millions of Americans who have voted to reaffirm marriage as a union between one man and one woman. As a man of faith, I believe this definition of marriage was established long before there were courts appointed to interpret it. If that definition were to change in the eyes of the law, it should be our citizens making the decision at the state level, not nine unelected justices in Washington, D.C.”
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, the U.S. House approved bipartisan legislation authored by Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) aimed at protecting the American steel industry and other businesses from the illegal dumping of foreign products in U.S. markets. Included as part of a Trade Adjustment Assistance package for American workers displaced from their jobs, the Bost-Davis provision will now go to the President for his signature. “I believe in the benefits of trade, but it must be fair trade,” said Rep. Bost. “Our legislation strengthens America’s trade remedy laws, and that’s a win for the steel industry in Southern Illinois and for other industries that suffer the consequences of illegal foreign trade practices. Without the reforms included in our legislation, American businesses would continue to suffer significant – and often, permanent – harm before they can seek relief. I’m proud the House joined Rep. Davis and me in restoring common sense to these laws.” “I am pleased by the amount of support shown today for our provisions to strengthen trade enforcement rules,” said Rep. Davis. “By holding foreign competitors who break our trade laws accountable, we can protect American workers, support American-made products, and grow American jobs.” Nucor Steel, the Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports, U.S. Steel, the Steel Manufactures Association, the American Iron and Steel Institute, and the Alliance for American Manufacturing have all publically backed the Bost/Davis legislation.
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court released its ruling on the King vs. Burwell decision on Obamacare subsidies: “I disagreed with the Court’s original decision upholding the individual mandate in Obamacare, and I disagree with them now. However, I am committed to working with my colleagues to find a plan that replaces Obamacare with solutions that expand access to care, makes it more affordable for hardworking families, and gets government bureaucrats out from between patients and their doctors.”
06.24.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Ratepayer Protection Act (H.R. 2042), which delays the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s deadline for mandatory carbon dioxide (CO2) “goals” for each state’s electricity system, pending a judicial review of the proposed regulation. “This new regulation is a continuation of this Administration’s ‘war on coal,’ aimed at destroying America’s coal industry – including right here in Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Congress needs to stand up and prevent the EPA from this massive overreach which will kill U.S. jobs and impose hundreds of billions of dollars in new costs on residential and commercial consumers.” “EPA administrator Gina McCarthy has already concluded that adoption of the rule will have a ‘negligible’ impact on CO2 levels for the next decade,” added Bost. “Imposing standards on coal plants that even the EPA admits can’t be achieved is unfair and will hurt our economy. It will needlessly lead to thousands of lost jobs because manufacturers in Illinois won’t be able to remain competitive due to higher energy costs. I believe in a balance between environmental protection and affordable energy. The EPA’s so-called ‘Clean Power Plan’ achieves neither.”
06.23.2015	Washington, D.C. —Tonight, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to repeal one of the more onerous provisions of Obamacare—the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). Rep. Bost is a cosponsor of the Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act (H.R. 1190), which would eliminate the board that many health care professionals fear will recommend deep reductions in Medicare payments. “The last thing our Southern Illinois seniors need is a board of unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats wielding sweeping powers to slash Medicare payments,” said Rep. Mike Bost. “This board should not be given this type of power to dramatically alter medical care to our seniors with no administrative or judicial review or accountability.” The Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act (H.R. 1190) Includes the Following: Repeals the sections of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) that establish the IPAB; H.R. 1190 has 235 bipartisan cosponsors including Rep. Bost; The legislation is supported by more than 500 organizations representing providers, patients, and the business community.
06.15.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12), along with Reps. Rodney Davis (IL-13) John Shimkus (IL-15) and Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-3) sent a letter to Secretary Robert McDonald of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) concerning the high turnover rate in the position of Acting Director. “I am very concerned about the lack of stability in leadership at the St. Louis VA and its impact on Veterans’ services,” said Rep. Mike Bost. “Many Veterans in my district access health care services through the St. Louis VA system, which provides care to over 45,000 Veterans annually. I think it is critical that Secretary McDonald do all he can to install a qualified, permanent director for the St. Louis VA as soon as possible. This revolving door makes it harder to achieve the long-term improvements in care our Veterans deserve.” "We have a responsibility to provide our veterans with the best care possible and good leaders within our VA facilities are key to this success," said Rep. Rodney Davis. "We're urging Secretary McDonald to find a qualified, permanent director to lead the St. Louis VA system as soon as possible so they can continue to plan for the future and improve care for our veterans." “Replacing one interim director with another interim director every four months is no way to run any large organization,” said Rep. John Shimkus. “I urge Secretary McDonald to make finding a permanent director for the VA St. Louis Health Care System a priority before the instability created by this lack of leadership takes a toll on patient care.” “After a recent report from the VA that discussed several issues in the St. Louis facility, it is even more important to appoint a permanent director so our nation’s veterans receive the quality care they deserve and the issues are rectified,” said Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer. I’m pleased to join my Illinois colleagues in sending this letter and we will continue to urge for a stable Acting Director so there aren’t any unnecessary disturbances in caring for veterans.” Background: Over the past two years, the St. Louis VA has been managed by seven different acting directors. The short-term uncertainty has impacted the ability of the system management to engage in long-term planning and other functions necessary to improve service delivery to Veterans. ###
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House approved legislation that included Rep. Mike Bost’s (IL-12) legislation to protect the American steel industry and other businesses from the illegal dumping of foreign products in U.S. markets. The House also passed Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), which will strengthen America’s hand in negotiating international trade deals, boost American exports, and benefit workers right here in Southern Illinois. “I know American businesses and their workers can outperform anyone in the world, and that opening new markets for American exports is critical to their success,” said Rep. Bost. “However, we also need to ensure safeguards are in place when other nations fail to play be the same rules we do. “The package of bipartisan bills we passed today includes legislation I introduced to strengthen our trade remedy laws, and that’s a win for the steel industry in Southern Illinois and other industries that suffer the consequences of illegal foreign trade practices. Under our current trade remedy laws, American businesses must suffer significant – and often, permanent – harm before they can seek relief. That’s like waiting for your house to burn down before you’re allowed to contact the fire department. I’m proud the House joined me in restoring common sense to these laws. “Trade is important to farmers and manufacturers, and this legislation will expand our markets, grow our economy and help put people to work. That’s a good thing for Illinois, where 1.7 million workers rely on trade for their employment.” Facts on Trade in the State of Illinois: Illinois’ trade-related employment grew 7.5 times faster than total state employment from 2004 to 2013; Illinois exported $66.5 billion in goods and $28.3 billion in services in 2013; In 2013, 53 percent ($35.5 billion) of Illinois’ goods exports went to U.S. free trade agreement partners; Small and medium-sized companies make up 90 percent of Illinois exporters; and Illinois is America’s third largest exporter of agricultural products.
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. — On Thursday, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) introduced an amendment in the House Veterans Affairs Committee to advance the bipartisan Ruth Moore Act of 2015 to the House floor. In addition to advancing the bill, which makes it easier for victims of military sexual trauma to receive disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Bost’s amendment cuts bonuses in half for the VA officials who oversaw the breakdown in veterans’ health care services at facilities across the country in recent years. “No person who served in America’s Armed Forces should ever be a victim of sexual assault,” said Rep. Bost. “For many victims, the emotional impact of a sexual assault can continue for a lifetime, a situation only worsened when the victim is denied the justice and support they need. My amendment was about refocusing our priorities, ensuring victims of military sexual assault get the help they need while cutting bonuses to government bureaucrats who have proven they don’t deserve them.” The Ruth Moore Act of 2015 was originally introduced by Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME). The bill would require the VA to submit regular updates to Congress about the current status of claims for mental health conditions relating to military sexual assault.
06.09.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) applauded Union Pacific Railroad’s investment of more than $20 million in the rail line between Chester and the Illinois/Missouri border. The privately-funded project will be completed by mid-October. “Union Pacific’s investment of millions of dollars in this important railway project shows the commitment the company has to meeting the transportation needs of Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Not only will this project spur economic growth in the region, it will help enhance safety, reduce motorist wait times at crossings and improve railway operating efficiency. Just as importantly, it accomplishes these goals without using any taxpayer money.” “Union Pacific helps businesses connect with consumers, suppliers and markets across the nation and around the world,” said Donna Kush, Union Pacific Vice President of Public Affairs. “In addition to helping move our customers’ goods safely and efficiently, our investments support communities by reducing traffic congestion, facilitating industrial development and promoting economic expansion.” Union Pacific’s Investment in Southern Illinois Transportation Includes: Replacing 71,800 railroad ties; Replacing nearly 15 miles of rail; Installing 30,000 tons of rock ballast; and Repairing the surfaces at 43 road crossings.
06.02.2015	Washington, D.C. —Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) announced his staff will hold office hours at two new locations in the 12th Congressional District to best serve Metro East constituents. Bost’s constituent services specialist, Kim Clark, is a native of Madison County and spent 19 years working for Reps. Jerry Costello and Bill Enyart before joining Bost’s staff. “From Day One, I said I would do all I could to be the accessible Representative the 12th Congressional District deserves,” said Rep. Bost. “In addition to our offices in Carbondale, Belleville and Mt. Vernon, I’m happy to announce we will be expanding our constituent services operations in Alton and Granite City as well.” Additional Office Locations in 12th Congressional District: Alton City Hall 101 East Third Street Alton, IL 62002 First Thursday of every month 8:00 a.m. until Noon. Granite City Hall 2060 Delmar Avenue Granite City, IL 62040 Third Thursday of every month 1:00 p.m. until 4:30 p.m.
06.02.2015	Washington, D.C. — More organizations in the steel industry are putting their support behind Rep. Mike Bost’s (IL-12) bipartisan American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act, which streamlines the process for addressing unfair dumping of foreign products into U.S. markets. Nucor Steel, the Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports, U.S. Steel, the Steel Manufactures Association, the American Iron and Steel Institute, and the Alliance for American Manufacturing have all issued statements in support of Bost’s bill, H.R. 2523: “Our trade laws are the best defense we have against these unfair practices,” said John Ferriola, Chairman, CEO and President of Nucor Steel. “The American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act would strengthen our trade laws significantly while allowing the Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission (ITC) to use their resources more significantly.” “Our 47 member companies and 35,000 employees nationwide express our support for the American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act,” said Tamara L. Browne, Director of Government Affairs for the Committee on Pipe and Tube Imports. “This legislation includes provisions that will ensure that our trade remedy laws remain strong and effective for our industry and others who rely on these as tools to challenge unfair trade.” “Foreign producer market share has risen dramatically within the past 5 years as a result of a constant, unrelenting assault of unfairly traded goods entering our market,” said Mario Longi, President and CEO of the United States Steel Corporation. “If this cycle is not broken, foreign producers will seize control of the American steel market within a decade. “Rep. Mike Bost is our powerful voice in Congress and United States Steel Corporation and all of our employees in Illinois and throughout the country are grateful for all your efforts in moving the Trade Remedies provisions forward.” “It is absolutely critical that our nation’s trade laws are able to confront the realities of global trade,” said Phillip K. Bell, President of the Steel Manufacturers Association. “Without effective, efficient remedies, the U.S. steel industry will continue to lose jobs as it is subjected to the unfair trade practices of some nations. SMA wishes to thank Rep. Bost for his efforts to modernize U.S. trade enforcement provisions.” “Congressman Bost understands that the U.S. trade remedy laws are the only means by which domestic industry can mitigate the harm from record levels of unfair steel imports,” said Thomas J. Gibson, President and CEO of American Iron and Steel Institute. “This legislation stands up for American workers whose jobs are put at risk by global competitors who skirt trade laws. The legislation parallels legislation that has passed the Senate by a strong bipartisan majority and is supported by the Administration. The improvements in our trade laws proposed by Rep. Bost would go a long way in promoting more fair competition for the U.S. steel industry and its workers, and we are grateful for his leadership.” “This important bipartisan legislation would ensure that the Department of Commerce uses appropriate information to make a well-informed decision on the extent of cheating,” said Scott N. Paul, President of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. “And, it modernizes the ‘injury’ standard used by the ITC that timely determinations can be made before irreparable harm in the form of plant closures and layoffs occurs.” Reps. Mike Bost and Rodney Davis introduced the American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act on May 21, 2015. The bill currently has 33 bipartisan cosponsors.
05.28.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13) and John Shimkus (IL-15) released the following statements concerning U.S. Steel’s decision to continue operating one blast furnace at its Granite City Works location, keeping the vast majority of local steelworkers on the job. The other furnace will remain offline temporarily due to the installation of a new caster. “I couldn’t be happier that the vast majority of steelworkers at Granite City Works will remain on the job and able to provide for their family,” said Rep. Bost. “These hardworking Southern Illinoisans now have more certainty about their future, but that doesn’t mean the fight for our plant is over. You shouldn’t have to wait until your house burns down before being able to call on the fire department. That’s why we’ve introduced legislation that will help ensure companies have more effective and timely tools to combat illegal foreign trade practices. No American should lose their job because other countries violate the rules.” "It is great news that 2,000 workers at the steel plant in Granite City will be able to keep their jobs and we must do everything we can to ensure these jobs, and other opportunities, are around for the long-term," said Rep. Davis. "We can start by putting a stop to foreign competitors like China who break our trade laws and put good-paying American jobs at risk. I will continue to push for stronger trade enforcement policies that make it easier to punish violators and prevent this unfair advantage." “Today’s announcement is encouraging news and I applaud U.S. Steel for reversing their decision to fully close the Granite City Works,” said Rep. Shimkus. “I also want to thank Congressmen Bost and Davis for their leadership in mobilizing the House Steel Caucus to back bipartisan legislation that would speed up the process for challenging illegal trade practices that threaten American jobs.” Background U.S. Steel had announced earlier this year its intent to temporarily idle all operations at Granite City Works, laying off 2,080 local steelworkers in the process. While the reduction in domestic oil and gas drilling was cited by the company as one of the primary causes of the previously announced decision, it is clear that illegal trade practices by China and other countries pose long-term threats to the steel industry and the U.S. workforce. Reps. Bost and Davis recently introduced H.R. 2523, the Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act that will improve the ability of domestic manufacturers to fight foreign illegal trade practices. The bill currently has 27 bipartisan cosponsors and has been endorsed by U.S. Steel and other representatives of the steel industry.
05.27.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement concerning the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s release of the final Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “Make no mistake about it: the impact of the EPA’s Waters of the U.S. ruling will be felt far and wide. Here in Southern Illinois, our proud agricultural heritage will now be put at risk by federal bureaucrats intent on telling our farmers and family businesses how to use their land. This unprecedented power grab over America’s waters upends the balanced, federal-state partnership that has regulated U.S. waters for over 40 years under the Clean Water Act. I have voted to scrap this rule in the past, and I will continue to fight this shameful overreach in the future.” Background Earlier this month, Rep. Bost voted for the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, which would scrap the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s Waters of the United States rule and require that a replacement be drafted. The House-passed bill would stop the EPA rule from expanding its federal regulatory power to cover most of our nation’s waters - including ditches, pipes, watersheds, and farmland ponds.
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) introduced the bipartisan American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act, which streamlines the process for addressing unfair dumping of foreign products into U.S. markets. Bost worked closely with Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13) in crafting the legislation. “When it was announced that Granite City Works would be temporarily idling nearly 2,100 local steel jobs, I immediately went to work to find a solution that stops this from happening again,” said Rep. Bost. “Illegal trade practices are putting American jobs at risk, and I am pleased we’ve received support from both sides of the aisle to combat these practices. When the rules are applied equally, I am confident that American workers will outwork and outperform foreign competitors every day of the week.” “For years, workers in industries like steel and others in my district have been adversely affected by foreign competitors in countries like China who continue to break the rules,” said Rep. Rodney Davis. “The American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act will ensure foreign competitors who engage in illegal trade practices are held accountable to further prevent this unfair advantage. Because if given a level playing field, I know Illinois workers and products will win every time.” “Foreign producer market share has risen dramatically within the past 5 years as a result of a constant, unrelenting assault of unfairly traded goods entering our market,” said Mario Longhi, President and CEO of the United States Steel Corporation. “If this cycle is not broken, foreign producers will seize control of the American steel market within a decade. Congressman Bost is a powerful voice in Congress and United States Steel Corporation and all of our employees in Illinois and throughout the country are grateful for all his efforts in moving the Trade Remedies provisions forward.” “Congressman Bost understands that the U.S. trade remedy laws are the only means by which domestic industry can mitigate the harm from record levels of unfair steel imports,” said Thomas J. Gibson, President and CEO of American Iron and Steel Institute. “This legislation stands up for American workers whose jobs are put at risk by global competitors who skirt trade laws. The legislation parallels legislation that has passed the Senate by a strong bipartisan majority and is supported by the Administration. The improvements in our trade laws proposed by Rep. Bost would go a long way in promoting more fair competition for the U.S. steel industry and its workers, and we are grateful for his leadership.” “It is absolutely critical that our nation’s trade laws are able to confront the realities of global trade,” said Phillip K. Bell, President of the Steel Manufacturers Association. Without effective, efficient remedies, the U.S. steel industry will continue to lose jobs as it is subjected to the unfair trade practices of some nations. SMA wishes to thank Congressman Bost for his efforts to modernize U.S. trade enforcement provisions.”
05.19.2015	Rep. Bost Votes to Freeze Pay for Members of Congress Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted today to freeze his own salary and the salaries of other members of Congress for the next fiscal year. The pay freeze passed the House as part of the FY2016 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. “Members of Congress should be no different than any hardworking family in Southern Illinois when it comes to being accountable with our money,” said Rep. Bost. “While many of these families are still trying to make ends meet, the last thing we need is a pay raise for Members of Congress.” “Southern Illinoisans sent me to Washington to cut wasteful spending and to hold our government more accountable,” added Bost. “We need to show the American people that we’re serious about stopping out-of-control spending by leading with our actions and not just more political rhetoric.” The FY2016 Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill also cuts spending by: Freezing funding for the Legislative Branch for the third year in a row at a savings of $3.3 billion; Continuing a 14 percent reduction in House of Representatives office budgets, and Trimming funding for other governmental programs at a savings of $9.8 million.
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C. — After testifying before the House Armed Services Committee in support of the U.S. Navy’s request of funding for the production of twelve F/A-18 aircraft, also known as the Super Hornet, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with the full funding included. When signed into law, the provision will preserve thousands of jobs in the St. Louis region. “This funding was essential for hundreds of Boeing employees who live and work in the 12th Congressional District,” said Rep. Bost. “Boeing’s continued production of the Navy’s F-18 aircraft in the St. Louis region is critical in strengthening the local defense industrial base.” “The current state of turmoil in the Middle East makes it more important than ever that we ensure our military has the tools it needs to fulfill its mission in the fight against terrorism,” added Rep. Bost. “The Navy’s F-18 aircraft conduct critical strike fighter missions against ISIL and other Al-Qaeda affiliated terrorist organizations and are a national security asset we must protect.” Boeing’s Impact to the 12th Congressional District of Illinois: 850 Boeing employees work and live in the District; Suppliers and vendors spend $6.5 million annually in the District; and Boeing provides more than 60,000 U.S. jobs with 800 supplier partners throughout the United States.
05.15.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today the House approved bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman Mike Bost to empower America’s job creators. Bost’s Stronger Voice for Small Business Act permits job creators to directly appeal to the Small Business Administration (SBA) when challenging an inappropriate SBA size standard, a change that saves small businesses from a costly and time consuming litigation process. “As a small business owner myself, I understand that small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy,” said Rep. Bost. “The SBA’s designation of a business as large or small has a major impact in determining whether they can apply for lending or financial assistance programs or whether they receive preference in the sale of goods and services to the Federal Government. In order to grow jobs and hire more workers, small businesses must have certainty and a clearer definition of the guidelines used to determine their size and status.” “The National Small Business Association (NSBA) strongly supports efforts to level the playing field for small firms that still face significant competitive disadvantages when it comes to the federal marketplace,” said Todd McCracken, President and CEO of the NSBA. “Legislation to enhance fairness, improve transparency and ensure small businesses voices are heard, such as the Stronger Voice for Small Business Act of 2015, are a welcome step in the right direction.” The legislation also has the support of the National Defense Industrial Association, the American Council of Engineering Companies and The American Institute of Architects. The bipartisan Stronger Voice for Small Business Act, introduced with Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), was attached as an amendment to the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. — Tonight, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, which would scrap the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s Waters of the United States rule and require that a replacement be drafted. The House-passed bill would stop the EPA rule from expanding its federal regulatory power to cover most of our nation’s waters - including ditches, pipes, watersheds, and farmland ponds. “If the Washington bureaucrats get their way, Southern Illinois’ proud agricultural heritage could be put at risk,” said Rep. Bost. “The EPA’s unprecedented power grab over America’s waters would upend the balanced, federal-state partnership that has regulated U.S. waters for over 40 years under the Clean Water Act. By getting Washington out of the way and building upon past successes in making our waterways healthier, we can provide our farmers the certainty they need to grow. That’s why I am pleased my House colleagues joined me in telling the EPA ‘enough is enough.’” When developing the new proposed rule, the agencies must take into consideration: All of the comments received on the rule; The economic analysis of the rule; and The connectivity study which was used as a basis for the rule.
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. — Tonight, Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to provide a $4.6 billion increase for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) above its current funding. This legislation totals $68.7 billion, which is 5.6 percent more than last year’s level of funding. “As a veteran and member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I’m happy this legislation will provide our America’s heroes with improved medical care at VA facilities by investing in technology that improves the efficiency and effectiveness of veterans’ health services,” said Rep. Bost. “By investing in new technology and improving accountability at the ground level, we’re empowering the VA with the resources necessary to care for every qualified veteran in need of care.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act Provides: A $4.6 billion increase for medical care, a 5.6 percent increase from last year; $562 million for major construction, the same as last year’s allocation; An increase of $4.0 billion for information technology investments to continue to improve veterans’ health care; and Resources on putting Veteran’s care first and provides the much-needed oversight, transparency and accountability that taxpayers deserve.
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the final conference report negotiated by the House and Senate on the Fiscal Year 2016 budget resolution. “This is a bold, common sense approach to balancing the budget in under a decade, while stopping the federal government from continuing its out-of-control spending,” said Rep. Bost. “This budget does so without raising the taxes of hardworking families in Southern Illinois—many of whom are already struggling to make ends meet. It also fully repeals Obamacare and boosts defense spending above the President’s request.” FY16 Congressional Balanced Budget by the Numbers: Balances the budget in 10 years without raising taxes; Sets the stage for improved long-term economic growth and job creation; Provides $5 trillion in savings over 10 years; and Creates a $32 billion surplus in 2024 and $24 billion surplus in 2025.
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. — Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement concerning today’s U.S. Commerce Department report indicating U.S. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in first quarter of 2015: “First quarter GDP numbers indicated our economy is at a virtual dead stop,” said Rep. Bost. “Today’s news comes on the heels of a poor March jobs report which showed the fewest amount of new jobs added to the economy since December of 2013. To make matters worse, the President wants to raise taxes while he continues to ignore the underlying problems: massive debt, burdensome regulations and not enough good-paying jobs for middle class families. The hardworking people of Southern Illinois deserve better.”
04.22.2015	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the bipartisan Protecting Cyber Networks Act (H.R. 1731), which allows private companies to protect American consumers by voluntarily sharing cyber threat information with each other and the federal government, excluding the National Security Agency (NSA) or the Department of Defense. “Every day we see headlines where criminals are targeting American businesses for cyber-attacks, espionage, and theft,” said Rep. Bost. “These thugs steal our intellectual property, trade secrets, and even sensitive government information. The House has acted to allow American companies to share cyber threat information with each other and the proper authorities to help catch these thieves and strengthen our security networks. Just as importantly, we’ve taken critical steps to ensure that the American people’s privacy and civil liberties are safeguarded.” The Protecting Cyber Networks Act includes the following: Requires companies to remove personal information before they share cyber threat information with the government; Creates restrictions on the use, retention, and searching of any data voluntarily shared by the private sectors with the government; Enforces strong privacy and civil liberties protections and permits individuals to sue the federal government for intentional privacy violations in federal court; Provides strong public and Congressional oversight; and Rep. Bost also supported an amendment to sunset the law after 7 years.
04.16.2015	Rep. Bost Votes to Rein in IRS and Repeal Death Tax On Tax Day, Rep. Bost Supports “Taxpayer Bill of Rights” Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for several bills to cut down on burdensome federal regulations on small businesses and to give taxpayers a “Bill of Rights” in dealing with the IRS. “As a small business owner myself, I’ve seen firsthand how the overreach of the IRS and high taxes can take the incentive and lifeblood out of job creators who want nothing more than to expand operations and hire new employees,” said Rep. Bost. “We’re punishing our businesses and discouraging investment, and it needs to stop now.” “That being said, there may be no more insidious tax on hardworking Americans than the ‘Death Tax.’ After folks work a lifetime to provide for their family, the last thing the federal government should be worried about is taking a cut out of the money they leave to their children and grandchildren when they pass away. We need to bury the Death Tax, permanently.” Rep. Bost co-sponsored three bills that passed the House including: The Taxpayer Bill of Rights Act of 2015 (H.R. 1058). This establishes a strong set a basic rights for taxpayers when dealing with the IRS including the right to quality service, the right to confidentiality, and the right to appeal and have their challenge be heard. The Fair Treatment for all Gifts Act (H.R. 1104). This prevents the abuse of power by the IRS of applying a “gift tax” to donations to nonprofit organizations. The Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015 (H.R. 1105). This bill will permanently repeal the federal estate tax and generation skipping tax.
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) hosted Deputy U.S. Trade Representative and Ambassador to the World Trade Organization (WTO) Michael Punke in his Washington, D.C., office for a discussion on trade issues, illegal steel dumping, and its impact on the temporary idling of 2,080 employees at Granite City Works. Bost’s meeting, which included Congressmen John Shimkus (IL-15) and Rodney Davis (IL-13), comes on the heels of a letter the delegation sent to the White House this week demanding a crackdown on the illegal trade practices that are destroying U.S. steel jobs. “There’s no better way to deliver a message than by looking folks in the eyes and sharing the concerns of your district,” said Rep. Bost. “That’s why I was pleased to welcome Mr. Punke to my office where I could share the impact that illegal trade practices have had on the steelworkers in Southern Illinois. The Administration must do a better job of upholding our current trade laws to prevent similar situations in the future. Hopefully this meeting will allow us to continue an open dialogue with the Administration on these and other issues negatively impacting hardworking families, our communities and the economy in Southern Illinois.” During the meeting, Rep. Bost spoke of the need to address the ever changing methods and strategies certain countries use to evade our trade laws and pushed Ambassador Punke on the Obama Administration’s plans to implement these into trade agreements. Background: Immediately after U.S. Steel’s announcement that it would temporarily idle its Granite City Works in Madison County, Rep. Bost met with officials with U.S. Steel and the United Steelworkers. Rep. Bost also met with elected officials in Madison County directly impacted by the temporary idling. Rep. Bost then drafted a letter to the Obama Administration requesting to meet with the Trade Representative to address reasons behind the plant’s temporarily idling.
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mike Bost (IL-12) was joined by Sen. Mark Kirk, Rep. John Shimkus (IL-15), and Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13) in sending a letter to President Obama urging a face-to-face meeting with the United States Trade Representative and the Department of Commerce to discuss illegal foreign trade practices harming the domestic steel industry. Last month, U.S. Steel announced plans to temporarily idle its Granite City Works facility, affecting 2,080 Southern Illinois steelworkers. “After U.S. Steel announced it would temporarily idle its facility in Granite City, leaving more than 2,000 Southern Illinois steelworkers out of work, I immediately met with company officials and local steelworkers to ensure that these temporary layoffs would be as short as possible,” said Rep. Bost. “But if we want to minimize the risk of a similar idling in the future, we must address the reasons behind it. While illegal trade practices are not the only factors negatively impacting the marketplace, they’re a primary factor. I’m pleased my colleagues in the Illinois delegation have joined me in urging the federal government to do a better job of upholding the letter and the spirit of our trade laws.” In addition to unfair trade practices, U.S. Steel executives cited other global influences in the marketplace – such as reduced steel prices and fluctuating oil prices – as contributing factors in the idling of Granite City Works. To view the letter sent to President Obama by the Illinois Delegation, click here.
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) testified before the House Armed Services Committee in support of the U.S. Navy’s request of funding for the production of twelve F/A-18 aircraft, also known as the Super Hornet. “The Navy’s F-18 aircraft conduct critical strike fighter missions against ISIL and other Al-Qaeda affiliated terrorist organizations and are a national security asset we must protect,” said Rep. Bost. “In addition, Boeing’s continued production of this aircraft right here in the St Louis region is critical in strengthening the local defense industrial base, which employs thousands of hardworking men and women.” “The current state of turmoil in the Middle East makes it more critical than ever that we ensure our military has the tools it needs to fulfill its mission in the fight against terrorism. These aircraft provide unique and essential electronic sensing and attack capabilities to the United States Navy and coalition forces.” Boeing’s Impact to the 12th Congressional District of Illinois: 850 Boeing employees work and live in the District; Suppliers and vendors spend $6.5 million annually in the District; and Boeing provides more than 60,000 U.S. jobs with 800 supplier partners throughout the United States.
04.07.2015	Washington, D.C.— Today, Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) announced he will continue his “Take Your Congressman to Work” program at the Burger Nook in Herrin, IL. Rep. Bost will also be distributing free books to children in the Head Start Program in Carbondale and touring the AG Department at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Wednesday, April 8th, 2015 Events for Rep. Bost “Take Your Congressman to Work Day” Burger Nook, 900 South Park Avenue Herrin, IL 62948 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Head Start Pre-School Free Book Distribution/Rep. Bost Reading to Kids 1900 North Illinois Avenue Carbondale, IL 62901 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Tour Southern Illinois University School of Agriculture 125 Lincoln Drive Carbondale, IL 62901 2:00 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. Pizza and Politics Paul Simon Center-Southern Illinois University Forestry Building, Carbondale, IL 62901 4:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. All are media representatives are invited to attend each event.
04.03.2015	Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement concerning the U.S. Labor Department’s jobs report that indicated only 126,000 jobs were added during the month of March: “I am disappointed at today’s report indicating that the U.S. economy last month created the fewest jobs since December of 2013. This is a problem that's rooted in bad policy, as the President and his Administration continue to spend more money than we take in, ignore our massive debt, intensely overregulate, and raise taxes when we should be doing the exact opposite. When hardworking people in Southern Illinois and folks around the country are able to keep more of their paychecks and small businesses are free from overregulation, only then can we have a sustained economic recovery.”
04.01.2015	Washington, D.C.— Wednesday morning, Congressmen Mike Bost (IL-12) baked bread, kneaded dough, and served customers at the family-owned Duke Bakery in Alton for his first "Take Your Congressman to Work Day" event. The program, which Bost will continue to host on job sites throughout the 12th District, is a way to highlight the successes of locally owned and operated businesses and to better understand the work their employees do on a daily basis. “Our 'Take Your Congressman to Work Day' program is a fun way to highlight the great work Southern Illinois' job creators are doing to grow our local economy," said Rep. Bost. "Coming from a small business background myself, I know what a commitment it takes as a family to maintain and grow a business. Since 1951, the Doucleff family has been successful with their family-owned bakery by expanding to another location and building a warehouse to serve area restaurants and grocery stores. The company is now in its third generation of ownership and is still going strong with the help of some truly dedicated employees." For other local businesses interested in participating in Bost's "Take Your Congressman to Work Day" program, please contact his office at 618-233-8026.
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to permanently fix the broken Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), the formula by which doctors are reimbursed for serving patients on Medicare. The bipartisan vote provides long term certainty for doctors and a permanent fix for the 53 million seniors who depend on Medicare. “People in Southern Illinois elected me to put their best interests first, and that includes seniors concerned about getting the quality health care they deserve. This bipartisan legislation will fix the broken formula that determined what doctors were paid for treating Medicare patients. By stopping the endless cycle of yearly freezes in physician payments, doctors can keep their focus on what’s important: caring for seniors when they need help the most. I am pleased that Republicans and Democrats put partisanship aside to do the right thing; that’s what the American people expect of us.” The plan Bost voted for was endorsed by a large coalition on healthcare stakeholders, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, the March of Dimes, and the 60 Plus Association.
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12) John Shimkus (IL-) and Rodney Davis (IL-) issued statements concerning the temporary closure of the Granite City Plant by U.S. Steel. The plant will idle for an undetermined amount time on May 28th, affecting 2,080 workers. “I am saddened by this announcement and the impact it will have on so many hardworking steel families in Southern Illinois, said Rep. Mike Bost. “Granite City Works is a critical driver of the Metro East economy, and we must do all we can to ensure the closure is, indeed, temporary. Since the announcement, I have met with the heads of U.S. Steel and the United Steelworkers Union to offer any help I can provide at this difficult time. As soon as I get home this week, I will be meeting personally with elected officials and the steelworkers impacted by this decision.” “My heart goes out to the Granite City mill workers and their families,” said Rep. John Shimkus. “These men and women, along with thousands more steelworkers around the country, deserve my personal and our collective support. I’ve stood with them for more than a decade in the fight against foreign steel dumping and I still do. As we await word on the future of the Granite City Works, I’ll continue to fight for workers by supporting policies that grow our economy and restore demand for American-made steel.” "I am very disappointed by U.S. Steel's decision to temporarily close their plant in Granite City and my thoughts are with those workers and their families who may lose their job as a result," said Rep. Rodney Davis. "My office has been in contact with representatives from U.S. Steel about this issue and we will work with state and federal officials to ensure those being displaced have all the tools at their disposal to find new employment or seek other opportunities. As a member of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I will continue to work with the steel industry on ways to protect and grow jobs here in Illinois."
03.18.2015	Washington, D.C.—Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressmen Mike Bost (R-IL) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) introduced bipartisan legislation, the Stronger Voice for Small Business Act. The bill permits job creators to directly appeal to the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Office of Hearings and Appeals when challenging an inappropriate SBA size standard, a change that saves small businesses from a costly and time consuming litigation process. “As a small business owner myself, I understand that small businesses are the lifeblood of our economy,” said Rep. Bost. “The SBA’s designation of a business as large or small has a major impact in determining whether they can apply for lending or financial assistance programs or whether they receive preference in the sale of goods and services to the Federal Government. In order to grow jobs and hire more workers, small businesses must have certainty and a clearer definition of the guidelines used to determine their size and status.” “The controversy surrounding SBA’s recent proposal to eliminate the Information Technology Value Added Resellers exception is only the latest in a series of problems that have emerged as result of SBA’s antiquated and static approach to establishing size standards,” said Rep. Connolly. “The bipartisan Bost-Connolly legislation recognizes that small businesses themselves are often the best experts at determining which companies should qualify for SBA programs, and it will empower American small businesses to help enhance the accuracy and size standards by guaranteeing that their voices are heard by SBA.” The "Stronger Voice for Small Business Act" will be referred to the House Small Business Committee for further consideration.
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after voting to continue funding the Department of Homeland Security: “The people of Southern Illinois sent me to Congress to cut through the partisanship and get things done. There is no issue where this responsibility weighs heavier than on issues of national security. As House Republicans continue to fight to secure our borders, I simply could not support a funding shutdown for the very department that’s charged with keeping us safe. “My vote for a fully-funded Department of Homeland Security is in no way an endorsement of this President’s failed and unconstitutional action on illegal immigration. I am closely watching the federal court decision after an injunction was issued on the President’s executive amnesty orders. “This first court ruling on restraining the President’s quest for unrestrained power is a significant victory for those of us who believe in the limits of government power under the Constitution. Up until this point, we have not had a single court decision on the President’s executive overreach. Now a Federal Court has issued an injunction, blocking the President’s executive amnesty.”
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed both Houses of Congress Tuesday morning: “It was an honor to witness the Israeli Prime Minister speak to a joint session of Congress today. I believe that this Congress plays a critical role in helping maintain the security, religious freedom and democracy of Israel. With the spreading uncertainty and unrest in the Middle East, Israel's steadfast friendship remains more important to the United States than ever before. Now more than ever, our nation needs to stand by and support its important ally as the threat of Iran armed with a nuclear weapon is an unacceptable threat to Israel and the United States.”
02.24.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement concerning President Obama carrying out his veto threat of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: “After the bipartisan passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act in the House and Senate, I am extremely disappointed that President Obama carried out his threat of vetoing a jobs bill that would provide 42,000 Americans with work. This legislation was another step in making America more energy independent, and had the support of more than 60 percent of Americans.” “While the House and Senate continue to offer solutions that will create jobs, grow the economy, and lower energy costs, the President issues threats. Keystone should be about jobs and domestic energy—not politics and ideology.” ###
02.18.2015	Washington, D.C.--"The Federal Court ruling is win for the rule of law and a vindication for Americans who expect their government to abide by the Constitution. I hope this will serve as a wake up call to Harry Reid and other Senate Democrats who are holding up consideration of a House-passed homeland security funding bill in an effort to preserve this executive overreach. It's not right, it's dangerous, and the American people deserve better."
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted for the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act (H.R. 636). The bill is a package of three tax bills that are intended to help reduce taxes on small businesses. “Southern Illinois and America need a true economic recovery by helping the life-blood of our economy—small businesses,” said Rep. Bost. “Even though our nation may be showing some signs of recovery, we still have too many people unemployed due to job-killing taxes which halt business expansion and entrepreneurship. “I will continue to fight for job creators and hardworking middle class families in Congress. As we move to put in place these fixes, we must work toward comprehensive tax reform that makes our system simpler, flatter, and fairer, with lower rates for everyone,” added Bost. “That’s what’s needed to grow our economy and help create good jobs from the ground up.” H.R. 636 will give small businesses the certainty they need to grow. By allowing small businesses and farms to plan for the future; and With sensible steps, we can take to add a little certainty to our broken tax code.
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) announced he will spend his first constituent work week, beginning next Monday, conducting a “Southern Illinois Jobs Tour.” The tour will take him to every corner of the 12th Congressional District holding roundtable meetings, education-related forums, and industry tours focused on job growth and empowering middle class families. “As a small business owner and lifelong Southern Illinoisan, I know there’s no more important issue to our district than jobs,” said Bost. “I look forward to spending my first full week home talking about jobs and economic growth with small business owners, community leaders, and hardworking families from across the district. The House has already passed important bipartisan legislation to construct the Keystone XL pipeline and lessen the burden of Washington regulation on job creators, and I’m excited to hear from my constituents on those issues as well.” Local media is invited unless otherwise indicated below. Monday, February 16 Agriculture Tour at Prairie Farms 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. 742 N. Illinois Avenue Carbondale, IL 62901 Murphysboro Chamber of Commerce Lunch 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 17th Street BBQ 32 North 17th Street Murphysboro, IL 62966 Good Samaritan House 2:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m. 701 South Marion Street Carbondale, IL 62901 Tuesday, February 17 Continental Tire Plant Tour* 11:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. 11525 North IL Route 142 Mt. Vernon, IL 62864 *Also attending: Rep. John Shimkus (IL-13) and State Rep. Terri Bryant (IL-115) Roundtable Lunch with Local Business Owners (CLOSED TO MEDIA) 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Mt. Vernon, IL 62824 Walgreens Distribution Center Tour (CLOSED TO MEDIA) 3:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Mt. Vernon, IL 62864 Wednesday, February 18 Southwestern Illinois College--Industrial Technology Center Tour 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. 4950 Maryville Road Granite City, IL 62221 Rep. Mike Bost Belleville Office Open House 12:00 p.m.-1:00 p.m. 23 Public Square Belleville, IL 62220 Hardhat Tour at Metro East Industries (CLOSED TO MEDIA) 3:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. East St. Louis, IL 62205 Thursday, February 19 Veterans’ Healthcare and Jobs Tour of John Cochran VA Center (CLOSED TO MEDIA) 1:30 p.m.-3:00 p.m. St. Louis, MO 63106 Friday, February 20 Shawnee Community College 9:30 a.m.-10:30 a.m. 8364 Shawnee College Road Ullin, IL 62962 Carbondale Chamber of Commerce Annual Dinner 5:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. SIU Student Center Ballroom Carbondale, IL 62903
02.05.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12), voted to give millions of Americans employed by small businesses a stronger voice in the regulatory process. Rep. Bost sits on the Committee on Small Business. “Federal regulators are run amuck with thousands of job-killing rules which are impediments to business expansion,” said Rep. Bost. Small businesses create nearly 4 out of every 5 new jobs in the economy. However, government regulations often disproportionately impact small businesses, which face high regulatory cost burdens compared to larger businesses. This legislation provides much needed help for our small businesses, which are such a critical part of the economy in Southern Illinois.” The Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015 does the following: Strengthens and modernizes the Regulatory Flexibility Act (1980) to give millions of Americans employed by small businesses the voice they deserve in the regulatory process; Clarifies that agencies have to consider indirect economic effects as well as direct economic effects; Eliminates the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) favorite loopholes to avoid communicating with small businesses; Gives small businesses earlier input on new rules through Small Business Advocacy Review panels; and Makes agencies periodically review existing regulations and reduce where feasible.
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) voted to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 596) in the U.S. House of Representatives. “President Obama promised this law would reduce costs and improve access to care,” said Rep. Bost. “Instead, we’ve seen just the opposite happen. The American people now know this plan is unaffordable and unworkable and needs to be repealed. Just ask the residents and small businesses in Illinois directly impacted by Obamacare.” Illinois residents are facing sticker shock due to Obamacare. Plans don’t pay out until consumers meet deductibles of $8700 or more. (WFLD-IL, 12/11/14) Obamacare is forcing Illinois small business owners to cut worker's hours and raise prices. (WMBD-IL, 9/3/14) Illinois resident Jennifer Hunt estimates her new insurance premiums will be twice to three times higher than her mortgage. (WAND-IL, 10/20/14) “Americans should have the right to make their own health care choices,” said Rep. Bost. “We need to listen to the American people so we get health care reform right, with common sense reforms that won’t put the government in between doctors and patients.”
02.02.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost issued the following statement on President Obama’s FY2016 Budget: “In November, the American people sent a clear message they wanted Congress to stop the out-of-control spending in Washington and work toward a balanced budget. But that’s the last thing the President’s budget proposal accomplishes. Instead, it’s more of the same tax and spend policies that have crippled the middle class. “Today, Americans are making less and paying more as a result of this administration’s failed economic policies. The government has continued to get bigger and more powerful while working American families find it harder to make ends meet. We need a responsible budget that puts hardworking Americans first and stops feeding an already bloated federal government. “President Obama’s Groundhog Day budget promises more of the same failed tax and spend policies that have produced few jobs but lots of debt. Frankly, I’d rather take another six weeks of winter.”
01.21.2015	Washington, D.C.—Tonight, Congressman Mike Bost (IL-12) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama addressed both Houses of Congress during the State of the Union at the U.S. Capitol: “Tonight, President Obama had a golden opportunity to deliver a bold message of leadership that would help us move past the partisan gridlock in Washington. Instead, he doubled down on the same big government agenda rejected by the American people last November. In my short time in Congress, I have already worked with Republicans and Democrats to approve bipartisan legislation that will help the American people get back to work and stimulate the economy. Unfortunately, the President is already saying he will veto these bills and is leaving no room for compromise. Instead of his solution of higher taxes and more regulation, we need to work together to get things done and grow the economy from the bottom up—creating new, good-paying jobs. We can’t get there with an agenda that puts the burden on the backs of America’s taxpayers.”
01.14.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (R-IL) voted for five amendments to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security funding bill that seek to prevent federal agencies from carrying out the Obama Administration’s immigration executive orders. “Just last week I took the oath of office to uphold the Constitution and serve as your Representative in Congress for the 12th District of Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “That’s what today’s votes were all about. We’re putting a stop to the President’s unilateral action on immigration. Passage of these amendments by the House will defund the President’s unlawful executive order in its entirety. America is a nation of immigrants and I am committed to advancing an immigration system that rewards those who come here legally, not one that incentivizes breaking the law.” This funding bill enhances border security, provides for stringent oversight, increases transparency within the Department of Homeland Security, and bolsters immigration and customs enforcement – while also protecting American workers here at home.
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (R-IL) voted for the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 185) which changes the process in which federal agencies formulate new regulations. “Each and every day, Southern Illinois families, farmers and job creators have to tighten their belts and weigh the costs of major financial decisions; the Federal Government should be no different,” said Rep. Bost. “Unfortunately, it has been common practice for federal agencies to pursue excessive, job-crushing regulations that only make it tougher for hardworking Americans to get ahead. This legislation takes an important step in bringing more rationality to the regulatory process.” The annual cost of federal regulations adds up to approximately $1.86 trillion or $15,000 in regulatory costs per family each year. This is a key factor stifling economic recovery and the creation of new jobs, especially in manufacturing and construction industries. “From the beginning, this administration promised the American people it would be one of the most transparent and accountable in American history,” added Rep. Bost. “Reality has been far from the case. By improving the process federal agencies use to make their decisions, this legislation will reduce unwarranted and burdensome regulations that will have a negative, financial impact on small businesses and hardworking families.”
01.09.2015	"But if he does, he’s going to send a clear message, I’m afraid, to those people in my district that their jobs are not that important,” Bost said. To read entire article, click here. Read more here: https://www.bnd.com/2015/01/07/3597559_bost-decries-obamas-plan-to-veto.html?rh=1#storylink=cpy
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—After being in office less than a week, today Congressman Mike Bost (R-IL) delivered his first floor speech to stress the importance of the passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act (H.R. 26). “The refinery in Wood River has already had a $4 billion upgrade in anticipation of the passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline, creating hundreds of jobs for Southern Illinois,” said Rep. Bost. “Construction of this needed extension would deliver similar benefits to other areas of the country, creating an estimated 42,200 jobs in the construction, manufacturing, transportation and services industries. This project is critical to our region in growing jobs and expanding the economy.” “Today will be the tenth time the House has voted to approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline,” added Bost. “This new Congress is a chance for a fresh start to end years of gridlock on projects like this that are overwhelmingly supported by the American people.” A diverse coalition of businesses and unions in the construction and trade industries has come out in support of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act (H.R. 26). The bill overwhelmingly passed the House on Friday.
01.08.2015	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Mike Bost (R-IL) joined with his House colleagues in voting for The American Workers Act (H.R. 30) which restores the 40-hour workweek re-defined by Obamacare. “I cosponsored and voted for this bill after Obama’s health care law put 10 million workers at risk of having their work hours reduced so that employers could avoid mandates in Obamacare,” said Rep. Mike Bost. “I thought of the conversation I had in O’Fallon this summer with a waitress who was working three jobs in order to support her grandchild, due to the fact her employers couldn’t give her any more hours because of Obamacare mandates.” “Today, we protected hard-working men and women in Southern Illinois who are still having trouble making ends meet,” added Bost. “When I travel my district and talk to constituents, I hear about the impact of this poorly designed health care law. We need to be working with the American people, not against them.” The American Workers Act (H.R. 30) repeals the 30-hour worker definition as a full-time employee as a result of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and replaces it with 40 hours. Economists at UC-Berkley estimate that workers in industries with high percentages of employees working slightly over 30 hours per week are extremely vulnerable to a reduction in work hours because of the employer mandate in Obamacare.
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Mike Bost was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Mike Bost was elected to serve as representative of Illinois’s 12th Congressional District. Representative Mike Bost was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
