10.18.2018	House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) and Representatives Devin Nunes (CA-22), David G. Valadao (CA-21), Jeff Denham (CA-10), Ken Calvert (CA-42), Tom McClintock (CA-4), and Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) released the following statement today on President Trump’s executive memorandum on western water: “The President’s announcement is an immense relief for the farmers and families of the San Joaquin Valley and communities across California. Due to the actions of environmental extremists and overzealous bureaucrats, California has been suffering from a years-long water crisis that has wreaked havoc in Central Valley farming communities that feed tens of millions of Americans. Productive land has gone fallow and farmworkers have lost their jobs. Communities across California have also been devastated as senseless government regulations have mandated that billions of gallons of water be flushed out to the ocean and wasted. Now, with this executive action, there is a strict timetable for rewriting the biological opinions that lie at the root of the water crisis. This executive action also prioritizes building critical projects to expand water storage in our state so that we can store more water during wet years for use in dry years. We commend President Trump for taking decisive action today that will build on the success of the WIIN Act, cut through bureaucratic roadblocks, address Sacramento’s radical water grab, and increase the water supply to farms and communities across the state. California families can now rest assured that help is on the way.”
07.20.2018	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) has introduced a bill in the House of Representatives to eliminate capital gains taxes on inflation. By ending this unfair tax, the Capital Gains Inflation Relief Act (H.R 6444) will encourage both individual and business investment that will expand the economy and create jobs. “This bill will continue the tax-cutting trend that began with the tax relief bill last year,” said Rep. Nunes. “This is a common-sense reform that will remove an unjust tax, contribute to economic growth, and help both large and small investors keep more of their own money.” For bill text, a legislative summary, and other information on the bill, click here.
05.04.2017	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the American Health Care Act: “The House of Representatives took a big step today toward abolishing the failing Obamacare program and replacing it with a system that provides much better care at lower prices. Central Valley residents have been saddled for far too long with high prices, while many Medi-Cal participants are burdened by minimal healthcare choices, with some participants even forced to travel to the Bay area or Los Angeles to see specialists. The bill passed by the House today will make healthcare available to every American who wants it while protecting those with pre-existing conditions.”
11.11.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) released the following statement today after joining the executive committee of Donald Trump’s transition team: “Today I was honored to have been named to the executive committee of President-elect Donald Trump's transition team. In this role, I will advise President-elect Trump on the appointments of his Cabinet members and on appointments to other top positions in the new administration. I look forward to helping to assemble an energetic and forward-looking team that will capably lead our country toward more economic growth, greater opportunity, and a safer homeland for all Americans.” # # #
10.18.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) is introducing a new internship program focused on developing technical communications skills. Participants in the program, the Technology and Education Center, will identify topics of public interest as the basis for communications projects. Using video, photography, and technical editing tools, interns will create audiovisual reports and presentations that will be disseminated to a public audience through social media, Congressman Nunes’ website, and other means. “I’m excited to introduce an innovative program that will help interns develop analytical and technical skills for exploring a wide array of contemporary topics,” said Congressman Nunes. “For those interested in careers in politics, public policy, and communications, it’s increasingly important to have the skills to present your message in inventive, compelling ways.” Selected largely from universities and two-year colleges in the San Joaquin Valley, participants will work out of Congressman Nunes’ Clovis office for their semester-long internships. For more information, applicants can contact Crystal Ragan at (559) 302-6897.
06.24.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) issued the following statement today after House Republicans released their tax reform blueprint: “This is a really bold and aggressive plan that would essentially junk the current tax code and scrap the IRS as we know it. Measures like full expensing for business investment and the move toward a territorial tax system are exactly what the U.S. needs to create jobs, encourage start-up businesses, end the exodus of U.S. companies abroad, and regain our competitive edge. These reforms would revolutionize the tax code so that it would help propel the economy forward instead of hindering it at every turn. Over the coming months, I look forward to hearing feedback from a wide array of families, workers, entrepreneurs, and small business owners, so we can refine this plan and begin the process of turning it into law.” For more information on the blueprint, click on the tax reform icon here.
06.15.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, introduced a bill in the House of Representatives today encouraging the Department of the Interior to advance its plan to sell two leases for energy development in the Arctic. The Arctic lease sales are included in the Department of the Interior’s draft plan for its 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program. However, after canceling the draft plan’s approval of new drilling in the southeast Atlantic Ocean, the Obama administration has come under pressure from environmental activists to scrap the Arctic lease sales in an effort to fight global warming. Estimated to contain at least 34 billion barrels of oil equivalent, the Arctic holds vast energy resources whose development would increase U.S. energy security, spark economic growth in neighboring Alaskan communities, and reverse the rapidly declining operation of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System. “For the sake of our national security, America needs an all-of-the-above energy policy that allows us to produce our own cheap, reliable energy instead of importing it from dictators, unstable governments, and hostile foreign regimes,” said Congressman Nunes. “But we won’t achieve energy independence by blocking development of our most promising energy resources. Canceling the Arctic lease sales would be a self-defeating action that would not have the slightest effect on global warming—it would merely surrender the development of Arctic energy to rival nations like Russia.” Text of the bill is available here.
04.05.2016	House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes released the following statement today on the recent fighting in Nagorno-Karabakh: "The clashes in Nagorno-Karabakh risk escalating into a dangerous, wider war. The ceasefire must be scrupulously observed, while Azerbaijan needs to implement widely-supported peacekeeping measures along the line of contact, including a withdrawal of snipers and an expanded role for the OSCE."
03.21.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) today introduced a bill in the House of Representatives to encourage transparency in state and local pension systems and to prevent federal bailouts of insolvent pension plans. State and local pension systems may seem fiscally secure, but that is often a façade created by assuming unrealistic rates of returns on investments and by using other accounting tricks. In fact, a forthcoming report from Stanford Professor of Finance Joshua Rauh estimates that the fiscal hole for state and municipal public employee pension plans is an astounding $3.4 trillion. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act, known as “PEPTA,” would require state and local government pension plans to disclose their liabilities in a uniform and transparent manner based on widely accepted accounting principles. This information would be made available by the Secretary of the Treasury to the public through a searchable website. State and local governments that fail to disclose the requested information would have their federal tax-exempt bonding authority eliminated. The bill also prohibits the federal government from bailing out state and local pension systems. “Many state and local pension funds are hiding vast debts through accounting gimmicks,” said Congressman Nunes. “The taxpayers—who will be forced to pay off these enormous debts if pension systems go insolvent—have a right to know the true condition of these pension plans, and the systems’ participants need to know how secure their benefits are. The fact that public pension debt helped spur the Puerto Rican debt crisis should serve as a warning of the devastating effects that can result from underfunded pension systems.” The bill text is available here. More information on the bill is available here.
01.13.2016	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, introduced a bill in the House of Representatives today that would overhaul the system for taxing businesses. Supported by twenty-six cosponsors, the American Business Competitiveness Act (ABC Act) would drastically simplify the business tax code by eliminating the income tax on businesses and replacing it with a cash flow tax. The bill implements four main provisions: Allowing for 100 percent, same-year expensing for business investments. Setting a maximum business tax rate of 25 percent. Eliminating all loopholes and special deals on business taxes. Switching to a territorial international system. “These simple rules will revolutionize the system for taxing businesses,” Rep. Nunes said. “The expensing provision and the low rates will create a huge incentive for businesses to invest money to expand their operations. Meanwhile, by treating all businesses the same regardless of their size or how they’re organized, we’ll create a level playing field for startups and small businesses to compete with bigger firms. Additionally, we can expect huge sums of money parked abroad to flow back into the United States thanks to the switch to a territorial system. These factors combined will essentially turn the United States into a giant tax haven, jolting the economy in a way we’ve never seen before.” For more information on the ABC Act (H.R. 4377), click here. # # #
01.11.2016	House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes released the following statement today on developments in East Asia: "In light of the recent nuclear test by North Korea, it is vital for the United States to further strengthen our alliance with Japan and to continue our policy of extended deterrence. We should also strengthen trilateral cooperation with Japan and South Korea. The recently announced agreement on issues related to comfort women is a big step forward in improving relations between these two close American allies. I commend Prime Minister Abe and President Park for their strong leadership and support their efforts to put to rest this long-running dispute. These two nations are anchors of stability and democracy in East Asia that share the United States’ interest in safeguarding peace and freedom in the region."
12.15.2015	House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (CA-22) today introduced a bill in the House of Representatives to crack down on international funding of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). The IRGC is a sprawling branch of the Iranian military responsible for numerous terrorist attacks throughout the world, including its provision of weapons and other support for Iraqi terrorists who killed U.S. soldiers. The organization also controls wide swathes of the Iranian economy, using income from its business interests to fund its terrorist activities. As a result of President Obama’s nuclear agreement with Iran, an array of institutions controlled by the IRGC will be removed from the Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationalities. This action will allow IRGC-affiliated banks and companies to increase their international business activities, creating a new flow of funds for Iran’s primary terror apparatus. Co-sponsored by eighteen Members of Congress, the IRGC Sanctions Act will ban any U.S. person from engaging in financial transactions with IRGC-affiliated companies. Additionally, the bill will: Create a Watch List for IRGC-affiliated individuals. Specify that Congress must approve a decision to remove a country from the list of State Sponsors of Terrorism. Require all U.S. securities issuers to report to the Securities and Exchange Commission any transaction with the IRGC. Prevent Iran from gaining normal trade ties with the United States unless the U.S. President certifies that the Iranian regime grants its citizens the freedom to emigrate. “The IRGC is one of the primary supporters of international terrorism in the world,” said Chairman Nunes. “Its tentacles reach throughout the Iranian economy and into international commerce. In light of the relief provided to the IRGC in President Obama’s nuclear agreement, Congress needs to ensure that this dangerous organization cannot attain new financial means to expand its power and threaten the American people and our servicemen and women.” Text of the IRGC Sanctions Act is available here. More information on the bill is available here and here.
10.29.2015	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) today issued the following statement announcing his intention to remain Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: “I am honored to have been asked by the new Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, to continue serving as Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. Our nation faces unprecedented global threats ranging from the growing risk of deadly terrorism to debilitating cyber-attacks, and the Intelligence Community’s response to these threats requires diligent Congressional oversight. After careful reflection and in light of the Speaker’s wish for me to continue this important role, I have decided to remain Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. As we move forward under the leadership of Speaker Ryan, it will be important to complete the good work we have done on an intelligence authorization bill and to get cybersecurity legislation passed to the President’s desk.” Speaker Ryan said, “The world has gotten only more dangerous, and serious times call for serious leaders. That’s why I’ve asked Rep. Devin Nunes to stay on as chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. Devin and Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry have done great work holding the administration accountable for its national-security failures, and I want them to continue their strong partnership. Though Congressman Nunes has been a terrific ally and staunch defender of conservative principles on the Ways and Means Committee, I am grateful for his continued leadership of the Intelligence Committee.” Rep. Nunes added, “As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, I look forward to continuing our work to resolve our nation’s unfunded liabilities, reform healthcare, open new markets to American goods and services, and especially to overhaul the tax code. These pressing issues are long-time priorities for Speaker Ryan, and I anticipate that Congress will energetically advance solutions under his Speakership.”
09.25.2015	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) released the following statement today in reaction to John Boehner’s announcement of his intention to resign as Speaker of the House: “John Boehner has served with honor and distinction as Speaker of the House, leading the Republican Party as it amassed its biggest House majority in more than eighty years. Against determined opposition, he has guided bills to passage in the House that would implement a conservative agenda that puts America back on the path to prosperity. My three daughters developed a particular fondness for Speaker Boehner on their trips to Washington, and I’m honored to call him a close friend. I’ll miss his steady leadership.”
06.25.2015	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, introduced a bill in the House of Representatives today that would ban Americans from engaging in any financial transactions with the Cuban military or the Cuban Ministry of the Interior, or with any entity controlled by the military or the Ministry. Supported by 32 original cosponsors, the Cuban Military Transparency Act will ensure that the Cuban people, and not the Castro regime’s repressive security apparatus, benefit from any increased trade resulting from the Obama administration’s policy to normalize U.S.-Cuban relations. Chairman Nunes and original cosponsors Mac Thornberry, Chairman of the House Armed Forces Committee, and Rodney Frelinghuysen, Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statements: Chairman Nunes: "Despite the Obama administration’s attempts at reconciliation, the Castro regime continues to oppress the Cuban people and to shelter members of the Cuban military responsible for shooting down U.S. civilian aircraft in the Florida Straits. This bill will ensure that the government entities responsible for these acts – the Cuban military and the Interior Ministry – will not reap the rewards of increased trade with the United States." Chairman Thornberry: "I believe that most Cubans are good people who yearn for freedom and opportunity, but we must ensure that any expansion of trade with or travel to Cuba does not strengthen the brutal Castro regime. I look forward to the day when we can pursue completely free trade and travel between the U.S. and Cuba, but current circumstances require us to move cautiously, as this legislation does." Chairman Frelinghuysen: "While the Obama Administration appears to be handing the Castro regime everything it wants without placing serious demands on the Castro government, it is absolutely unthinkable that the White House would act to benefit the Cuban military which has violated numerous U.N. resolutions and provided aid and comfort to all sorts of malevolent groups in our own hemisphere." # # #
04.01.2015	Congressmen Devin Nunes (CA-22) today released the following statement in reaction to California Governor Jerry Brown’s announcement that he would implement mandatory water restrictions throughout California: “California’s natural drought has not caused the water crisis in the Central Valley, where the irrigation system was built to withstand five consecutive years of drought. I’d prefer to see the crisis here solved by simply restoring our previous water flows, rather than flushing our water out into the ocean and then implementing intrusive water restrictions that will do little or nothing to solve the problem. Now that he has resorted to water rationing, I hope Governor Brown will reconsider his opposition to the bills passed by the House of Representatives over the last four years that would relieve the water crisis, and that he will begin cooperating with us on a solution.” # # #
03.27.2015	The office of Congressmen Devin Nunes (CA-22) is announcing that its long-time chief of staff, Johnny Amaral, will leave the Nunes team to work for Westlands Water District. Having run Rep. Nunes’ first successful campaign for Congress in 2001, Amaral has served as his chief of staff since 2002 and has acted as Rep. Nunes’ top advisor for many of his most important initiatives. In addition to overseeing Rep. Nunes’ staff, Amaral has been a key participant in negotiations over water supplies, public lands, and other pivotal issues. “This has been, by far, the most rewarding job I’ve ever had,” said Amaral. “I’ve had the privilege of meeting a huge number of our constituents and working with the most incredible people in the Central Valley. It was a tough decision to leave this office and our amazing staff, and to part ways with Devin, who is one of my best friends. But I’m looking forward to a new opportunity with Westlands to continue pursuing one of my main goals of the past thirteen years – to end the man-made drought in the Central Valley.” Amaral will join Westlands with the title of Deputy General Manager for External Relations. He will draw upon more than a decade of experience working on water issues, having developed long-standing relationships with Valley families and farmers as well as policymakers and principal stakeholders at the local, state, and federal levels. “Johnny has been crucial to my efforts, both in our home district and in Washington,” said Congressman Nunes. “He has deep knowledge of all the key issues facing Central Valley communities, and has handled even the most difficult problems with absolute professionalism and a dose of good humor. I commend my good friend for his many years of service to the people of the 22nd District. While I’m sad to lose Johnny, I think his hiring by Westlands is a positive sign that the water district intends to take a more engaged, pro-active approach to solving the water crisis.” Amaral will begin at Westlands on May 1. He will be replaced as Rep. Nunes’ chief of staff by Anthony Ratekin, who will rejoin the Nunes staff after previously serving as field representative. Like Amaral, Ratekin was born and raised in the Central Valley and will be based in the Clovis and Visalia offices. # # #
01.20.2015	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Although the House of Representatives passed a cybersecurity bill in the last Congress, our efforts died in the Senate amid a presidential veto threat. So I welcome the President's recognition tonight of the urgent need for legislation to counter the growing menace of cyberattacks. However, the world still faces acute threats from Islamist terrorists, and we need to adopt more robust countermeasures. The recent Paris terrorist attack and the massacre in Nigeria show that the international jihadist movement is not on the run – it is spreading at an alarming pace, and its members are fully committed to attacking the West whenever they can. Just today, the government of Yemen – which the President has upheld as a model of a successful counter-terrorism strategy – was nearly overthrown, while ISIS released a video threatening to behead more hostages. The time for half-measures is over; instead of releasing dangerous terrorists from Guantanamo Bay, the United States needs to hunt down, capture, and interrogate members of these terror networks wherever they are.” # # #
12.12.2014	The omnibus spending bill passed by the House of Representatives includes language to roll back a regulation in the ObamaCare law that put hundreds of Valley jobs at risk. The language, drafted by Republican Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) and Democratic Congressman John Carney (DE), with Congressman David Valadao (CA-21) and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (CA-23) acting as original cosponsors, exempts insurers from certain ObamaCare mandates on policies sold to expatriate Americans and to foreigners living outside their home countries. Those mandates made U.S. insurers’ policies uncompetitive in foreign countries, provoking some insurers to consider downsizing U.S.-based operations and laying off workers, including up to 700 employees in Visalia alone. “This is one of many problems caused by government planners’ attempt to re-engineer the healthcare system through ObamaCare,” said Rep. Nunes. “Thanks to bipartisan cooperation among concerned legislators – including Representative Carney and Senators Carper and Coons, and especially valuable assistance provided by Speaker of the House John Boehner – hundreds of workers no longer face the possible loss of their livelihoods due to careless legislation.” The Senate is expected to approve the rollback today or tomorrow. # # #
12.09.2014	On Tuesday, December 9, 2014, the United States House of Representatives passed legislation aimed at providing immediate emergency drought relief to California. H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act, was introduced on Tuesday, December 2, 2014 by Rep. David G. Valadao (CA-21) to improve the dire drought conditions currently threatening California. The legislation would provide operational flexibility for the two California State water projects in order to immediately provide relief to hardship caused by water supply shortages. This temporary solution would expire after 18 months, on September 30, 2016. The legislation does not amend the Endangered Species Act and has received bipartisan support in the House of Representatives. On Tuesday, December 9, 2014 the legislation passed in the House by a vote of 230-182. Original cosponsors Reps. David G. Valadao (CA-21), Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), Ken Calvert (CA-42), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Tom McClintock (CA-04), and Devin Nunes (CA-22) released the following statement following the passage of the legislation: “Californians are suffering and this bill will provide them with the immediate relief they desperately need. The House of Representatives has recognized the importance of this legislation, not just for California, but for our entire nation. The drought is a natural disaster, and like any other disaster, deserves immediate action. Earlier this year, the House and Senate both passed drought-relief bills, and we entered negotiations to try and find middle ground. Every time we return home, we see how much pain this drought continues to cause. In order to get this bill across the finish line in time for the rainy season, House Republicans included many provisions from the Senate’s own legislation as well as agreed upon language from negotiations in the bill passed in the House today. Unfortunately, Barbara Boxer and many of her Democratic colleagues in the Senate have not shown the same commitment to achieving a solution to the California water crisis as House Republicans have, and they remain opposed even to bipartisan compromise. It is time the Senate recognize the severity of this situation and act on this legislation before they adjourn for the year.” The full text of the bill can be found here. # # #
12.03.2014	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), Chairman-select of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, today announced his senior committee staff members for the next Congress. Staff Director: Jeff Shockey Jeff Shockey has more than two decades’ experience working with and for the U.S. Congress at the highest leadership levels, including having served six years as the Republican Staff Director and Deputy Staff Director for the House Appropriations Committee. As Staff Director, in addition to becoming well versed in classified Department of Defense and intelligence programs, he served as lead negotiator for House Republicans during several appropriations end-games. Shockey was a co-founder and managing partner of Shockey Scofield Solutions and prior to that, a partner in the government relations firm Copeland, Lowery & Jacquez. He had previously worked his way up from Staff Assistant to Legislative Director in the office of former Congressman Jerry Lewis (CA). Shockey holds a BA in Political Science and a Masters in Public Administration from California State University, San Bernardino. Deputy Staff Director: Jennifer Miller Jennifer Miller has served as a professional staff member at the House Committee on Appropriations since 1996. During her tenure, she has managed oversight activities related to numerous federal departments and agencies, including key defense and intelligence programs. Miller also served as the committee’s point person on parliamentary procedures, legislative drafting, and floor management. Prior to joining the Appropriations Committee, Miller served for seven years on the legislative staff of Representative Hal Rogers (KY), who is now Chairman of the Appropriations Committee. A graduate of Indiana University, Jennifer has Bachelor degrees in Russian Language and Literature and Political Science. Senior Adviser: Damon Nelson Damon Nelson has served as Deputy Chief of Staff for Congressman Devin Nunes since 2003. During his tenure, Nelson’s portfolio included defense, national security and foreign affairs. An Air Force veteran and graduate of the Air Command Staff College, he served in numerous assignments receiving an Air Medal and three Air Achievement Medals for his service in the Persian Gulf War. Before joining Congressman Nunes’ staff, he served as Legislative Correspondent for former Congressman Mark Green (WI), Legislative Assistant for former Congressman George Radanovich (CA), and worked on the staff of former British Parliamentarian Malcolm Moss. Nelson earned a Bachelor of Science in Political Science from the University of Maryland University College and a Master of Art in International Relations from Britain’s University of East Anglia. Shockey, Miller and Nelson’s appointments will be effective at the start of the 114th Congress. Additional staff announcements will follow.
11.19.2014	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) issued the following statement after Speaker of the House John Boehner appointed him as the next Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: “At a time when the United States faces major international challenges including significant terror threats, I am honored and humbled to have been entrusted with this position. I’d like to thank Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger for their exceptional bipartisan leadership of the Intelligence Committee. The committee's work is vital because strong congressional oversight of the intelligence community is critical for our national defense posture.” Please see this link for Speaker Boehner’s announcement.
08.01.2014	Today, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) made the following statements on the failure to adopt the Trade Facilitation Agreement protocol in Geneva: Rep. Camp: "India’s actions last night to bring down implementation of the Trade Facilitation Agreement are completely unacceptable and put into doubt its credibility as a responsible trading partner. As we determine next steps, I am committed to the WTO as an institution, and I hope that we can salvage the Trade Facilitation Agreement, either with or without India." Rep. Nunes: "It's one thing for a country to be a tough negotiator. It is entirely another to agree to a deal with your trading partners, and then just simply walk away months later, insisting instead on one-sided changes. That’s what India has done here by going back on its word, running the risk of eliminating any sense of good will toward it." ###
04.30.2014	On a bipartisan vote today, the House of Representatives approved the Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act of 2014 (H.R. 4414). Co-authored by Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Rep. John Carney (D-DE), the bill would exempt expatriate health plans from ObamaCare regulations. These plans offer highly specialized coverage to workers who are employed outside their home country. “This common-sense bill eliminates a competitive disadvantage facing U.S. companies,” said Rep. Nunes. “We know for certain we will lose more than a thousand U.S. jobs if this fix is not approved. Out of concern for these working families, the Senate should pass this bipartisan bill and the President should sign it.” The bill passed the House on a 268-150 vote with the support of sixty Democrats.
03.28.2014	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22), a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement after Committee Chairman Rep. Mike Rogers announced he will not seek re-election to Congress: “Chairman Rogers has been an excellent and energetic chairman of the Intelligence Committee, guiding the committee’s work through the attack on Benghazi, the outbreak of war in Syria, and other challenging issues. Under his leadership, the committee functioned in an effective, bipartisan way. I wish him good luck in his future career in broadcasting, and would be privileged to be considered as his successor as chairman.” # # #
01.31.2014	Congressmen David Valadao, Devin Nunes, and Kevin McCarthy today praised Speaker Boehner, Leader Cantor and Chairman Hastings for swiftly scheduling a floor debate on emergency legislation needed to address devastating water shortages in California. These shortages, which for several years have been primarily the result of failed government policies, have been compounded by a major drought and demand immediate action. The bill, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act (H.R. 3964), has been scheduled for debate next week in the full House. Congressman Valadao stated, “Republican Leadership understands just how important this issue is to our constituents in the Central Valley. The California Delegation has the support of our colleagues in the House of Representatives and I am confident will pass this legislative solution this coming week. It will then be up to California’s Senators to ensure their Chamber understands that Californians are truly suffering and acts upon our proposal quickly.” Congressman Kevin McCarthy stated, “House Republicans have put forth and will vote next week on a solution to California's man-made water problems. Absent immediate action, California farmers and communities will continue to be gripped by the damaging effects of the worst drought in a century. This bill, led by Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), is a responsible answer to the hardship the Central Valley is currently facing. It is absolutely imperative that Senator Boxer and Senator Feinstein respond to this crisis as the House has this year, and in years past. I thank Speaker Boehner, Leader Cantor, and Chairman Hastings for appreciating the urgency of this matter and scheduling a vote on this bill next week.” Congressman Devin Nunes stated, “Next week, I predict the House will again pass comprehensive legislation to solve California’s water crisis. Like two years ago, it will be swiftly transmitted to the Senate. I hope California’s Senators take the time to read the bill and that, given the dire conditions in the State, have the decency to offer their own plan in response. Inaction is not an option.” The Sacramento–San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act (H.R. 3964) restores water reliability to California communities by codifying the bipartisan Bay-Delta Accord. It also reforms onerous federal laws – such as the Central Valley Project Improvement Act and the Endangered Species Act – that have severely curtailed water deliveries and resulted in hundreds of billions of gallons of badly needed water being flushed into the ocean. The bill will be debated next week and is expected to be broadcast live on C-SPAN1. BACKGROUND House Republicans passed comprehensive water policy reform legislation for California (H.R. 1837) on February 29, 2012. The bill would have mitigated the crisis now experienced by many California communities. However, it died in the Senate due to the opposition of California’s Democratic Senators. No Senate hearings were held, nor were any amendments offered or alternatives proposed. Furthermore, the Senate recently prevented the addition of emergency drought relief provisions for California in the Farm Bill. Speaker Boehner and Agriculture Committee Chairman Lucas had tabled a modest plan to provide additional water supplies to desperate communities just prior to the conclusion of the Farm Bill Conference Committee. The opposition of California’s Senators effectively killed the effort. ###
01.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen David Valadao, Devin Nunes, and Kevin McCarthy led the entire California GOP delegation in introducing a comprehensive bill in Congress to resolve the water crisis in California. The Sacramento–San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act (H.R. 3964) restores water reliability to California communities by codifying the bipartisan Bay-Delta Accord. It also reforms onerous federal laws – such as the Central Valley Project Improvement Act and the San Joaquin River Restoration Settlement Act – that have severely curtailed water deliveries and resulted in hundreds of billions of gallons of badly needed water being flushed into the ocean. “Since taking office, ensuring the Central Valley has reliable access to clean, high-quality water has been my number one priority,” said Rep. Valadao. “My district represents a cross-section of San Joaquin Valley water users, as it is home to contractors on both the East and West sides of the Valley, senior water rights holders and State Water Project contractors. My constituents are suffering from drought conditions severely exacerbated by erroneous federal regulations. Families and farmers alike are not receiving the water they need to meet their basic, every day needs. California’s 21st Congressional District is the epicenter of devastation and I, along with my Central Valley colleagues, will do everything in my power to ensure a real solution at the federal level.” “The House has once again proposed a solution to the debilitating water problem that has suppressed economic growth in our communities and cost thousands of people their livelihoods,” said Rep. Nunes. “The time for talk is over. The House has acted, and it’s time for the Senate to join us in providing critical assistance to the people of California.” “The current California drought is a crisis exacerbated by the failure of government to ensure water flows to our communities and farms,” said Rep. McCarthy. “Today, led by my good friend Rep. David Valadao, the entire California Republican delegation in the House introduced legislation to put families before fish. One more day cannot go by without addressing the shortage of a resource so precious to our economy and wellbeing. It is time, as representatives for the entire state, that Senator Boxer and Senator Feinstein support drought stricken Californians and get behind this legislation.” The introduction of the Sacramento–San Joaquin Valley Emergency Water Delivery Act follows numerous initiatives in the House of Representatives to bring relief to drought-stricken farmers and communities. Aside from H.R. 1837 – a comprehensive water fix approved by the House in 2012 – House members recently proposed adding water fixes to the omnibus spending bill and to the Farm Bill. All these efforts were derailed due to opposition in the Senate.
01.25.2014	Congressmen Kevin McCarthy, Devin Nunes, David Valadao, and Jim Costa released the following joint statement in reaction to reports that the Bureau of Reclamation may refuse to provide rescheduled water for farmers from California’s San Joaquin Valley: “Through various conservation techniques and careful planning, many Central Valley farmers have minimized their water usage with the understanding that they can carry over unused water to future years. In many cases, they’ve taken out loans and done their entire crop planning based on this assumption. If the Bureau of Reclamation were to refuse to provide rescheduled water, these responsible farmers would be devastated.’ “In the midst of a severe drought created by the government itself, this action would be like throwing gasoline on a fire. To withhold by government fiat hundreds of thousands of acre feet of water that these growers had already paid for, without compensation to those affected, would be an injustice that is impossible to ignore. If the Bureau takes this unprecedented action, which smacks of an attempt to manufacture a crisis, we would call for a full investigation, including requests to see all internal communications of the officials responsible for making this decision.” ###
01.22.2014	Congressman David G. Valadao (CA-21), Congressman Kevin McCarthy (CA-23), and Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) are developing emergency drought legislation to provide necessary water supplies throughout the state and the Central Valley. The three Congressmen were joined by Speaker of the House John Boehner Wednesday afternoon to announce their legislative proposal to provide immediate relief from the ongoing drought in California. The legislative proposal incorporates three main actions: Turning on the Delta pumps this year and next year to capture future rain events Ending restoration flows in the San Joaquin River for this year and next year in order to stop wasting water Establishing a bipartisan, emergency joint committee from the House and Senate to devise a long-term legislative solution Congressman Valadao stated, “California is facing one of the worst droughts in history. Congress cannot make it rain, but they can provide relief from burdensome environmental regulations. Today I join Speaker John Boehner, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy, and Congressman Devin Nunes in calling for emergency drought legislation that provides immediate relief for farmers, farm workers, and families in the Central Valley.” Congressman McCarthy continued, “As we approach another drought year in the Central Valley, it is imperative that we take immediate action to provide water supplies to our local families, farmers, and small businesses. Restrictive environmental regulations reduce our supplies when water is available in wet years, but exacerbates the negative impacts during years of drought. At a time when we are in dire need of water, we must provide flexibility and allow water to flow around the state. Our legislation that is being developed would provide emergency drought relief for our state and our local communities.” “The Senate’s rejection of all House initiatives to end the crisis has now resulted in an emergency situation throughout California. We hope senators will join us in taking action that will bring immediate relief and ultimately end this man-made crisis,” said Congressman Nunes.
10.29.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jessica Kahanek (Costa) 202-225-3341 Jack Langer (Nunes) 202-225-2523 Anna Vetter (Valadao) 202-225-4695 Reps. Jim Costa, Devin Nunes, and David G. Valadao will welcome 70 Valley World War II veterans to Washington to pay tribute to their sacrifices as many of them tour their memorials for the first time. During the three day trip, the veterans will visit the World War II, Vietnam, and Korean War Memorials along with monuments dedicated to the different branches of the armed services. Their trip will culminate with a visit to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery for the Changing of the Guard. The representatives will host the veterans for a luncheon Wednesday afternoon honoring their service at the Library of Congress, where they will be addressed by fellow World War II veterans Reps. John Dingell (D-MI) and Ralph Hall (R-TX). Congressman Jim Costa (CA-16): “These veterans’ quiet sense of duty and sacrifice is what is best about America and why they along with their peers have come to be known as the Greatest Generation. The amazing work of the Central Valley Honor Flight gives all of us the opportunity to show our gratitude and share our nation’s monuments to their service with our Valley veterans. It is a privilege to be a part of their Tour of Honor.” Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22): “I’d like to extend an enthusiastic welcome to the Honor Flight participants. These distinguished veterans exemplify selflessness, patriotism, and courage, and their visit honors all of us.” Congressman David G. Valadao (CA-21): “We owe a great debt of gratitude to those who fight to preserve our freedom. Our men and women in uniform deserve our appreciation and our respect. This group of Veterans represents America’s greatest generation. Central Valley Honor Flight is a remarkable organization that is truly doing their part to thank our veteran’s. I am honored to be a part of this group’s trip to Washington and am so incredibly thankful for their service to our country.” ###
10.23.2013	Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Paul Tonko (D-NY) along with 110 bipartisan members of the House of Representatives have sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) urging reconsideration of proposed cuts to community cancer clinics contained in the 2014 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule. Specifically, the letter asks CMS to reconsider its proposal to cap reimbursement rates for codes related to chemotherapy administration, diagnostic imaging, and therapeutic radiation. “The proposed payment policy fundamentally threatens community cancer care as we know it today,” said Rep. Nunes. “Hundreds of facilities have already closed due to misaligned payment rates, and many others are being swallowed into hospital systems. We will not achieve our goal – delivering quality care at the best price – by driving community care into the hospital setting. This bipartisan letter encourages CMS to reconsider its proposal.” “By delivering top notch care close to home, community cancer clinics are an essential part of our healthcare system,” said Congressman Paul Tonko. “We must ensure these facilities have the tools they need to thrive so that families dealing with a cancer diagnosis don’t lose access to this proven model of care delivery. By asking CMS to reevaluate this flawed proposal, we can ensure that community cancer clinics will be open for patients in need.” “On behalf of the Medical Oncology Association of Southern California Board of Directors, oncologists, and their patients throughout California, we applaud the efforts of Rep. Devin Nunes to prevent cuts to Medicare reimbursement in 2014 for cancer care services which, if implemented, would reduce access of cancer patients to reliable quality care,” stated Robert A. Moss, President of the Medical Oncology Association of Southern California. “I strongly support Congressman Nunes' efforts to prevent CMS's ongoing and future destructive cuts to cancer care,” said Jeffrey W. Cronk, President of the Association of Northern California Oncologists. “We have seen continued, increased costs for our patients with decreased reimbursement for care provided. This creates additional financial costs and emotional strain for our patients diagnosed with cancer. I endorse Congressman Nunes' lead to prevent these cuts.” Over the past six years, 288 community cancer treatment facilities have closed and more than 469 practices have merged into or affiliated with hospitals due to inadequate reimbursement rates. This has resulted in seniors with cancer losing access to cancer care close to home — particularly in rural areas. ###
09.01.2013	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) today released the following statement on the situation in Syria: “The apparent chemical weapons attack by the Assad regime is an appalling, unconscionable act by a bloodthirsty tyrant. The ‘limited’ military response supported by President Obama, however, shows no clear goal, tactical objective, or in fact any coherence whatsoever, and is supported neither by myself nor the American people. President Obama has gone from leading from behind, to not leading at all, to now hiding behind Congress. This is not a winning strategy.”
07.12.2013	At a luncheon hosted by Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central California today, Rep. Devin Nunes (Ca-22) introduced and presented an honorary Congressional resolution to Fresno’s Jack Wiegand, who recently became the youngest person to fly solo around the world. During the lunch event, the 21 year old shared photo slides from his trip, which lasted 59 days and covered 21,000 nautical miles across twelve countries. “This is an extraordinary young man who accomplished an amazing feat,” says Rep. Nunes. “I was honored to meet him and his family today.”
07.11.2013	In the House of Representatives today, Republican Devin Nunes (CA-22) and Democrat Ron Kind (WI-03) introduced the Charitable Agricultural Research Act (H.R. 2671), which would provide a tax exemption for agricultural research. Senators John Thune (R-SD) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) are introducing a companion bill in the Senate. In order to spur private-sector funding for research and innovation in agriculture, the legislation allows the creation of tax-exempt agricultural research organizations similar to existing medical research organizations. By boosting agricultural research, the bill would provide vital long-term assistance for struggling American farmers. “This bill will provide a crucial way for private charitable donors to support agricultural innovation,” said Rep. Nunes. “It adjusts the tax code to help farmers, who are facing a difficult regulatory environment and many other challenges.” The bill stipulates that agricultural research organizations would work in conjunction with agricultural and land-grant colleges and universities to conduct research in the field of agriculture, complimenting existing public and private research efforts. Additionally, the legislation creates opportunities for under-funded projects, such as those addressing specialty crops or specific diseases, to receive the necessary financing. The following organizations support the bill: Alliance of Western Milk Producers, American Farm Bureau Federation, American Sheep Industry Association, American Soybean Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization, California Apple Commission, California Association of Wheat Growers, California Blueberry Commission, California Cattlemen’s Association, California Citrus Mutual, California Cotton Ginners and Growers Association, California Dairies, Inc., California Farm Bureau Federation, California Grape and Tree Fruit League, California League of Food Processors, California Olive Association, Olive Growers Council of California, California Poultry Federation, California Rice Commission, California Women for Agriculture, California Wool Growers Association, National Association of Wheat Growers, National Chicken Council, National Coalition for Food and Agricultural Research, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Grain and Feed Association, National Milk Producers Federation, National Turkey Federation, United Egg Producers, US Apple Association, USA Rice Federation, Western Growers Association, Western United Dairymen, California State University, Fresno, California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo, Michigan State University, Oklahoma State University, Oregon State University, Texas A&M University, and University of California. For more information on this bill please visit / and /UploadedFiles/Charitable_Ag_Research_Act_2013.pdf, or contact Jack Langer at (202) 225-2523. ###
04.18.2013	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) announced today the introduction of the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act in the House of Representatives. Companion legislation will be introduced in the Senate in the coming days. First introduced by Rep. Nunes in December 2010, the House legislation requires enhanced transparency for state and local pension plans while prohibiting the federal government from bailing out those systems. The bill, whose principal authors also include Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1), Senator Richard Burr (NC), and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49), has been endorsed by a wide array of watchdog groups and other organizations, including Americans for Tax Reform, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, the American Conservative Union, the National Taxpayers Union, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Free Enterprise Nation, and the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Principal House author Devin Nunes offered the following statement: “Often hidden by opaque accounting practices, the costs of public pension funds are driving an increasing number of states and municipalities toward insolvency. This bill will increase the funds’ transparency and eliminate deceptive accounting practices that are already shunned in the private sector, giving the American people a clearer understanding of these funds’ true fiscal condition.” Principal Senate author Richard Burr: “For too long, taxpayers and government employees have been denied information about how badly government worker pension plans are underfunded. This bill would implement uniform standards for public-employee pension funds so that citizens can accurately judge the performance of state and local authorities in managing the public trust. This information is only for the purpose of disclosure; the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own plans is maintained. Additionally, the bill's clear prohibition of a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans empowers local authorities to make their own reforms by rejecting the illusory notion that problems can be ignored or hidden and later dumped on taxpayers.” Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan: “Taxpayers deserve an honest account from their state and local government of their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable by shining a light on these obligations, and I’m honored to join Representative Nunes in sponsoring this common-sense legislation.” Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa: “A lack of transparency creates an ideal environment for state and local officials to pander to both public employees and taxpayers with overly optimistic assessments of unfunded liabilities. Most won't be in office when the time comes to face the consequences of over-promising and underfunding benefits for decades. The key to addressing this problem is shining a light on the financial health of pension systems and making clear that federal taxpayers will not pick up the bill for reckless mismanagement in state and local government -- this legislation does both.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another 7 million retirees and their dependents are receiving benefits. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort the fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. Independent studies have estimated a total shortfall in public employee pensions of up to $4 trillion, with a recent study by Morningstar finding that twenty-one state pension systems are funded below fiscally sound levels. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that will provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for jurisdictions whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. ###
04.02.2013	Earlier today Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-22) presented Purple Heart and Prisoner of War medals to Mrs. D’Arcy-Clarke who accepted the awards on behalf of her deceased husband Master Sergeant Edmund D’Arcy-Clarke. Master Sergeant Edmund T. D’Arcy-Clarke has been posthumously awarded the Purple Heart and Prisoner of War Medal for his service in World War II. He served from 1942 to 1963 and retired at the rank of Master Sergeant. Following are remarks made by then Private D’Arcy-Clarke which were documented by the United States Army; “Toward the end of the European campaign the Germans found it necessary to move the American prisoners westward in order to comply with the Geneva Convention Rules the Germans chose to have us move by marching. Since we had been following the Russian drive as closely as possible we realized that if we were to escape we would not have to go far to go and join friendly forces, en route we observed the actions of the guards and when the opportunity presented itself we moved out under the cover of an early morning fog. We were picked up the next day by civilian authorities and placed in a small jail cell. At noon we persuaded someone to let us out and we were off again. On the sixth day after initial effort we discovered that the front line had passed and that our goal had been achieved. I was taken to a Russian Hospital and later sent to Moscow and later sent to Odessa. A British ship then took us to Naples, Italy.” -PVT Edmund D’Arcy-Clarke. 1946 Background Mrs. D’Arcy-Clarke had contacted Congressman Nunes following the death of her husband for assistance in obtaining his military records. During the inquiry, it was noted that Master Sergeant D’Arcy-Clarke was wounded at the time of his capture in 1943 and that his status as a POW had not been noted at the time of his retirement. As a result of the inquiry, Congressman Nunes received the orders and certificate for Edmund D’Arcy-Clarke’s Purple Heart. It was also determined that the Master Sergeant was entitled to the Prisoner of War Medal for his period of captivity. Ceremony Information Consistent with tradition and Army regulation, awards and decorations should be presented with an appropriate degree of formality in a fitting ceremony. That ceremony was conducted by Congressman Nunes at the Clovis Veteran’s Memorial Building at 808 4th St, Clovis.
03.06.2013	Statement by Rep. Devin Nunes- "Ealier today I was notified that the Obama Administration has cancelled all White House tours effective Saturday, March 9, 2013, until further notice. Administration officials attribute the decision to sequestration, an idea that originated in the White House. The White House is the only tour that has been affected by sequestration. Though its operating budget was also cut by sequestration, Congress will continue its tours of the Capitol as usual. If you have requested any tour through my office besides the White House tour, please follow the instructions in your confirmation packet. My staff will keep you updated with any new information from the White House. I apologize for relaying this disappointing news, especially during our busy spring touring season." ###
05.17.2012	“We need to protect these jobs, which is why the House acted so quickly three weeks ago. While I have strong reservations about the Senate changes, I have been given firm assurances that the altered bill solves the problems faced by the backcountry horsemen. For this reason, I am working tonight to get the altered bill considered in the House as soon as possible.” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Nunes is the author of H.R. 4849, the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks Backcountry Access Act. The original bill passed the House on April 27, 2012. Click here for more information. The House is expected to take up the amended legislation under a unanimous consent agreement on Friday, May 18, 2012. The bill will pass and be sent to the President if none of the Members object.
05.15.2012	Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Tulare) announced the winners of the 2012 Congressional Art Competition today. “An Artistic Discovery,” an annual national art competition, includes the work of one participant from each Congressional District (photographs and program info here). First Place: Kolbe Brennan, of Clovis, with an oil painting entitled “Elder.” Kolbe is a student at Buchanan High School. First Runner-up: Maycha Vang, of Fresno, with a color pen and ink piece entitled “Party Poison.” Maycha is a student at Clovis East High School. Second Runner-up: Whitney Howe, of Clovis, with a color pen and ink piece entitled “Reflections.” Whitney is a student at Clovis East High School. “This competition helps to highlight and encourage the artistic talent of young people in our community. We have a lot of students competing every year, and it never ceases to impress me how creative and talented these young men and women are. Kolbe’s artwork faced tough competition but he certainly deserves this honor and I look forward to seeing his work in the Capitol,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “All of our program participants, including the artists, their families, teachers and supporters, deserve high praise. Without proper recognition and your encouragement, I think it is safe to say that these artists would not be where they are today,” said Nunes. As the first place winner, Kolbe will have his artwork displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year. He will also receive round-trip airfare to Washington, DC courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Kolbe and his guests will be invited to a national reception honoring artists from around the United States. First runner-up Maycha Vang’s artwork will be displayed in Congressman Nunes’ Washington DC office for one year and Whitney Howe’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Nunes’ Visalia office.
04.27.2012	Congressmen Devin Nunes (CA-21), Kevin McCarthy (CA-22), Tom McClintock (CA-04) and Jeff Denham (CA-19) today announced that the House has passed a bill that would restore access to the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks for backcountry horsemen. (bill text) Commercial permits necessary for the operation of the region’s pack stations have been suspended due to a lawsuit by a radical environmental group, the High Sierra Hikers Association, which opposes horse and mule access to the parks. The Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks Backcountry Access Act will require the Parks Service to issue commercial permits for the next two years while changes are made to the permitting process to comply with a federal court ruling. “I was highly disappointed by the Park Service’s refusal to work with the federal court on an agreement to issue permits in time for the current season. Officials opted to wait until a new process was established and approved by the court instead of seeking an interim solution,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “This legislation will allow commercial pack operations to continue in the parks while changes are made to the permitting process to comply with the court’s decision. It is now up to California’s Senators to quickly act on the bill. There are hundreds of jobs at stake.” “This Administration’s refusal to work towards a solution on this issue is the latest example of this Administration’s war on Western jobs. I commend the House for taking swift action today on legislation I cosponsored to help preserve hundreds of jobs in the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. Passage of this bill will ensure that the public can continue to access and enjoy public lands and national treasures. I call on the Senate to take this bill up immediately and join House Republicans in working to save jobs in our local communities and preserve access to public lands," said Rep. Kevin McCarthy. “At a time when unemployment in California remains well above the national average, we are working to keep hundreds of hard-working families in business while adjustments are being made to comply with new wilderness requirements. It’s imperative that we take swift action to protect the jobs of our backcountry horsemen and preserve access to our public lands,” said Rep. Jeff Denham. The Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks Backcountry Access Act was introduced by Congressman Nunes last evening. Chairman Hastings and the bi-partisan House leadership agreed that the temporary measure was worthy of special treatment and swift action. It was expedited through a unanimous consent agreement for consideration by the full House in less than 24 hours and is currently being transmitted to the Senate.
04.05.2012	Members of Congress call for quick action by the Obama Administration to save jobs and halt activist judge and former partner at Morrison & Foerster (www.mofo.com) Congressmen Devin Nunes and Jeff Denham, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy and Chairman Rob Bishop, Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, today called on the Obama Administration to act to protect the jobs of backcountry horsemen who are being threatened by a liberal activist judge and a National Park Service decision to delay permits for commercial operators. “There are approximately 500 jobs hanging in the balance. The Obama Administration must act swiftly to seek permission from the courts to issue a one year permit to save these small businesses,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “I am working with Chairman Bishop and the House Natural Resources Committee in an effort to convince them to do just that.” A recent federal court decision has resulted in alterations to the permitting process necessary for pack and saddle backcountry horsemen to enter the Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. If commercial operating permits are not granted, backcountry operations will be suspended. Many of these family businesses cannot survive an economic blow of this magnitude. According to the Park Service, Judge Richard Seeborg denied a request to expedite a hearing on issuing permits. “The Obama Administration must issue these permits immediately. Issuing the permits would prevent the cancellation of tourism associated with the pack and saddle companies, and the subsequent revenue upon which so many jobs and businesses in this area rely,” said Chairman Bishop. “Congress clearly intended for these family owned and operated companies to continue at these parks as they have for decades. This is another example of this Administration’s ongoing assault on access to public lands and further illustrates that they will always place radical special interest groups before hard-working Americans.” “At a time of unacceptably high unemployment rates, refusing to act to save these jobs and preserve access to our public lands is intolerable. I will continue to fight against the Obama Administration's war on western jobs, and instead work for commonsense policies that help create jobs and preserve important access to our national treasures,” said Majority Whip McCarthy. It is within the Obama Administration’s power to once again seek permission for a one year permit for commercial backcountry horsemen operations. “Preventing access to federal lands harms small, rural communities that rely on tourism to bring dollars in to the community,” said Rep. Jeff Denham. “There has been a concerted effort by this Administration to limit access to public lands without due consideration to the impacts on local communities. Federal lands are publicly owned and should be managed in the best interest of the public, not to their detriment.” “I don’t agree with the ruling by the newly appointed liberal activist judge. Federal law is clear. Congress intended that backcountry horsemen have access to the park,” said Rep. Nunes. “The ruling in itself is not an excuse to shut down an entire season of commercial operations. It defies common sense that officials have so far refused to actively protect jobs.” This lawsuit, filed in late 2009 by the High Sierra Hikers Association, was bankrolled by Morrison & Foerster a politically connected San Francisco law firm. Judge Richard Seeborg, who presided over the case, is a former partner at Morrison & Foerster. The law firm, better known as “MoFo” as chided by Jay Leno (see video), has contributed more than $100,000 in campaign contributions to liberal Democrat Members of Congress and Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. Law firms such as “MoFo” claim to do this type of legal work “pro bono”. In this case, “MoFo” who is reported to have a record $930 million in revenue last year, will see a big payday from the federal government as a result of the Equal Access to Justice Act. This law stipulates that attorney’s fees be reimbursed by the taxpayers in successful cases. “The conflict of interest in this case is appalling. At a minimum the judge should have recused himself,” said Rep. Nunes.
03.06.2012	On Tuesday, March 6, 2012 the United States Trade Representative Ron Kirk announced USTR’s decision to request a formal consultation with India regarding poultry imports from the United States. The announcement follows a bipartisan request headed by Congressmen Devin Nunes (R-CA) and John Carney (D-DE) urging Representative Kirk to make poultry trade with India a top priority. The letter was signed by 46 Representatives (see letter here). “I am hopeful the formal consultation process will yield results and appreciate the USTR’s commitment to opening the Indian market to U.S. poultry. The Indian government’s position is inconsistent with its commitment to the World Trade Organization and must be remedied,” said Rep. Nunes. Currently, India denies access to U.S. poultry citing avian influenza (AI) concerns. However, no distinction is made between low-pathogenic and high-pathogenic AI. The failure to recognize the difference between high-pathogenic and low-pathogenic AI is inconsistent with World Health Organization for Animal Heath (OIE) guidelines and, in the view of Congressman Nunes and other Congressional Representatives in Washington, is a violation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (SPS). The United States is one of the few countries in the world where a comprehensive and rigorous program to prevent, control, and eradicate AI in poultry and prevent the spread to the human population is in-place. Background: Since 2007 India has denied access to U.S. poultry into Indian markets, of which would provide significant opportunities to poultry processors. The United States track record on AI is unsurpassed. Industry analysts estimate that U.S. Poultry exports to India could exceed $300 million annually, if appropriate market access was provided in accordance with India’s obligations as a member of the WTO. ###
02.29.2012	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes announced House passage of H.R. 1837, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. “Today’s vote is an enormous victory for the people of California. With House passage, we are halfway through the legislative process and now can look to the Senate for their response. Will our Senators help restore our property rights and end the death grip of radicals over California’s water supply or will we have to look to others in the Senate to lead the charge?” said Rep. Devin Nunes. More information, including a list of hundreds of organizations and businesses supporting H.R. 1837, can be found at www.nunes.house.gov/water Video from the debate can be viewed here. Remarks of Congressman Devin Nunes H.R. 1837 Floor Debate (as prepared) “After 20 years under CVPIA, Congress can conclude one thing: flushing fresh water into the San Francisco Bay is not helping to recover species and people are suffering needlessly. We are going to hear a lot from the opponents of this bill about science and I want to start right off and make one thing clear. We are supporting sound science with H.R. 1837 and we are rejecting the junk-science that has long been foisted on the people of California – junk science that the federal court has labeled the unlawful work of zealots. I think it is important for me to impress upon the House that opponents of H.R. 1837 do not possess scientific high ground as they are all but certain to allege. Their experts and the activists masquerading as experts who support them have been biased from the beginning and have molded their work to produce the findings that best suit their radical agenda. We can say with certainty that this agenda has not improved the fish populations. If that were true, we wouldn’t be here today. The U.S. District Court has thrown out the biological decisions used to justify the horrible regulations that cut off the water supply to families through California. The court’s decision was a shocking indictment of the kind of government operating in America today when it comes to our environmental laws. The U.S. District Court judge said “I’ve never seen anything like it.” He went on to say that government scientists acted like zealots and had attempted to mislead and to deceive the Court into accepting junk science. These are powerful statements by a federal court and should give anyone who believes in due process, open government and justice cause for concern. Yet the band marched on without missing a beat and instead of disciplining these scientists the Fish and Wildlife Service gave them awards for outstanding performance under intense pressure. The arrogant disregard for the public trust didn’t stop there. President Obama’s VETO threat doubles-down on this dishonest smear campaign - accusing House Republicans of doing just the sort of thing his Administration has been found guilty of. Mr. Speaker, we are not ignoring the latest science in favor of special interests. We are not the people who are sending zealots into the federal court to lie in defense of junk science. We are not the people who are rigging regulations to favor a small minority of left-wing interest groups. The agenda driven junk science governing the Bay-Delta is indefensible and again, as the federal court said, dishonest. Congress needs to ask, “Who are these people?” The answers will disturb you. Dr. Peter Gleick, for example, helped make the case for drying up California farmland and rural communities – including in testimony before Congress. Peter Gleick is an activist-scientist who just a few weeks ago admitted to impersonating one of his critics and stealing information from a non-profit. He then mingled that stolen information with a faked memo in an effort to discredit his intellectual critics. Radicals like Peter Gleick lie and they make it their mission to destroy scientists who don’t agree with their twisted anti-human views. Meanwhile, they are used by some in this House as an excuse to take people’s water away, to dry up farmland, and to justify human suffering. People in our nation’s bread basket are standing in food lines to get carrots from China. And their sacrifices have meant nothing to the environment. We need to do better. We need to vote yes on the Rule and yes on HR 1837.”
02.28.2012	National and Local Organizations Support Republican Plan to Stop Man-Made California Drought Organizations from across the country are calling for passage of H.R. 1837, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, legislation to prevent future California man-made droughts. This comprehensive solution will bring water supply certainty to the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys, protect 30,000 jobs, generate millions in federal revenue, and decrease reliance on foreign food sources. What They’re Saying: National Taxpayers Union "California water policy has always been an extremely complex process involving numerous, often competing, interests. The Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act would strike an elegant and sensible balance among many concerns, including property rights, environmental sustainability, and economic development, all in a way that benefits citizens as well as governments at many levels." Americans for Tax Reform “Restoring long held water rights, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act is necessary to return thousands of jobs to California’s San-Joaquin Valley. This once vibrant region is stymied by an obtrusive government that is preventing local farmers from acquiring water needed to grow crops and produce. Given the number of Americans searching for work, [H.R. 1837] is commonsense measure that can’t be signed into law fast enough.” Citizens Against Government Waste “It is reprehensible that the federal government would put the needs of fish before the livelihoods of Americans and the wallets of taxpayers. [CAGW]strongly urges support [for] the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act.” Americans for Limited Government “[HR 1837] would bring relief to farmers in the Central Valley and those to the north in the Sacramento Valley. Going back to the many issues that plague California, this bill is a welcomed change. It costs nothing, yet restores the rights of citizens, raises federal revenues and puts thousands of people back to work.” “It’s hard to believe that a government would be willing to withhold water from its citizens in an attempt to protect a fish. You might see this behavior from a corrupt dictator in another country, but it should never happen in America.” U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Water is the most essential element to life on earth and an economic driver for strengthening our economy and keeping our communities vibrant and healthy.” “HR 1837 would restore water deliveries to communities by codifying the historic, bipartisan “Bay-Delta Accord,” a water agreement entered into by the State of Cali­fornia, the Federal government, water agencies, and environ­mental organizations.” Supima Cotton “We believe [HR 1837] offers a solution that would restore water deliveries that have been cut-off due to federal regulations and environmental lawsuits, ensure a reliable water supply for people and fish, protect and secure water rights and save taxpayers money…” Western Plant Health Association “WPHA believes it is critical that water reliability be restored to the San Joaquin Valley before water availability returns to crisis levels. This bill is an important step in creating balance between agricultural needs, urban water demands, and environmental protection.” National Chicken Council “At a critical time like now when full production of all crops across the United States is necessary to hold-down food inflation, expand exports, and re-employ workers, it is not acceptable to have arbitrary and unnecessary government restrictions on the appropriate and prudent use of cropland in the Valley. The National Chicken Council stands with our counterparts in supporting passage of HR 1837, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act.” Madera County Board of Supervisors “HR 1837 adequately addresses the Central Valley’s water concerns by addressing the need for a reliable water supply for both urban and agricultural users while working towards restoring balance, flexibility and consistency to operations of the Central Valley Project and California Water Project.” Kern County Water Agency “[HR 1837] is an ambitious effort to address those issues by improving the almost 10-year old Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA), improving the Endangered Species Act standards in the Delta, simplifying the tangled implementation issues surrounding the San Joaquin River Settlement Agreement (Settlement Agreement), and improving fiscal and contract management of the Central Valley Project (CVP).” Apricot Producers of California “Because apricot production is located on the Westside of the San Joaquin Valley, a reliable, stable water source such as HR 1837 provides is absolutely necessary of the continued production of apricots in California.” “This was an agreement that guaranteed water to all, while doing it in a manner that was agreeable to restoring the ecosystem while improving the water supply.” California Cattlemen’s Association “Creating a balance between environmental and agricultural needs is a goal that we believe HR 1837 achieves well.” “By allowing water districts to maximize their conjunctive use of ground and surface water, this bill will help farmers and ranchers ensure that they will be able to survive dry seasons without incurring large operational costs.” California Cotton Ginners and Growers Associations “We believe this bill offers that comprehensive solution that would restore water delivers that have been cut-off due to federal regulations and environmental lawsuits, ensure a reliable water supply for people and fish, protect and secure water rights and save tax payer money by ending unnecessary and dubious government projects that accomplish little if any benefits.” California Poultry Federation “When this legislation passes, it would restore the flow of water to communities in the world’s most productive and progressive agricultural region, creating more than 25,000 jobs and much more water each year.” “It would save taxpayers $1 billion and reaffirm a water accord supported by both political parties.” California Water Alliance “The Act is the critical first step in achieving balance among the urban, rural, and environmental demand on California’s Central Valley Project and State Water Pro ject. The Act improves the federal government’s approach to solving the ongoing water crisis and the state and federal policies that have led to recent economic and human devastation.” Families Protecting the Valley “Like all other legislation to come out of Congress, it still has to get through the Senate. We know that’s an iffy proposition, but because this act is based on the 1994 Bay Delta Accord that was highly praised and supported by U.S. Senator Diane Feinstein, Congressman George Miller, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbit and Governor Pete Wilson, we feel it has to be taken seriously and given a chance.” Family Farm Alliance “Opponents of the legislation ignore that under the provisions of HR 1837, the Central Valley Project would annually manage more than 1.5 million acre-feed for fish and wildlife restoration and enhancement, and the California State Water Project would annually contribute 500 thousand acre-feed toward these purposes.” “HR 1837 would require that federal and state fishery agencies more efficiently manage water supplied dedicated to fish and wildlife restoration and enhancement holding environmental uses of water to the same standard currently applied to farms throughout the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys.” Greater Fresno Area Chamber of Commerce “This bill is a critical step in solving California’s water crisis while attempting to achieve balance between urban, rural, and environmental demands on the Central Valley Project and State Water Project.” Fresno County Farm Bureau “California farmers are at the forefront of efficiently utilizing their water supplies to produce a bounty of agricultural products desire around the world…..The provisions of HR 1837 reflect a commitment to protecting water rights and to building a more reliable water supply for the state and agriculture.” Madera County Farm Bureau “This is an incentive with an end result that benefits all water users, and is beneficial for the environment.” “We have long been aware that we do not have a water supply problem in California. What is occurring today is a water delivery problem. HR 1837 will aid in addressing deliver constraints.” “Many factors, including timing of the Delta Smelt legal ruling, contributed to a San Joaquin River Settlement that is inherently flawed, economically infeasible, and ineffective at addressing the multiple challenges in the CVPIA service area as a whole.” Kings County Farm Bureau “The Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act promotes water policies that facilitate the delivery of California’s abundant supply of water, as well as support the implementation of an economically feasible and environmentally sustainable river restoration on the San Joaquin River.” Almond Hullers and Processors Association “Members of AHPA represent over 90% of the California Almond industry based on tonnage…. We appreciate all efforts made to protect the San Joaquin Valley water supply as it’s vital to the wellbeing of our industry and our state.” Fresno Board of Supervisors “It (is) with tremendous pride that Fresno County is the number one agricultural county in the nation with a value of more than $5.9 billion in 2010. We feed and clothe the world but we cannot continue to produce without a more reliable water supply for California and agriculture. HR 1837 is critical in achieving a balance between urban, rural and environmental demands.” Merced County Farm Bureau “Water is the lifeblood of farming and ranching in Merced County and without a sustainable supply, fertile land will go fallow, less production will occur and even more jobs will be lost." Northern California Water Association “The bill also now unequivocally and expressly states that the federal government will not attempt to solve environmental challenges in the California Bay Delta (Delta) at the expense of those within the Sacramento River watershed and other areas upstream of the Delta.” San Joaquin Tributary Association “At a time when one in eight Americans does not have enough food, this legislation is of critical importance.” More on H.R. 1837 at /water.
02.14.2012	Representative Devin Nunes (CA-21) today announced that the House Natural Resources Committee has scheduled a markup for H.R. 1837, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. The markup will occur on Thursday, February 16, 2012. Consideration by the full House is expected in the coming weeks. "I am pleased that after four years of inaction by Democratic super-majorities in Congress, we are now – under Republican leadership - able to move forward with a solution to California’s government-imposed drought,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. "This legislation is a comprehensive regional solution to water shortages that have been caused by failed government policies, not actual shortages of water. We have crafted a good bill that not only restores the flow of water but will ultimately make unnecessary the construction of a $12 billion canal to bypass the Bay-Delta.” The Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act ends policies that have failed for 20 years, restores water rights, cuts costs, and paves the way for measurable environmental improvements. Water Recovery The Act restores water deliveries that were cut off by environmental lawsuits and overreaching federal regulation. The Act recovers the lost water that was dedicated to a failed $1 billion salmon restoration plan. A Reliable Water Supply The Act ensures water reliability by restoring long-term water contracts that were curtailed by radical environmentalists. The Act ensure a stable water supply by mandating compliance with the water accord agreed to by the State of California, the federal government, water agencies, and environmental organizations. The Act streamlines environmental regulatory processes to speed up water reliability projects and transfers. The Act expands the use of the Central Valley Project to allow water deliveries by non-federal sources. The Act ends the bizarre effort to protect non-native species and focuses efforts on native species thereby ensuring environmental water is used for a beneficial purpose. Cutting Costs The Act addresses the budget realities faced by all levels of government and terminates the ostentatious and misguided $1 billion salmon restoration program. It also nullifies the need to construct of a canal to bypass the Bay-Delta, savings $12 billion. The Act reduces the debt by $300 million by incentivizing early pay-off of the Central Valley Project federal loan. The Act establishes transparency and accountability measures to protect taxpayers from frivolous spending on failed environmental projects. Secures Private Property Rights The Act protects and secures all water rights that are senior to federal water rights. The Act settles a long standing dispute over area-of-origin water rights. For more information visit www.nunes.house.gov/water
12.20.2011	Rep. Devin Nunes released the following statement regarding the vote today in the House of Representatives to extend the payroll tax cut: "The President demanded a one-year extension to the payroll tax cut and the House of Representatives agreed by passing a one-year extension. The Senate disregarded prudent policy by passing a mere 60-day extension and ran home for Christmas. This is unacceptable and creates economic uncertainty for working families and businesses. The Senate needs to return to Washington and join Republicans at the negotiating table to hammer out a long-term package. We have eleven days remaining to do what is right for the country."
12.15.2011	Today Congressman Devin Nunes testified before the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which held an important oversight hearing on the skyrocketing cost of California high-speed rail. “The House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure gave opponents of California high-speed rail a unique opportunity to tell members why they oppose this growingly unpopular project,” said Congressman Nunes. “We need to look for better options to high- speed rail, such as freight rail and other transportation projects that are more beneficial to California and don’t bankrupt our state. Chairman Mica should be praised for showing considerable leadership in holding this hearing.” “The Administration’s so-called high-speed rail program continues to take us in the wrong direction, as the continued implosion of the California project continues to demonstrate. Congressman Nunes clearly highlighted Californians’ growing frustration with this project today, and I appreciate his participation in this informative hearing,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John L. Mica. You can watch Congressman Nunes’ testimony here.
11.30.2011	Congressman Nunes today released the following statement following the White House announcement that the San Joaquin River restoration would be one of President Obama’s top 14 infrastructure projects. “This announcement is astounding. The President claims to be for creating jobs but unless you are a career activist in the radical environmental movement, you are simply out of luck. With California in such dire economic straits and with the federal debt piled higher than at any point in our nation’s history, it is both irresponsible and unfathomable that the President has chosen such a wasteful and ill-conceived project as a national priority. House Republicans have voted twice to defund this boondoggle because we believe that creating jobs is more important than environmental extremism. Meanwhile, today’s announcement gives residents of the San Joaquin Valley irrefutable proof that President Obama does not regard their jobs and economic prosperity as a national priority,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. For more information, see Congressman Nunes blog here. ###
11.01.2011	"The business plan released today should convince even the most loyal high speed rail advocate to re-examine the project. For years, government watchdogs – including the state’s own auditor – have warned of the pervasive mismanagement and deceptive assumptions used by the High Speed Rail Authority. Now we are provided a business plan that pegs the cost of completing the bullet train at $98 billion. It simply isn’t going to happen – not unless the Authority can convince the Chinese government to underwrite the balance of the cost. As I have said before, this is a financially irresponsible and reckless program and it should be terminated. I will oppose any further federal participation and hope the leaders of California will come to their senses.” Rep. Devin Nunes.
09.30.2011	Today, Rep. Devin Nunes announced the launch of a new mobile device application for Apple OS powered smart phones. The app, simply called the Devin Nunes App, will also be released for Android devices in the coming weeks. “The purpose of this project is to offer my constituents high value information in a timely manner and to make it easier for them to share information,” said Rep. Nunes. “For a long time, elected leaders had to rely on third parties to publicize their work. The news cycle drove a lot of public debate. Today, I think that relationship has been transformed. With modern technology, elected leaders can communicate directly with the people and the people can and do drive the debate themselves. The Tea Party is an example of this but they aren’t alone. My new app makes my record more accessible and will help inform the public debate.” The Devin Nunes App is available in the iTunes App Store today. It is compatible with iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices. The app will be released in the Android Market in the coming weeks. The Devin Nunes App features: The Nunes Daily – read Congressman Nunes’ daily news clips, featuring content covering the San Joaquin Valley, California, and the world. The Nunes Wire – view the latest statements, press release, blogs and publications produced by Congressman Nunes. Video Library – check out video featuring Congressman Nunes including coverage of official Congressional proceedings, Nunes events, and other original content. Interact – share content with friends using Facebook, twitter and other online services. Contact – share your views with Congressman Nunes. Congressman Nunes is the first California Representative to commission mobile device applications for both the Apple and Android device platforms. Together, they represent 68% of the smart phone market in the United States.
09.16.2011	Representatives Devin Nunes (CA-21), Ron Kind (WI-03), Tom Cole (OK-03), Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), and Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI) and John Thune (SD) today announced the bi-cameral introduction of legislation that will provide a tax exemption for agricultural research. The legislation introduced today seeks to spur the research and innovation necessary to double food production by 2050 when the global population is estimated to exceed 9 billion. In addition, it will help American farmers to survive in an increasingly regulated environment, which impacts agricultural emissions as well as the use of pesticides and fertilizers. “The Charitable Agricultural Research Act will help not only create more opportunity for innovation in the short–term but will assure that public private partnerships are able to raise the money needed to respond to the constantly changing threats to agricultural production,” said Rep. Nunes. “We need these investments now more than ever and our nation’s tax laws should reflect that.” “Expanding agricultural research is critical to helping the industry meet the demands of a 21st century global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill provides an incentive for donations to ag research, creating an important new funding source and providing significant future benefits to innovation, production, and success in agriculture.” To encourage private donations, the Charitable Agricultural Research Act would authorize the creation of a new type of charitable, tax-exempt organization to allow private monies to fund agricultural research. Each ‘agricultural research organization’ would work in conjunction with agricultural and land-grant colleges and universities to conduct research in the field of agriculture, complimenting existing public and private research. The following organizations support the bill: Alliance of Western Milk Producers, American Farm Bureau Federation, American Sheep Industry Association, American Soybean Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization, California Apple Commission, California Association of Wheat Growers, California Blueberry Commission, California Cattlemen’s Association, California Citrus Mutual, California Cotton Ginners and Growers Association, California Dairies, Inc., California Farm Bureau Federation, California Grape and Tree Fruit League, California League of Food Processors, California Olive Association, Olive Growers Council of California, California Poultry Federation, California Rice Commission, California Women for Agriculture, California Wool Growers Association, National Association of Wheat Growers, National Chicken Council, National Coalition for Food and Agricultural Research, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Grain and Feed Association, National Milk Producers Federation, National Turkey Federation, United Egg Producers, US Apple Association, USA Rice Federation, Western Growers Association, Western United Dairymen, California State University, Fresno, California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo, Michigan State University, Oklahoma State University, Oregon State University, Texas A&M University, University of California.
08.01.2011	Tonight, I voted against the Budget Control Act. It leaves real cuts in federal spending to another day. We don't need congressional super committees and triggers to do the heavy lifting for which Members of Congress were elected.
07.29.2011	Today, Rep. Devin Nunes introduced the Agriculture Trade Facilitation Act, a bill intended to improve the outcome of trade negotiations for American farmers by establishing the overall and principal negotiating objectives of the United States. "American farmers produce the highest quality dairy products, fruits, vegetables, grains and fibers in the world. In my district alone, famers grow hundreds of different crops – many of which are exported. These foreign exports are essential to the health of rural America which is why free trade agreements are so important. However, we must remain diligent to protect our nation’s capacity to grow abundant food and fiber. This demands an enhanced recognition that for agriculture, removing tariffs is not enough. We need to make certain that non-tariff barriers, such as scientifically dubious sanitary and phytosanitary standards, don’t block wholesome American products from competing in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Access to foreign markets is critical to American farmers, ranchers, and producers. According to the United States Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service (ERS), each $1 billion in U.S. agricultural exports supports approximately 8,400 jobs. From 2008-2010, the value of U.S. agricultural products averaged nearly $107 billion annually. Compared to 1998-2000, when the total value of agricultural exports averaged $51 billion annually, U.S. agricultural exports have more than doubled. However, there are continued reports that non science-based sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) measures are restricting and acting as non-tariff barriers to trade. SPS measures are those designed “to protect human, animal or plant life or health” from risks arising from additives, contaminants, pests, toxins, diseases, or disease-carrying and causing organisms in foods, beverages, feedstuffs, animals or plants. SPS measures can take such forms as specific product or processing standards, requirements for products to be produced in disease-free areas, quarantine regulations, certification or inspection procedures, sampling and testing requirements, health-related labeling measures, maximum permissible pesticide residue levels, and prohibitions on certain food additives. Under the World Trade Organization’s Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, SPS measures must be science-based and applied only to the extent necessary and cannot be arbitrary or used to unjustifiably discriminate domestically or against trading partners. The improper use of measures can create substantial, if not complete, barriers to U.S. exports when they are disguised barriers to trade, are not supported by science, or are otherwise unwarranted. In fact, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) continues to assert that SPS “trade barriers prevent U.S. producers from shipping hundreds of millions of dollars worth of goods, hurting farms and small businesses.” The elimination and reduction of unwarranted SPS barriers to trade will increase U.S. agricultural exports and jobs. Moreover, the improper use of SPS barriers can be reduced through achieving and implementing agreements that provide for enhanced harmonization, transparency, equivalency, improved regulatory practices, and more efficient and effective dispute settlement. “SPS measures are increasingly being used as protectionist tools, nullifying the impact of tariff reductions and blocking market access to American farmers. One very recent and notable example is with poultry exports to Russia. Another relates to India’s ongoing ban on U.S. dairy imports. The situation will only get worse as tariffs are further reduced.” “The ongoing Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations, which are promising to deliver a 21st Century Free Trade Agreement, present an opportunity for us to make significant progress in improving the international SPS regime. It is absolutely imperative the United States work to secure the best possible SPS provisions,” said Rep. Nunes. Current supporters of the Agriculture Trade Facilitation Act include: National Cotton Council (NCC), American Sheep Industry Association (ASI), California Citrus Mutual (CCM), National Chicken Council (NCC), California Poultry Federation, California Grape and Tree Fruit League, California Farm Bureau, National Milk Producers Federation, and U.S Dairy Export Council.
07.25.2011	Representatives Devin Nunes (CA-21), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Pat Meehan (PA-07), William Pascrell (NJ-08), Jim Gerlach (PA-06), Jason Altmire (PA-04), Rep. Charlie Dent (PA-15), and Chaka Fattah (PA-02) today introduced the Life Sciences Jobs and Investment Act. The bill, which was introduced in the Senate by Robert Casey Jr. (PA), promotes investments in the life sciences by providing targeted and temporary tax relief for businesses willing to grow their American workforce. “Life sciences are a key component of our economy. They support improved life-spans and a superior quality of life. We need to ensure America continues to lead in these important fields. One way to accomplish this is to reduce taxes on foreign earnings if those earnings are re-invested here in the United States,” said Rep. Nunes. “Targeted investments in life sciences are vital to our economy. In Philadelphia alone, life sciences is responsible for one out of every six jobs and generates 15 percent of all economic activity,” Rep. Schwartz said. “This legislation will enhance medical innovation, life sciences education and high quality job creation across the country through targeted tax incentives. It promotes the type of opportunity businesses need to create private sector economic growth. Providing business with these tax incentives will ensure America remains on the cutting edge of research and development.” “This bipartisan legislation will encourage significant investment in the life sciences industry – an industry that is so important to our local economy and to creating high quality jobs in our region,” said Congressman Meehan. “Incentivizing life sciences research and development will not only bolster our regional economic growth, it will also keep the U.S. at the forefront of our competitive global economy.” “Investing in life sciences is smart economic policy,” Rep. Altmire said. “By investing in research and development in the United States, we are creating good paying jobs and keeping America at the forefront of scientific research. Tax cuts in these targeted areas will allow scientists and researchers to make investments in the work and hire more employees, just what this economy needs to get moving again.” “Research and development in life sciences is vital to our economic recovery," said Rep. Pascrell." Encouraging life science research and development will allow our nation to harness the vast resources of our highly-educated workers and develop the next generation of medicine and pharmaceutical technology that will be exported to the world. This is a $29 billion industry in New Jersey. Creating national policy to foster this industry’s growth across the nation will help encourage the billions of dollars in new jobs and construction projects that we expect will be generated by the search for better pharmaceuticals.” American preeminence in the life sciences industry is threatened by the erosion of investment capital, the departure of highly educated workers, and intense global competition. Many of our competitors, including China and India, are aggressively expanding academic training and research capacity. Meanwhile, that capacity is shrinking in the United States. The Life Sciences Jobs and Investment Act encourages investment in the United States by reducing the tax burden on the mostly small and medium sized companies responsible for life science research today. Investing in Life Sciences in the United States means: Hiring additional scientists, researchers, and comparable personnel engaged in life sciences research; Making new investments in research at American universities and post-graduate institutions, state-sponsored incubators, and comparable scientific organizations; and Investing in new laboratory and related life sciences research facilities. To accomplish these goals, the Life Sciences Jobs and Investment Act would allow companies engaged in life sciences research to either double their Research and Development tax credit on the first $150 million invested or repatriate foreign earnings at a reduced tax rate up to that same limit when used exclusively for job creation and research in the United States.
07.20.2011	Congressman Nunes issued the following statement on passage of the Cut, Cap and Balance Act: "The Cut, Cap and Balance Act is not a perfect bill but it is certainly one that under any other circumstance would have garnered the unanimous support of conservatives across America. It contains a spending cap that would inoculate us against spending excess, while forcing budget reforms to ensure the federal government lives within its means. Leading up to the debate, I joined critics who desired more immediate spending reforms, including to our nation’s entitlements, and sought to have those reforms included. However, I ultimately sided with 233 of my Republican colleagues in supporting Cut, Cap and Balance recognizing the debate is not over. The bill will be considered in the Senate on Saturday."
06.03.2011	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on H.R. 909, A Roadmap for America’s Energy Future (video of the hearing is available here). The Nunes authored energy plan is supported by 72 House Republicans and is the only comprehensive zero cost energy bill before Congress. It aims to immediately place downward pressure on energy prices while establishing the framework necessary for long-term energy independence. “Congress needs to act in a bold way. The average retail price of gasoline during the hearing today was $3.79 per gallon, with several states well over $4.00. Americans need leadership and I am confident that A Roadmap for America’s Energy Future provides that leadership,” said Rep. Nunes. Several key features of the Energy Roadmap tie additional fossil fuel production with the development of renewable energy alternatives. In addition, the establishment of a renewable energy reverse auction adds a competitive twist that will spur greater innovation, sustainability and long-term affordability. “I appreciate Subcommittee Chairman Whitfield and his committee’s willingness to examine the Energy Roadmap. The bill reflects the need to address the realities confronting American families today, including the need for more oil and gas. But it also tackles our long term need to deploy affordable alternatives,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “I also appreciate the fact that Ranking Member Waxman is willing to examine the reverse auction mechanism outlined in the bill which I believe will deliver better results than existing subsidies and credits.” The Nunes legislation leverages the abundant natural resources available throughout the United States today, including the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to achieve a greatly enhanced domestic supply of oil and gas. Based on data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA), the U.S. Geological Survey, Office of Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale and the Potential Gas Committee (a consortium of industry, academic, and government experts), this would provide enough energy to – supply the United States with natural gas for 88 years (proven reserves of wet natural gas total 283.9 trillion cubic feet with future supplies likely to be 2,074 trillion cubic feet with shale gas) supply the United States with oil for 29 years with no imports (proven oil reserves are 22.3 billion barrels with approximately 1.38 trillion barrels of additional oil available from shale) supply electricity to power America for nearly 250 years (proven reserves of coal are 486 billion short tons) Allowing Americans to use these resources will immediately reduce energy prices. At the same time, by dedicating all federal resources associated with new oil and gas development, the bill will make historic investments in renewable energy. The Energy Roadmap also proposes the sighting of 200 nuclear reactors by 2040, which will allow the production of 80% of our nation’s electrical energy using this zero emission technology. Since nuclear energy operates efficiently and continuously, it will be possible to expand America’s use of electric cars and other fossil fuel alternatives that demand greater base-load power. Today, nuclear reactors represent 8.3 percent of our nation’s energy consumption. A 1,000-MW nuclear reactor produces enough electricity to supply power for 740,000 households. The equivalent generation of power by conventional energy sources requires either 13.7 million barrels of oil, 3.4 million short tons of coal, or 65.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas. Finally, the Energy Roadmap is a jobs bill. Estimates of job creation are: Coastal Plain of ANWR; 750,000 jobs Outer Continental Shelf (OCS); 1.2 million jobs annually Coal to Liquids; 6,000 direct jobs on site of CTL plant; 84,000 indirect jobs throughout the region; 45,000 temporary jobs during construction Oil Shale; 100,000 jobs Nuclear Power; 480,000 construction jobs; 140,000 permanent jobs Renewable Electricity; 500,000 jobs For more information on the Energy Roadmap, please click here.
05.26.2011	Today, Representative Devin Nunes (CA-21) announced the introduction of the Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act. Companion legislation, S.1031, has been authored in the Senate by Senators Tom Coburn (OK), Richard Burr (NC), and Saxby Chambliss (GA). The Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act will restore Medicaid’s mission and financial sustainability while empowering state leaders to develop local health care solutions. The Act achieves these goals by removing the unresponsive federal bureaucracy from the administration of the program, repealing all unfunded mandates, and targeting financial assistance to low-income Americans. “Medicaid today is a program that is failing. It has placed state budgets on life support and trapped millions of Americans in a complex and non-responsive health system,” said Rep. Nunes. “It is a lowest common denominator system of care that would never be tolerated by our nation’s elected leaders and it should not be imposed on the poor.” The Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act provides targeted assistance using pass through grants that are calculated based on each state’s ratio of low-income population to the national average. These grants would be updated each year to account for rising costs and changes to population. “State governments will finally have the flexibility to design and implement a low-income insurance program that meets their unique needs without the uncertainty that characterizes the current federal program. This is essential if we are to deliver responsive and high quality health care to low-income Americans,” said Rep. Nunes. Passage of the Medicaid Improvement and State Empowerment Act will ensure pregnant women, low-income children, and low-income families receive health coverage that is responsive and affordable. States may extend these improvements to low-income elderly and disabled populations using a managed care entity. However, current coverage for these populations remains unchanged.
05.18.2011	Today, Representatives Devin Nunes, Kevin McCarthy and Jeff Denham announced that the House Natural Resources Committee will move forward with legislative consideration of H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act. The Subcommittee on Water and Power has scheduled the hearing for June 2, 2011, which will be followed by a markup in full committee before the House considers the proposal. “The days of hiding behind judges, settling parties, and the promise of a new study have passed. Congress needs to enact laws for the people. That means ending the grip on our water supply by obsessed ideologues whose environmental record can only be measured a success if you count increased human suffering as the goal,” said Rep. Nunes. “This is common sense legislation that aggressively tackles our man-made drought and turns the faucet back on for our local farmers and ranchers. I look forward to the hearing and will continue to work to move this vital legislation through Congress so we can help get people back to work,” said Rep. McCarthy. "Outdated environmental policies have hindered Valley farmers for too long and this hearing is the next step towards ensuring that our farmers have a reliable water source. With sustainable, predictable resources Valley farmers will be able to grow their crops, create jobs and drive our economy," said Rep. Denham. The hearing will take place on June 2nd at 10:00 AM in room 1324 of the Longworth House Office Building. Bill Overview The San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, introduced on May 11, 2011, will restore the efficient operation of the region’s water infrastructure in order to maximize benefits to water users and the environment. Key provisions include: Bay-Delta Accord The bill establishes the historic bipartisan Bay-Delta Accord as federal law and will guarantee that water is available to farms, communities, and the environment. Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) Reforms The bill focuses resources on the protection of native species, such as Steelhead, Sturgeon and Salmon. It ends the waste of water resources and establishes long overdue transparency and accountability measures to protect taxpayers. San Joaquin River Settlement Repeal and Replace The bill replaces the San Joaquin River Settlement with a plan that prioritizes a viable fishery, enhanced recreation and reliable water supplies for communities and farms. As a result, American taxpayers are expected save close to $1 billion. Creates Jobs and Economic Growth The end of regulatory uncertainty and the availability of reliable water supplies are expected to create 25,000 - 30,000 jobs in the region. Ends Dominance of Special Interests and Lawsuits To protect Central Valley Project (CVP) and State Water Project (SWP) contractors, the Act ends the dominance of special interests and legal proceedings in the management of the region’s water supply so long as the CVP and SWP are operated consistent with the Bay Delta Accord. Furthermore, the Act ensures that neither the Federal nor state government can restrict water supplies below the levels included in the Bay-Delta Accord. Editors Note: The San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act is based on the 1994 Bay-Delta Accord. That agreement was hailed by the Clinton Administration as a model for the settlement of longstanding competing water interests. Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt commended the Accord as “a powerful case study”— one that could ultimately save the Endangered Species Act. (San Francisco Examiner - “Deal Could Save Endangered Species Act”, December 18, 1994) Senator Dianne Feinstein offered strong support for the Bay-Delta Accord and takes credit for facilitating the agreement—“The Bay-Delta Accord provides a roadmap for meeting the twin objectives of ecosystem restoration and improved water supply,” – Senator Dianne Feinstein. (The CALFED Bay-Delta Authorization Act - A Balanced Law to Improve California’s Environment and Water Supply, May 18, 2005) "As I talk to others wrestling with water issues across the Nation, I cite the Accord as a model for other states… I want to reiterate my continuing support for this consensus process and reaffirm the Department’s commitment to work cooperatively to achieve the goals still before you." – John R. Garamendi, Deputy Secretary, Department of the Interior (CALFED Bay-Delta Program Press Release - “Mark One-Year Anniversary of Bay-Delta Accord”, December 15, 1995) [It will provide] "an affordable and reliable future water supply." – John R. Wodraska, General Manager, Metropolitan Water District (Los Angeles Times – “Landmark Accord Reached on Use of Bay-Delta Water”, December 16, 1994) Self described environmentalist and champion of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act, Rep. George Miller, also praised the Accord— "(The) agreement marks the first time in the 92-year history of federally supported water development in the western United States that all water interests have embraced a comprehensive and scientifically sound approach to water management and species protection," – Rep. George Miller, former chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee (California Biodiversity News – “Bay-Delta Pact Brings Certainty; Stakeholders Plan Long-Term 'Fix'”, Spring 1995, Volume 2, Number 3) Republican Governor Pete Wilson and a variety of competing water interests joined in praising the Bay-Delta Accord. So too did activists from the environmental community— [The accord] "finally secures significant environmental improvements for the Bay-Delta estuary." – John Krautkraemer, Environmental Defense Fund. (Los Angeles Times – “Landmark Accord Reached on Use of Bay-Delta Water”, December 16, 1994)
05.18.2011	“The American people want spending under control, which is largely why they took away the President’s blank check in November of 2010. It should come as no surprise to observers that I and a majority of my colleagues in the House will not support a “clean” debt limit increase. Nor will we be compelled into a compromise that ignores our nation’s structural budget problems on the basis of “chicken little” tactics. The President and his allies should be aware that a default by the federal government, no matter how damaging and painful it may be, is not so great a threat as to force the House Republican Conference to cave in our unified demand for spending controls. The massive structural budget deficits we face make the Obama Administration’s proposal a greater threat to our economy than a short-term default, which would by necessity be followed by substantial budget reforms. The Obama debt limit increase would result in higher interest rates in a depressed economy with no reforms to our bloated government— reforms that are essential to improving the U.S. economy. In short, it is time to put to an end President Obama’s notion of a phony debt limit— one that exists in theory but not in practice,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Editors Note: Congressman Nunes in Politico today: “No one is saying, ‘Raise the debt limit.’ No one. Zero. Unless you pay really close attention to politics, you’re not talking about the debt ceiling,” Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) said of his interactions with constituents. Of his colleagues, he said, “Everyone’s getting the TARP feeling again.” As for the debt limit, there are indications that rank-and-file Republicans are rejecting warnings from the administration, many economists and even some GOP leaders that default would result in an abrupt international economic collapse. Nunes says the debt cap must be raised at some point but not necessarily before the point of default. “By defaulting on the debt, in the short and long term, it could benefit us to go through a period of crisis that forces politicians to make decisions” on major policies that affect the budget, he told POLITICO. Congressman Nunes’ comments sparked an immediate response by liberal bloggers and their allies who believe that the debt limit is fine in theory but not in practice. Senator Tom Carper (D-Del) said, “When I hear people say stuff like that, I wonder what they’re smoking,” Carper, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, told us. “And it’s not something that’s legal -- well, it could be.” (link) Special note to Senator Carper: The addicts in the room are not conservatives seeking sensible spending controls. They are your ideological allies who are so addicted to spending other people’s money that they can’t stop even when there is nothing left to spend.
05.13.2011	Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) today announced that the House Financial Services Committee has passed legislation to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program. As part of that legislation, several important provisions were approved that will result in better program management and significant savings. Among the amendments approved today was one based on the Flood Insurance Choice Act, a bill authored by Congressman Nunes in April. The inclusion of this provision will provide homeowners the choice of buying private flood insurance, which is generally less expensive. Homeowners will also be able to make quarterly payments, adding flexibility to the system. “Choice and competition will help reduce flood insurance costs, particularly in communities like Visalia,” said Rep. Nunes. The Committee also eliminated the ability of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to pretend levies don’t exist on the basis that they have been inadequately maintained. Such decisions have impacted many communities, including Visalia, and are not reflective of actual risk. “A ‘poorly maintained’ levy is clearly not the same thing as ‘no levy,’ and this change is overdue,” said Rep. Nunes. The Congressman continued, “I am very appreciative of Chairman Bachus for his willingness to offer my language as an amendment to this important bill and would like to thank Committee Members Shelley Moore Capito and David Schweikert for their support.” The Flood Insurance Reform Act passed the Financial Services Committee on May 13, 2011. For more information about the legislation, click here.
05.11.2011	Today, the San Joaquin Valley’s Republican Congressional Delegation unveiled legislation to restore the flow of water to beleaguered communities in the world’s most productive and highly valued agricultural region. The bill, titled the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, is a comprehensive regional solution to government-imposed water shortages. It places into statute the 1994 agreement known as the Bay-Delta Accord, which received bipartisan support and praise. That agreement promised to end regulatory uncertainty and assured a reliable supply of water for communities, farms and the environment. “The Republican controlled House is delivering on its commitment to the people of the San Joaquin Valley. We listened to the people, and we have put forward a plan. Now it is time for the Senate to do the same,” said Congressman Nunes. “It is unacceptable that California’s man-made drought is taking away water our communities need to grow crops and create local jobs," said Congressman McCarthy. "This landmark legislation would get water flowing again in the Central Valley by knocking down onerous and unfounded government regulations that can leave our farmers high and dry. The bottom line is that without water, our local farmers and ranchers will continue to struggle. This bill ensures the government is not turning off the faucet on jobs and families in our communities.” “For too long, San Joaquin Valley farmers and ranchers have been unable to fully utilize their agricultural resources due to the unpredictable and unreliable supply of water,” said Congressman Denham. “We can no longer afford to operate under outdated and unworkable policies that have hindered California’s farms and economy for more than a decade. At a time when the Valley suffers from double-digit unemployment rates, California farmers need a reliable water supply more than ever in order to create jobs and grow our economy.” The San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act restores the efficient operation of the region’s water infrastructure in order to maximize benefits to all water users. Key provisions include: Bay-Delta Accord The bill establishes the historic bipartisan Bay-Delta Accord as federal law and will guarantee that water is available to farms, communities, and the environment. Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA) Reforms The bill focuses resources on the protection of native species, such as Steelhead, Sturgeon and Salmon. It ends the waste of water resources and establishes long overdue transparency and accountability measures to protect taxpayers. San Joaquin River Settlement Repeal and Replace The bill replaces the San Joaquin River Settlement with a plan that prioritizes a viable fishery, enhanced recreation and reliable water supplies for communities and farms. As a result, American taxpayers are expected save close to $1 billion. Creates Jobs and Economic Growth The end of regulatory uncertainty and the availability of reliable water supplies are expected to create 25,000 - 30,000 jobs in the region. Ends Dominance of Special Interests and Lawsuits To protect Central Valley Project (CVP) and State Water Project (SWP) contractors, the Act ends the dominance of special interests and legal proceedings in the management of the region’s water supply so long as the CVP and SWP are operated consistent with the Bay Delta Accord. Furthermore, the Act ensures that neither the Federal nor state government can restrict water supplies below the levels included in the Bay-Delta Accord. Today’s bill introduction follows extensive local outreach, including a public hearing in Fresno by the House Natural Resources Committee. Congressman Nunes transmitted a copy of the legislation to Senator Dianne Feinstein, who is credited with facilitating the Bay-Delta Accord, requesting her support. Editors Note: The San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act is based on the 1994 Bay-Delta Accord. That agreement was hailed by the Clinton Administration as a model for the settlement of longstanding competing water interests. Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt commended the Accord as “a powerful case study”— one that could ultimately save the Endangered Species Act. (San Francisco Examiner - “Deal Could Save Endangered Species Act”, December 18, 1994) Senator Dianne Feinstein offered strong support for the Bay-Delta Accord and takes credit for facilitating the agreement—“The Bay-Delta Accord provides a roadmap for meeting the twin objectives of ecosystem restoration and improved water supply,” – Senator Dianne Feinstein. (The CALFED Bay-Delta Authorization Act - A Balanced Law to Improve California’s Environment and Water Supply, May 18, 2005) Self described environmentalist and champion of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act, Rep. George Miller, also praised the Accord— "(The) agreement marks the first time in the 92-year history of federally supported water development in the western United States that all water interests have embraced a comprehensive and scientifically sound approach to water management and species protection," – Rep. George Miller, former chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee (California Biodiversity News – “Bay-Delta Pact Brings Certainty; Stakeholders Plan Long-Term 'Fix'”, Spring 1995, Volume 2, Number 3) Republican Governor Pete Wilson and a variety of competing water interests joined in praising the Bay-Delta Accord. So too did activists from the environmental community— [The accord] "finally secures significant environmental improvements for the Bay-Delta estuary." – John Krautkraemer, Environmental Defense Fund. (Los Angeles Times – “Landmark Accord Reached on Use of Bay-Delta Water”, December 16, 1994)
05.11.2011	In response to concerns about the availability of photographs taken during the raid of the bin Laden compound, Congressman Devin Nunes released the following statement: "As a Member of the Intelligence Committee, I have examined some of the photos taken during the raid of the bin Laden compound. In my view, proper oversight requires full disclosure to Congress and that is what we are pursuing. After viewing the photos, I am in complete agreement with Chairman Rogers that public disclosure must not occur. The cost benefit analysis leaves no question about the appropriateness of the President’s decision. Simply put, the marginal benefits of releasing the information — namely to support the established fact that bin Laden is dead — is far outweighed by the reality that releasing the photographs would make the work of our soldiers and national security professionals more dangerous. In addition, it is important to understand that those who do not believe bin Laden is dead will not alter their view simply because the government parades graphic photographs before the public." Representative Nunes is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
05.05.2011	Today, the House Ways and Means Committee Subcommittee on Oversight examined H.R. 567, the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act, and received testimony detailing the lack of transparency and serious funding challenges confronting state and local pensions. (watch the hearing online) “Today, public employee pensions are operating in the dark without meaningful transparency requirements and with little or no accountability to beneficiaries or the people paying the bills – namely the taxpayer. A powerful case was made today for action by Congress. I believe the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act represents the best course of action,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. During the hearing, Colorado State Treasurer Walker Stapleton testified that accounting standards currently used by state and local pensions are akin to “the Wild West” and that H.R. 567 was needed for taxpayers, pension holders, and policy makers to understand the true debt associated with public pension plans. Stapleton went on to equate current practices as akin to gambling with the financial welfare of future generations. Josh Barro of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research testified that today, “reviewing a public pension fund’s financial report does not necessarily make it possible to answer basic questions, such as: how much do we owe? How much do the pension benefits we provide cost? And how can we expect pension contributions to change over the next several years?” Although some actuaries, public pension plan managers, and government employee unions oppose transparency, increasing objective evidence is becoming difficult to explain away. The City of San Francisco, for example, is now spending $357 million to fund public pensions. Over the next two years, payments will rise to $800 million. These enormous increases shock local and state budgets because of the unrealistic and misleading accounting standards currently in use. They also can result in sudden and drastic tax increases or reductions in services. Testimony from Barro underscored this point. Public pension plan debt is estimated by independent analysts and academic researchers to range from $660 billion to more than $3 trillion. In some cases, jurisdictions are using bonding authority to borrow money in order to make contributions to their public pension plans or to make high risk investments. “There is near unanimity among financial economists that public pension accounting reforms are needed. The few who want to keep the public in the dark either don’t understand the reforms I propose or suffer from a lack of objectivity. No compelling arguments against the bill were made during today’s hearing,” said Nunes. A recent Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report supported the conclusions and testimony made by the majority of Ways and Means panel today. According to CBO, fair valuation (such as the reforms included in the Nunes bill) offers a more complete picture and transparent measure of the cost of pension obligations. (download the CBO report)
04.13.2011	Earlier today, President Obama delivered a speech on the deficit. Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) provided the following response: “The President’s remarks today suggest he is stuck in a time warp. He apparently doesn’t understand that elections have consequences. His proposal for the largest tax increase in American history is a non-starter and suggests a complete lack of understanding of our nation’s economic and budgetary challenges. Simply put, we do not have a revenue problem. The growth in debt is due to an unprecedented growth in spending – growth that is projected to eclipse the heights of World War II in a few short years. In sharp contrast to the President’s posturing today, House Republicans are offering a solution that tackles the cause of our nation’s debt – spending. We are not interested in punishing struggling American families with more taxation; nor are we inclined to push more jobs out of our country by doubling down on America’s current role as the most heavily taxed business environment in the developed world. I hope the President and his colleagues in the Senate realize that they are playing politics with the economic future of our nation, because unless they come to the table with serious proposals, that is exactly what they are doing.”
04.11.2011	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes and 25 House Colleagues called on President Barack Obama to release willing farmers from their Conservation Reserve Program Contracts in order to produce additional grain. With Americans facing rising food prices and government officials predicting the possibility of grain shortages, immediate action is necessary to enhance U.S. production. “Americans deserve a government that plans for the future. That means responding to threats of grain shortages, not just predicting them. Releasing some land from CRP contract will provide an infusion of additional production that is desperately needed. It’s a decision the President can make and one he should act upon as quickly as possible,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Record Production / Falling Stocks In 2011, grain production in the United States is expected to cover 92 million acres – one of the largest plantings in more than 50 years. Yet despite this enormous production, domestic supplies of grains are falling at the fastest rate ever recorded by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Meanwhile, U.S. consumer food prices (for proteins) have risen by 6.8% in the past year, more than triple inflation. The costs of staple commodities are rising at an alarming rate, threatening the weakened U.S. economy but also pushing struggling families beyond their limits. Real Shortages Global demand for grains has soared and various national and international agencies are predicting that shortages are likely. As a result, many nations are stockpiling reserves. Throughout Asia and the developing world, governments are working to establish significant reserves. It is time for the U.S. government to recognize the crisis and take action. Action Congressman Nunes and his colleagues believe it is essential for the President to act. The USDA can promote increased grain production by releasing willing farmers of arable land from the Conservation Reserve Program. There are 32 million acres currently out of production under CRP contracts. A significant amount of this land could be used to produce crops.
04.07.2011	Congressman Devin Nunes today announced the introduction of the Flood Insurance Choice Act, a bill that will empower homeowners to select private flood insurance in lieu of policies sold under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). “As Congress grapples with unprecedented budget shortfalls and seeks ways to improve the delivery and efficiency of essential services, innovations like private flood insurance should be encouraged. Private flood insurance has the potential of saving homeowners money but also may reduce liabilities and costs currently carried by taxpayers,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 established a mandatory flood insurance purchase requirement for structures located in Special Flood Hazard Areas. This federal mandate has been implemented by requiring lenders to condition real estate loans on the maintenance of a flood insurance policy. Private insurance, while not explicitly excluded from the program, has never thrived due to uncertainty about Congressional intent and the acceptance of private policies by lenders. The Nunes bill ends this uncertainty and clarifies the appropriateness of private flood insurance, so long as it complies with the NFIP’s coverage requirements. “This bill is not a panacea to the struggles related to the National Flood Insurance Program. But it is a way to provide homeowners choice, while injecting competitive forces into the flood insurance market. Americans will continue to have the option of selecting a government policy, but they will no longer be compelled to do so,” said Nunes. The Nunes legislation is intended to be part of the National Flood Insurance Program reform debate, which is currently underway in the House Financial Services Committee.
04.06.2011	On Monday, April 11, 2011 the House Natural Resources Committee’s Subcommittee on Water and Power will hold a field hearing in Fresno, California on “Creating Jobs by Overcoming Man-Made Drought: Time for Congress to Listen and Act.” The hearing will examine federal government policies that have created and contributed to California’s man-made drought and the actions needed to supply the San Joaquin Valley with water to put thousands back to work, feed the nation and grow the economy. WHAT: Subcommittee on Water and Power Field Hearing: “Creating Jobs by Overcoming Man-Made Drought: Time for Congress to Listen and Act” WHERE: Fresno City Council Chambers 2600 Fresno Street, Fresno, California WHEN: Monday, April 11, 2011 10:00am – 1:00pm PDT Background: California’s water storage and transportation system includes 1,200 miles of canals and nearly 50 reservoirs that provide water to 23 million people and irrigate four million acres of land throughout the state. In May 2007, a Federal District Court Judge ruled that increased amounts of water had to be re-allocated towards protecting the Delta smelt – a three-inch fish on the Endangered Species List. Water is also re-allocated for salmon. Because of this ruling, more than 300 billion gallons of water were diverted last year away from San Joaquin Valley farmers to the Pacific Ocean. Some nearby communities experienced massive unemployment as a result. Sierra Nevada snowpack is at near record levels but San Joaquin Valley farmers may only get 50% of their water allocations this year while at least 23 billion gallons is currently being flushed to the ocean each day, keeping thousands out of work. Because California is the number one agricultural producer in the United States, no water means a smaller food supply, higher food prices nationwide, and increased reliance on foreign food sources.
03.16.2011	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) expressed his frustration and disapproval of media coverage related to the Japanese nuclear emergency. Nunes, the author of A Roadmap for America’s Energy Future, is working to advance legislation that would mandate approval of 200 nuclear reactors in the United States by 2040. The legislation has 65 co-sponsors. Statement of Representative Devin Nunes: “With all of the sensational news coverage surrounding Japan’s nuclear crisis, I thought it was time that someone begin a rational discussion. The 9.0 magnitude earthquake and unprecedented tsunami that followed has caused mass devastation and enormous human suffering in Japan. Thousands are dead and authorities are struggling to deliver essential services to prevent further loss of life. The facts on the ground are horrific by any standard and recovery will take considerable time. As a result of the nuclear emergency, the crisis is ongoing and it is important for U.S. nuclear safety officials and public health agencies to closely monitor the situation. Americans are rightly concerned and deserve a factual reporting of the crisis. Unfortunately, we are instead being bombarded by sensational headlines and commentary that stretches the bounds of scientific reality to the point of utter fiction. Based on media reporting, one might reasonably assume that the embattled Japanese reactors were soon to engulf the island nation in a nuclear explosion – sending radioactive debris akin to Chernobyl into the atmosphere. But this is not a scientific possibility; it will not happen. While the news accounts we are witnessing are highly troubling and downright frightening, there is no threat to the West Coast of the United States nor is there a threat to the lives of the Japanese people who have been evacuated to safe distances during the crisis. Let me briefly outline why: All of the reactors that are in a state of nuclear emergency have been shut down. They automatically shut down when a seismic event occurs. The crisis is resulting from the loss of primary power due to the earthquake, as well as the loss of backup generators due to the tsunami. Reactor cooling was not functioning properly, resulting in the threat of a meltdown at several reactors. If the reactors experience a core meltdown because they cannot be adequately cooled, the containment system will protect the human population. When Three Mile Island experienced a partial meltdown in 1979, the containment system was almost entirely undamaged with less than 5/8 of an inch of shielding impacted. Assuming the containment system partially fails (or fails entirely) the resulting radiation will not consume Japan and will not expose the West Coast of the United States. At this point, some reports indicate there could be damage to one of the reactors containment structures. The radiation levels currently reported are not lethal. They have spiked within close range of the reactors but have also quickly dissipated. The containment system, composed of steel and concrete, has not been destroyed despite the magnitude of the earthquake and the impact of the tsunami. Steam is being vented from the reactor core to reduce pressure but that steam does not carry lethal radiation and it is quickly dissipated. Fires and explosions at the plant are serious but they were not nuclear explosions, nuclear fires, or radioactive explosions. They were the result of hydrogen buildup – which is a byproduct of emergency cooling efforts. Clearly the situation remains fluid and in the final analysis there will be important lessons learned from the crisis. However, our long-term economic growth and the goal of energy independence will require large scale deployment of state-of-the-art nuclear energy facilities. That is what I propose in A Roadmap for America’s Energy Future – the all of the above solution to U.S. energy needs.”
03.15.2011	Today, Congressman Nunes released the following statement concerning media coverage of the situation in Japan and the importance of expanded nuclear energy production in the United States. “I am highly disappointed with the media’s sensational coverage of the nuclear emergency in Japan. The victims of the earthquake and resulting tsunami deserve better. The facts, as we know them today, are not an indictment of nuclear energy safety. Quite the reverse is true. The survival of the 40 year old containment systems under such extreme conditions helps to prove the safety and durability of nuclear power. To provide the United States the energy it needs to prosper, it is essential to move forward with the deployment of at least 200 reactors,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Congressman Nunes is the author of the Roadmap for America’s Energy Future, also known as the Energy Roadmap, which has the support of 65 co-sponsors. The Energy Roadmap is a budget neutral, comprehensive national energy strategy. It delivers lower energy prices, enhanced energy security, and lasting economic growth. The Energy Roadmap increases our domestic supply of energy by lifting restrictions on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the Outer Continental Shelf, and oil shale in the Mountain West. It also removes barriers to expanding the uses of our nation’s extensive coal supplies to fill the tanks of American military vehicles and jets. To reduce electricity costs and provide enough base-load energy for the expansion of hybrid and advanced electric vehicles, the Energy Roadmap will triple our nation’s nuclear energy capacity. This carbon free energy source will help us ensure 70% of the electricity generated in America is carbon emission free. The Roadmap for America’s Energy Future acknowledges that dependence on a single fuel source, particularly a finite resource, is not in our national interest and establishes a renewable energy trust fund to spur the mass deployment of affordable alternatives. The trust fund will be financed by the revenue generated by new fossil fuel development and not the American taxpayer, a mechanism that recognizes that the development of conventional energy does not have to be inconsistent with the long-term goal of renewables. Finally, the Energy Roadmap legislation exceeds President Barack Obama’s carbon reduction goals. However, the carbon reductions will not necessitate, as the President famously opined during his campaign for office, massive energy rate hikes on American consumers.
02.17.2011	Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) and Senator Mike Crapo (ID) today announced the bi-cameral introduction of legislation that will limit the unchecked Presidential power related to the designation of new national monuments. “The bill that we introduced today will improve the Antiquities Act by limiting the president’s unfettered discretion and ensuring a more inclusive designation process,” said Rep. Nunes. “This kind of top-down directive is anything but collaborative,” Crapo said. “For too long, Presidents have had the ability to sneak monument designations into law without any Congressional oversight, review or approval. This legislation is critical so that the public and Congress can review and engage in any decisions involving private and public lands and designations for national monuments.” Presidential power to establish National Monuments on federals lands flows from The Antiquities Act of 1906 – a law that was enacted in response to fears of the destruction and theft of U.S. archaeological sites and treasures. In the more than 100 years that have passed since its creation, the Act has been used on a much grander scale by both Democratic and Republican administrations. Today, there are 71 National Monuments located in 26 states, covering some 136 million acres. National Monument designations result in severe restrictions on public lands, public lands, which has led to the economic devastation of surrounding communities that have historically relied on the resources yielded by these lands. President Clinton designated 5.9 million acres, including vast swaths of the Sierra and Sequoia National Forests, as protected monuments. The economic impact was swift and devastating with mill closures alone causing nearly 60,000 lost jobs. The Nunes/Crapo legislation comes in advance of new designations likely to be made by the Obama Administration, which were detailed in a leaked Department of Interior memo in 2010. The Interior Department memo detailed plans to designate or expand monuments in Arizona, California, Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Nevada, and Washington. The reforms contained in the National Monuments Designation Transparency and Accountability Act would restore Congress’ authority over monument designations by requiring the legislative branch to approve new National Monuments within two years of establishment. Failing Congressional approval, new monuments would revert to their previous status. The bill would also ensure that any restrictions placed on public lands are narrowly tailored and essential to the proper care and management of the objects protected by a monument designation. The following organizations support the National Monument Designation Transparency and Accountability Act: American Sheep Industry Association, Arizona Wool Growers Association, California Forestry Association, California Wool Growers Association, Colorado Wool Growers Association, Idaho Wool Growers Association, Independent Oil Producers Association, Montana Wool Growers Association, National Association of Counties, Public Lands Council, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, Nevada Cattlemen’s Association, Nevada Wool Growers Association, New Mexico Cattle Growers Association, New Mexico Federal Lands Council, New Mexico Wool Growers, Inc., Northern New Mexico Stockmen’s Association, Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, Oregon Sheep Growers Association, South Dakota Cattlemen’s Association, Texas Sheep & Goat Raisers Association, Utah Cattlemen’s Association, Utah Wool Growers Association, Washington State Sheep Producers, and Wyoming Wool Growers Association.
02.17.2011	Today, Representatives Devin Nunes (CA-21), Kevin McCarthy (CA-22), and Jeff Denham (CA-19) introduced legislation that would empower California state leaders to make sweeping investments to State Route 99. The legislation, titled the San Joaquin Valley Transportation Enhancement Act, would allow the State of California to redirect federal high speed rail funding to finance long overdue and urgently needed roadway improvements along the State Route 99 corridor. If state and local leaders choose to support this proposal, they will have sufficient funding to establish a six-lane freeway from Sacramento to Bakersfield while vastly improving the heavily congested corridor’s safety and enhancing the region’s air quality. “The ever-escalating costs of California’s high-speed rail project need to be controlled. We are in no place to spend recklessly,” said Rep. Jeff Denham. “Until the rail project is better managed, local leaders should support this bill that uses the funds they already have to fix SR 99, and put people back to work immediately.” “State Route 99 – one of California’s most seriously congested and under-funded highways – is in need of major infrastructure improvements. Given the enormous uncertainty associated with the high-speed rail project, it seems prudent to give the state the option to re-direct federal funding to fix SR 99,” said Rep. Nunes. “Ultimately, state and local leaders will have to decide, but this option should be supported by all involved.” The economic and environmental benefits of SR 99 improvements are contrasted by the uncertainty of our state’s now infamous bullet train, which the national media has described as the “bullet train to nowhere”. At this time, California is poised to spend $58 billion – using ultra conservative state estimates – on the current high-speed rail project. The final price tag is likely to exceed the combined federal highway spending in California for the 50 years from 1957-2007. In addition, a host of independent watchdog groups and government accountability agencies have questioned the viability of California High Speed Rail. Given these questions, Valley Republicans believe California should have the ability to transfer all or a portion of the federal high-speed rail funding to SR 99.
02.14.2011	Congressman Devin Nunes today announced that the 2011 Continuing Resolution introduced by Congressional leaders on Friday included provisions to restore water supplies to dry San Joaquin Valley communities (see bill text). “I would like to thank Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (KY) and Energy and Water subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ) for their support,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. The language, included in the base bill of the 2011 Continuing Resolution, would prevent any federal funds from being used to implement the biological decisions responsible for reduced Delta pumping – effectively guaranteeing normal pump operations for 2011. Furthermore, it will ban federal funding for the restoration of the San Joaquin River during the 2011 fiscal year, the first step in Republican efforts to replace the flawed billion dollar salmon run. It also demonstrates Congressional intent to suspend restoration flows for 2011 thereby keeping the water on the east side of the valley. In place of the existing restoration plan, Nunes and House leaders are seeking to establish both an environmentally and economically responsible San Joaquin River restoration. This will include a year-round, live river on the San Joaquin but will also ensure a robust east side agriculture economy. “These no cost job provisions prove that Washington doesn’t need to spend vast amounts of borrowed dollars to put Americans back to work,” said Nunes. “Now we need California Democrats, including our Senators, to do the right thing and ensure these water provisions stay in the final bill.”
02.09.2011	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) and Senator Richard Burr (NC) announced the House introduction of the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act. Companion legislation will be introduced in the Senate next week. The legislation introduced in the House today was first introduced by Representative Nunes in December. It provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions and establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. During a press conference in the Capitol, Congressman Nunes and Senator Burr were joined by the bill’s principal co-authors, including Senator John Thune (SD), Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (WI-1), and Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa (CA-49). The press conference was also attended by a coalition of bill supporters including Grover Norquist representing Americans for Tax Reform, Tom Schatz of the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste, Larry Hart of The American Conservative Union, Pete Sepp on behalf of the National Taxpayers Union, Randy Johnson of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Jim MacDougald on behalf of Free Enterprise Nation, and Steve Woods, representing the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Principal House author, Devin Nunes, offered the following statement: “Government at all levels needs to take its collective head out of the sand. We have enormous challenges associated with government spending and entitlements,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “Public employee pensions represent trillions of debt carried by the American taxpayer. Unfortunately, this debt is masked by accounting practices that would never be tolerated in the private sector. It’s time to open up the books. Once we enact this bill, retirees, government workers, policy makers, and most importantly the people who are paying the bills, can make up their own minds about the soundness of public pensions.” Principal Senate author Richard Burr: “This bill would implement uniform standards for public-employee pension funds so that citizens can accurately judge the performance of state and local authorities in managing the public trust. This information is only for the purpose of disclosure, the rights of states and local governments to fund and control their own plans is maintained,” said Sen. Burr. “The bill also prevents a federal bailout of state and local government pension plans which empowers local authorities to make the reforms needed to ensure problems cannot be dumped upon taxpayers.” Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan: "We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans, and I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common-sense legislation." Senator John Thune: "Taxpayers have a right to know the full extent of their government's underfunded liabilities," said Sen. Thune. "State and local governments should use the same accounting standards that are widely accepted in the private sector to determine the true costs associated with their pensions. As the federal government faces a looming fiscal crisis, which will require significant spending cuts and budget reforms, adding underfunded state and local pension obligations to the balance sheet is simply not an option." Government Reform and Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa: “The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that will provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030.
12.17.2010	Today Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA) announced his appointment by Speaker-Designate John Boehner (R-OH) to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “The Select Committee on Intelligence plays a critical role in the oversight of our nation’s national security activities. It is an honor to be selected to serve,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is composed of members selected by the Speaker and Minority Leader. It provides policy guidance and funding levels for the Intelligence Community. As one of the architects of U.S. intelligence strategy, the committee is the House of Representatives key link to the Director of National Intelligence and the 17 agencies that constitute the Intelligence Community. Service on the committee, which is currently composed of 22 members, is limited to eight years. In his statement announcing the Republican composition of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Speaker-Designate John Boehner said: “The members of the House Intelligence Committee are charged with one of the most significant responsibilities of Congress – keeping the American people safe by ensuring our nation’s intelligence community has the resources and authorities it needs to succeed and conducting effective oversight of the Administration. Republicans have made a Pledge to America to keep our nation secure at home and abroad, and I am confident that the experience and expertise that all of our Members bring to their posts will enhance the effectiveness of the Committee. I look forward to working with them.” Congressman Nunes, who represents Tulare County and parts of Fresno, currently serves as a senior member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee. He was first elected to Congress in 2002. Nunes will begin his tenure as a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in January.
12.02.2010	Today, Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act (text available here). The bill, which provides enhanced transparency for state and local pensions, also establishes a clear federal prohibition on any future public pension bailouts by the federal government. “As we speak, lucrative pension promises are being made to public employees that taxpayers simply cannot afford. The plans themselves admit to more than a $1 trillion in unfunded liabilities,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. “Unfortunately, the true level of unfunded liabilities associated with these plans – perhaps more than $3 trillion – is being hidden thanks to unrealistic accounting standards.” Congressman Paul Ryan, incoming Budget Committee Chairman, offered the following statement regarding the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act: “We need to ensure that state and local governments are accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities, including the cost of pension plans for public employees. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will make government more accountable to taxpayers by shining a light on the financial soundness and unfunded obligations associated with these plans and I’m honored to join Representatives Nunes and Issa in sponsoring this common sense legislation.” Congressman Darrell Issa, Incoming Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee said: “The American people have a right to know the truth about the unfunded liabilities being run-up by state and local pensions. Quite frankly, if they have nothing to hide, there’s no reason why the states and local governments who control public employee pensions should not embrace this effort to ensure that the taxpayers have a more transparent accounting of the true nature of pension liabilities.” Most state and local governments offer their employees defined benefit pension plans. These plans currently promise retirement pensions to about 20 million active employees, while another seven million retirees and their dependants are receiving benefits today. According to leading financial experts, the enormous debt reported by public employee pensions fails to convey the true size of the debt confronting taxpayers because public pensions are able to calculate their liabilities using unreasonably high discount rates. In many instances, they also distort fair market value of assets in order to hide debt. The Public Employee Pension Transparency Act will establish new transparency rules, allowing plans to report their existing financial data but also requiring them to report their methods and assumptions. Public employee pension plans will also have to report their liabilities using a uniform accounting standard that provide realistic rates of return and tie assets to more reasonable fair market valuations. State and local officials should welcome increased public pension transparency as a tool to increase public finance soundness. However, plan sponsors may decide against reporting this information. To incentivize transparency, the bill links the creation of new federally subsidized debt at the state and local level with an honest accounting of current public pension liabilities. Failure to report will result in the suspension of all federal tax-exempt bonding authority for the jurisdiction(s) whose employees are covered by the non-compliant plan. “With few real disclosure requirements, public employee pension plans are at even further risk of not only jeopardizing retirement packages for active and retired employees, but also putting taxpayers in grave danger. This bill will provide a much-needed dose of financial transparency,” said Jordan Forbes, of the National Taxpayers Union. Independent studies demonstrate that public employee pensions had approximately $1.94 trillion set aside to pay retirement benefits promised to government workers as of 2008. However, these pensions have liabilities of $5.17 trillion, which means that they are underfunded by $3.23 trillion. Ten states including Oklahoma, Louisiana, Illinois, New Jersey, Connecticut, Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Hawaii, and Indiana are projected to run out of pension funds by 2020, the vast majority of states will have exhausted their pension funds by 2030. “State and local governments’ empty coffers should not be ignored, nor should they become dependent on federal bailouts to ensure the fiscal soundness of their pension plans. Increasing pension fund transparency will make lawmakers more accountable to taxpayers and compel them to deal with the reality of their fiscal crisis,” said Thomas Schatz, President of Citizens Against Government Waste. “By requiring accurate accounting, disclosure online and certifying the end of federal bailouts, the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act would address the underlying deficiencies that have allowed states and municipalities to be fiscally reckless with their pension plans,” said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform. Support for the Public Employee Pension Transparency Act includes the Americans for Tax Reform, Americans for Prosperity, American Conservative Union, Citizens Against Government Waste, National Taxpayers Union, Americans for Limited Government, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes introduced legislation to reform the manner in which Congressional Districts are drawn following the decennial census. The legislation would impact redistricting prior to the 2012 elections. “For too long, the voters have been used in an electoral game that has allowed legislators to stack the deck. It is time to change the game. The American voter should decide who their representative is and not the other way around,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Titled the Congressional Redistricting Formula Act, the Nunes bill requires Congressional Districts to be drawn based on a specific set of rules. Specifically, politicians would be banned from intentionally diluting the voting strength of any person or group and would be required to keep communities whole by minimizing divisions and fragmentations of cities and counties. These reforms would end the practice of partisan Gerrymandering. “Allowing political consultants to draw made-to-order Congressional Districts for their political bosses has emasculated the democratic process. It has divided communities that share both geographic and historic ties and it has helped build an empire of political patronage for out of touch party leaders. Worst of all, it has fueled rampant voter apathy and distrust and has caused serious damage to the reputation of the Peoples’ House,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. The Nunes bill exercises the Constitutional authority of Congress under Article One, Section Four, to enact laws governing the time, place and manner of Congressional elections. It has been endorsed by the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization committed to election reforms. “The Congressional Redistricting Formula Act is to be commended as a commonsense effort to curb some of the most blatant abuses of the redistricting process,” said J. Gerald Hebert, Executive Director of the Campaign Legal Center. Hebert continued, “Representative Nunes’ bill deserves broad bipartisan support, public attention, and a hearing – something that has been denied to numerous past efforts to reform the redistricting system.
09.23.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes will be holding his annual Academy Night at 6:30 PM on Monday, September 27, 2010. More than a 100 students and parents are expected to attend the informational meeting, which will include an overview of the nomination process for America’s most prestigious military academies. The event is being held at the Clovis Unified School District’s Professional Development Building, which is located at 1680 David E. Cook Way. Representatives from the United States Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force and Naval Academies will be in attendance. ROTC representatives from California State University Fresno are also participating in this year’s event to answer questions about other college opportunities related to military service. Academy Night 2010 is open to the press. Please contact Andrew House at 202-281-8646 to RSVP or for questions about the meeting.
09.23.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes issued the following statement today following the release of the House Republican’s “Pledge to America.” “Some conservatives may look at the House Republican “Pledge to America” with concern – not over what it contains, but what it does not contain. There are, after all, several big issues that are not tackled, including energy security, fundamental tax and entitlement reforms. But I see this initiative as an important step in a far more ambitious plan to restore American liberty and prosperity. First, the rubber stamp would be put away and the Obama Administration would be subject to meaningful oversight – something essential to the preservation of our freedoms. Second, the House of Representatives - governed by a new Republican majority - will serve as the standard bearer for limited government and the strict adherence to America’s Constitutional principles. And thirdly, Democracy will be restored to the people’s House after many tarnished years under the iron fist of Speaker Pelosi and her allies. Committees will examine and write legislation, not unaccountable special interests in the backrooms of the Speaker’s office. Ideas will be debated again, in place of intimidation and vote buying. Bills will actually be read before they are voted on and the American people will again have their voice heard. These are good reasons to support the “Pledge to America,” as are the many proposals it contains to slim down and reign in government. However, the pledge should be viewed as the starting point not the ultimate solution to our nation’s enormous challenges.”
09.21.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes today called on Ways and Means Chairman Sanders Levin to investigate reports that the White House has inappropriately accessed the tax information of political opponents. A copy of the letter can be found here. Nunes also posted a commentary on this subject, included below, on the Big Government blog: Modern leftists have long used the power of government to excerpt control and silence dissent. The erosion of free speech in America has come in a number of ways, not all of which are the result of new laws. Such is the case today. I recently learned that the White House has launched an attack against a privately owned American company, Koch Industries. This attack may include the unlawful use of Internal Revenue Service documents. As a Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, which has jurisdiction over the IRS, I am highly concerned that the White House may be prying into the tax returns of its political enemies. For this reason, I have called on my Chairman, Rep. Sanders Levin, to immediately conduct oversight inquires into the actions of the Obama White House. Should Chairman Levin fail to do so, I am hopeful that November will bring into power a majority willing to uncover the truth. The White House attack against Koch is politically motivated. The White House wants to end the company’s lawful financial support for conservative and libertarian causes – effectively silencing its opponents. Koch’s financial support goes to organizations like Humane Studies, a non-profit that underwrites libertarian academics, the Bill of Rights Institute, another non-profit that advocates adherence to our nation’s Constitution, and the CATO Institute, America’s leading libertarian think tank. These Koch funded organizations and others like them represent the views of the company’s private owners – men who support limited government and libertarian causes. Their work stands in sharp contrast to that of George Soros, the billionaire socialist who created Moveon.org. The philanthropy of these two billionaires helps frame the ideological struggle confronting America today. Koch’s giving has helped organizations that believe in American freedom and the Republic form of government. Soros on the other hand has built an empire of radical liberal politics. The seeds of Soros’ investments have grown to promote European Socialism in America, a renaissance of big government, and the unprecedented centralization of power. In recent years, Democrats have become increasingly militant in their efforts to shake down corporate America. For the most part, big business has been willing to participate in the Democratic Party’s protection racket in order to prevent Congress and the President from doing something worse. The examples are endless. The President extorted insurance and pharmaceutical companies as part of his health care reform initiative; Democrats in Congress extorted America’s financial sector under the auspices of financial sector reform; and radical environmentalists and their friends in Congress have transformed big oil into a cash cow to fund global warming hysteria. In each case companies like Chrysler, Royal Dutch Shell, and General Electric have either directly financed attacks on our nation’s freedom or agreed not to oppose the attacks in order to maintain favor with their rulers. The White House attack against Koch is an assault on American liberty. It sends a chilling message to conservative philanthropists concerned about the future of our nation and it signals that, as far as the White House is concerned, equal protection under the law only applies to the President’s supporters. The fact that the White House has chosen this path suggests that President Obama is leading a paranoid, insecure, and dictatorial Administration – one that is in desperate need of better Congressional oversight.
07.28.2010	Representatives Devin Nunes (R-CA), Paul Ryan (R-WI), John Shimkus (R-IL), Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Rob Bishop (R-UT) today introduced legislation that will reduce U.S. dependence on foreign energy, provide a cleaner environment, and put Americans to work. The bill titled “A Roadmap for America’s Energy Future” uses untapped energy resources throughout our nation to bridge the gap between current energy consumption and our nation’s long-term goal of transitioning to renewable and advanced energy alternatives. “Congress must take action and provide real incentives for the development of the kinds of energy consumed by the American people – namely fossil fuels. To do otherwise would assure high energy prices as well as the flight of American businesses to foreign shores. At the same time, we have a responsibility to promote alternatives that will sustain us in the long-term. That’s what the Energy Roadmap accomplishes,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. In the last 25 years, U.S. energy needs have grown dramatically while supplies have remained relatively static. In the past decade alone, energy demand increased by more than 12 percent while domestic production increased by less than one percent. Today, nearly half of the U.S. trade deficit is related to imported energy. “The Energy Roadmap is a common sense all-of-the-above approach that promotes American-made energy and American jobs. It offers a bold new path that provides additional support for renewable energy, while strengthening its competitiveness and reducing our dependence on government. The Energy Roadmap will help unlock the vast potential of our natural resources, promote a responsible transition to renewable energy resources, and reduce our reliance on foreign oil,” said Rep. Paul Ryan. The Energy Roadmap seeks to restore confidence in off-shore drilling by establishing a 9/11 style commission to investigate the Deepwater Horizon disaster. It then expands oil production in the far reaches of northern Alaska, off our shores, and in the lower 48 states through oil shale deposits. “Due to misguided government policies, many of our domestic energy resources sit idle, untapped and underutilized. The United States has an estimated two trillion barrels of oil shale. This is more than seven times the amount of crude oil reserves found in Saudi Arabia, and is enough to meet current U.S. demand for over 200 years. Tapping this homegrown resource would not only help address a huge component of our domestic energy needs, but would provide thousands of new jobs throughout the West- a region currently suffering from the highest comprehensive unemployment in the country. With soaring unemployment and rising energy costs, it’s time we put Americans back to work and domestic resources into play. That is precisely what the Energy Roadmap does,” said Rep. Rob Bishop. To address long-term energy needs, the Energy Roadmap leverages lease and royalty revenue associated with new fossil fuel development to fund alternative and advanced energy technologies. The result will be historic and unprecedented investments that are protected from special interests and political favoritism through an innovative and market oriented reverse auction program. “Our nation is at an energy crossroads, and we need to look at every option available to us in order to achieve energy independence. I am particularly pleased that the all-of-the-above legislation introduced by Representative Nunes recognizes the vital role that nuclear energy will play in our nation’s future, and I am glad to have an opportunity to work with him to find real, workable solutions to the energy challenges that we face,” said Rep. Mike Simpson. The Energy Roadmap also expands carbon-free nuclear power production and allows nuclear waste to be recycled, reducing that waste by 96%. And it allows the military to transition to liquid coal rather than oil based fuels, assuring our Armed Forces access to a reliable domestic fuel source. “The Illinois basin coal reserves contain more BTUs of energy than the oil reserves of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait combined. We can and must harness that energy. Coal-to-liquid technology exists and should be used to reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil. We cannot totally remove liquid fuel from our energy diet overnight, but introducing alternatives is a must. I am proud to support this comprehensive energy roadmap,” said Rep. John Shimkus.
07.27.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes today introduced legislation to revamp California’s water infrastructure; a bill designed to meet the state’s current needs and provide water security for the future. Rep. Nunes’ legislation will reform the Central Valley Project Improvement Act to ensure the law attains measurable goals. It fast-tracks construction of over thirty water circulation and supply projects to ease water transfers and increase supply. The act repeals the San Joaquin River Settlement and refocuses efforts on a more financially feasible and environmentally sustainable warm water fishery. It also streamlines environmental review and construction of new surface storage projects. Finally, to address the challenge presented by endless environmental lawsuits, this proposal includes a new judicial review of legal action that will narrow the time frame and jurisdiction for court challenges. “Congress must act to bring balance back to California water policy and provide a permanent solution to the Golden States’ water woes, this legislation is designed to do exactly that” said Rep. Nunes. Since the early 1900’s, San Joaquin Valley farmers have delivered a bounty to the nation and the world - without water supplies this bounty is at risk. Despite this fact, federal legislators continue to enact laws that take billions of gallons of water from valley residents. These water diversions, made in the name of the environment, lack scientific grounding and simply perpetuate the incremental destruction of farmland and rural communities. Environmental litigation and judicial and federal legislative re-allocations of water have created man-made water shortages that have had severe impacts on working Californians. It has been more than two years since Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Congress were asked to provide relief to water deprived communities in California. In that time there have been many promises made and no relief. San Joaquin Valley farmers received 45% of their contracted water for 2010 despite having reservoirs near or past flood stage and 140% of average snow pack. In any other year, farmers would have seen a full allocation of water but environmental regulations have prevented this from happening. “California residents are being denied access to water not because of a drought, but because the Democratic Congress has decided that a three inch minnow is more important than jobs in the San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Nunes.
06.23.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes today introduced legislation that will limit the unchecked Presidential power related to the designation of new national monuments. “A Congressional review of the National Monument designation process is long overdue and reforms are clearly needed to protect the public interest. The political exploitation of current law to impose draconian regulations on public lands and to lock up our nation’s vast natural resources must end,” said Rep. Nunes. Presidential power to establish National Monuments on federals lands flows from The Antiquities Act of 1906 – a law that was enacted in response to fears of the destruction and theft of U.S. archaeological sites and treasures. In the more than 100 years that has passed since its creation, the Act has been used on a much grander scale by both Democratic and Republican administrations. Today, there are 71 National Monuments located in 26 states, covering some 136 million acres. National Monument designations result in severe restrictions on public lands, resulting in economic devastation to surrounding communities that have historically relied on the resources yielded by these lands. "I have witnessed firsthand how devastating a politically driven monument designation can be to communities and individuals. In California, the timber industry has been driven to near extinction thanks largely to the actions of former President Bill Clinton,” said Rep. Nunes. President Clinton designated 5.9 million acres, including vast swaths of the Sierra and Sequoia National Forests, as protected monuments. The economic impact was swift and devastating with mill closures alone causing nearly 60,000 lost jobs. “The bill that I introduced today will improve The Antiquities Act by limiting the President’s unfettered discretion and ensuring a more inclusive designation process,” said Rep. Nunes. The Nunes legislation comes on the heels of a leaked Department of Interior memo, which detail an Obama Administration plan to designate or expand monuments in Arizona, California, Colorado, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Nevada, and Washington. If enacted, the bill would restore Congress’ authority over monument designations by requiring the legislative branch to approve new National Monuments within two years of establishment. Failing Congressional approval, new monuments would revert to their previous status. The bill would also ensure that any restrictions placed on public lands are narrowly tailored and essential to the proper care and management of the objects protected by a monument designation. The following organizations have agreed to support this bill: American Sheep Industry Association, Arizona Wool Growers Association, California Forestry Association, California Wool Growers Association, Colorado Wool Growers Association, Idaho Wool Growers Association, Independent Oil Producers Association, Montana Wool Growers Association, National Association of Counties, Public Lands Council, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, Nevada Cattlemen’s Association, Nevada Wool Growers Association, New Mexico Cattle Growers Association, New Mexico Federal Lands Council, New Mexico Wool Growers, Inc., Northern New Mexico Stockmen’s Association, Oregon Cattlemen’s Association, Oregon Sheep Growers Association, South Dakota Cattlemen’s Association, Texas Sheep & Goat Raisers Association, Utah Cattlemen’s Association, Utah Wool Growers Association, Washington State Sheep Producers, and Wyoming Wool Growers Association.
02.24.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes today called on the White House to go beyond the beltway in crafting health care reform legislation. The White House meeting, scheduled to take place tomorrow, currently includes a delegation from the House and Senate, as well as Obama Administration officials. However, there will be no representatives of state governments or U.S. territories, which will bear the brunt of health care reform costs. "The White House seems intent on excluding anyone who doesn’t reside inside the beltway from the health care reform debate,” Rep. Nunes said. Democrats first embarked on their top-down approach last year when they tried to rush legislation through Congress without public input. They ducked town hall meetings and held negotiations in secret. Now, under their new open approach to health care reform, they are excluding input from one of the most important elements of meaningful reform – state governments. Congressman Nunes is Chairman of the State Solutions Project, a group of Congressional Republicans working with reform-minded GOP governors and state legislators to fight Washington bureaucracy, inefficiency, and waste, and to promote better solutions to the challenges facing the American people. As part of his statement, Rep. Nunes released a letter to President Obama written by the Chair of the American Legislative Exchange Council’s (ALEC) Health Task Force. The letter, signed by both Democratic and Republican legislators from Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Washington. It is included below: February 24, 2010 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: Earlier this month, we learned of your call for a bipartisan summit so that our nation can move forward in solving our health care crisis. And now tomorrow, a select group of federal lawmakers will contribute their health reform vision to the national dialogue. However, we think you’re missing a critical element in this discussion—the ideas of thousands of state legislators. We know that any federal health care legislation will eventually rely on the states to implement, manage, and fund the reform effort. Many state legislators, like us, are also concerned about the effects that a proposed individual or employer mandate will have on our citizens and small businesses. We are disappointed that state legislators have not been involved in this effort and that you would not include state legislators in tomorrow’s meeting. That’s why we’re moving forward with a nationwide effort to ensure that the cornerstone of any state or federal health reform is the protection of patients’ rights. We are the sponsors of the Freedom of Choice in Health Care Act, an initiative by 36 states to protect our patients’ rights to pay directly for medical care, and to prohibit the government from fining our citizens for failing to purchase government-approved health insurance. This quickly-moving measure was recently passed with bipartisan support in houses of the Virginia and Tennessee legislatures, and will be put before Arizona voters in November. So while you discuss health reform solutions at Blair House tomorrow, we will pursue our own initiatives—not only to protect health care freedom, but to also reduce health costs; increase access to quality, affordable health insurance; and improve the quality of care. We know you share these goals, we believe that there are valuable lessons to be learned as state legislators move ahead with innovative health reform solutions, and we continue to hope that state legislators will be invited to participate as this process moves forward. Sincerely, Representative Linda Upmeyer Minority Whip, Iowa House District 12 Chair, ALEC’s HHS Task Force
02.17.2010	Congressman Devin Nunes today unveiled a new legislative package that will provide long-term water security to the people of California. The bill, titled the California Water Reliability Act, would immediately restore the flow of water to dry San Joaquin Valley communities while providing the infrastructure needed to deliver long-term water reliability for rural, urban, and environmental purposes. “We need a sensible approach to water policy in California. Infrastructure built in the middle of the last century cannot meet our long-term needs – particularly when radicals in the environmental movement are demanding ever increasing amounts of water for their own misguided purposes,” said Rep. Nunes. When the state and federal water projects were built over 40 years ago, more than half of the water was dedicated to satisfying the needs of communities throughout California, including San Joaquin Valley farms. This water made it possible for the largely arid State of California to grow into an economic powerhouse and spurred the development of the world’s most diverse and abundant farming region. Over time, lawsuits and the actions of liberal lawmakers in Congress have fundamentally changed the operation of California’s water projects by diverting large amounts of fresh water. This is most prominently exposed by the fact that more than 75% of the water that enters the Delta is now being wasted to the ocean in a vain effort to prop-up the faltering Delta ecosystem. The result of these changes is an artificial water shortage; one that Nunes has labeled a government-imposed drought. It has also vastly magnified the impact of periodic dry conditions that are part of life in the Golden State. “At some point, families and California communities will have to become the priority of our government again. New dams, new canals and a renewed commitment to serving the needs of the people are what we require. The California Water Reliability Act will deliver results while others continue to offer lip service,” said Nunes. The bill is both common sense and comprehensive. It will fast-track construction of a Delta bypass, as well as new surface water storage (including Temperance Flat) and a number of water circulation projects. In addition, the Nunes plan will rewrite the San Joaquin River Settlement to focus river restoration on a more financially feasible and environmentally sustainable warm water fishery. Finally, the plan will reform and improve the Central Valley Project Improvement Act to ensure the law attains measureable environmental goals. “We can and will have responsible environmental policies when the California Water Reliability Act becomes law. Radical environmentalists should never have been allowed to decide the terms under which water is allocated. Their record is clear. They take as much as they can get and come back for more. That’s why the San Joaquin River Settlement must be re-written – so that the eastside of the valley isn’t subjected to the same ongoing attack as farmers and communities on the Westside,” said Nunes. Congressman Nunes has been the leading advocate in Congress for restoring the flow of water to communities devastated by the government-imposed drought. For more information on this issue as well as Congressman Nunes’ solution – the California Water Reliability Act – visit www.nunes.house.gov.
02.01.2010	Today, President Barack Obama released his 2011 federal budget. At a total cost of $3.8 trillion, the Obama plan adds $1.6 trillion to the national debt. This reckless level of deficit spending comes despite $2 trillion in proposed tax increases. In his budget, the President has shelved the Success Dam seismic safety project. For 2011, the project will receive only $500,000 – barely enough to keep it on life support. “Shelving the replacement of Success Dam is irresponsible. The President is holding residents hostage and endangering the community below the dam. This action also extends the length of time the Army Corps of Engineers will have to keep the lake level low, significantly reducing area water supplies and increasing the risk of flood damage.” The President’s budget does nothing to address valley water shortages. It ignores Delta pumping restrictions and instead provides $72 million to help restore a non-existent salmon run on the San Joaquin River. Implementation of the San Joaquin River Settlement, which should be suspended in light of the region’s water crisis, will compound regional water shortages by taking up to 500,000 acre feet of water from the east-side of the valley. “This is a job killing, deficit exploding budget. The President is not only ignoring our water crisis but is promoting policies that make the crisis worse.”
09.22.2009	This evening, Senate Democrats – led by Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer – defeated a California water amendment offered by South Carolina Senator Jim DeMint. The amendment was simple. It would have prevented the federal government from spending any money to implement biological decisions that are denying Californians access to essential water supplies from the Delta. This prohibition would have lasted one year. “Despite the clear suffering of people in California, our state’s senior Senator blocked passage of urgently needed relief. She even went so far as to compare our efforts to the attack on Pearl Harbor,” said Nunes. The defeat of the DeMint amendment today is shameful. The fact that our own Senators are responsible adds insult to injury,” said Rep. Nunes. California’s Senators opposed the amendment, despite having voted for a similar provision in 2003. That provision, related to the silvery minnow, was meant to protect the water supplies of New Mexicans. It suspended the Endangered Species Act for two years. In sharp contrast, Senator DeMint’s effort on behalf of Californians was limited to one year. During the debate, Senator Feinstein eluded to the complex nature of the California water debate. She expressed dismay that a South Carolina Senator would meddle in California’s affairs and pointed to a $750,000 earmark she is supporting to study the California water crisis. Senator DeMint countered that the issue was national in scope and that our nation’s food supply was in jeopardy. He further argued that farmers needed immediate relief. “How can anyone purporting to represent the interests of Californians not know that our state’s farmers and rural communities need immediate relief? Studies are not the answer,” said Rep. Nunes. “And while infrastructure is urgently needed, including a canal to bypass the Delta, these projects are years from completion and have not even begun despite years of promises. The only real answer is a temporary waiver to the ESA or some other provision, such as the one before the Senate today, which restores the flow of water until alternatives are realized. Californians should be very disappointed in the outcome today. But they should be reassured that some in Congress are working on their behalf – including the Senator from South Carolina,” said Rep. Nunes.
08.25.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes today announced that he will be speaking at the Tea Party Patriots’ march in Sacramento on Friday – an event expected to draw more than 30,000. “The theme of this march is “eco-regulation” and, more specifically, how radical environmentalists are contributing to the destruction of our way of life. As the Representative of an area under siege by laws and regulations written by environmentalists and their allies in government, I am particularly aware of the hardship this movement is causing,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Congressman Nunes has been a leading critic of radical environmentalism and its impact on the San Joaquin Valley. He has fought to reform the Endangered Species Act, and has authored legislation that would make significant changes to resource management in the United States. Reforms are urgently needed because timber, oil, natural gas, water and other domestic resources have been locked-up by laws, regulations and lawsuits spearheaded by environmental radicals. “We have entire communities that are being systematically destroyed at the hands of trial lawyers, judges and lawmakers – who are all at the beckon call of these radicals. Just ask anyone who once worked in California’s timber industry. In addition, farmers and rural communities have long been under assault by these groups. Today, they are suffering unprecedented levels of water depravation which will be the death blow in many San Joaquin communities,” said Rep. Nunes.
08.20.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes today issued the following statement following a meeting with concerned citizens at Clovis East High School, which featured a discussion of health care reform legislation. “I am very pleased that so many people were able to join me this morning to learn about the health reform legislation moving through Congress. I expected to hear from people representing the entire political spectrum and I did. Liberals, conservatives, and independent voters joined medical professionals from across the valley in a very civil but very impassioned forum. It was a great success and a model for civil discourse. I started today’s event by making clear my opposition to the current health reform bill – H.R. 3200. I oppose the bill because it takes choice away from Americans; it takes control away from patients and doctors; and it vastly expands government power and spending. In addition, as a Congressman responsible for advocating on behalf of a large number of low-income Americans, I have a heightened interest in and concern for Medicaid beneficiaries. Patients served by this government-run program have no meaningful choices when it comes to their own health care and are experiencing nothing less than second class medicine today. It is a travesty that our government can claim to be compassionate while trapping millions of Americans in a health system that has outcomes far worse than privately insured Americans – outcomes that include unnecessarily high mortality rates. It is potentially an even greater tragedy that some in Congress haven’t learned their lesson about government-run health programs and are trying to create a new one. While I strongly oppose H.R. 3200 or any effort to create a new government health program, I do believe that Congress needs to pass health care reforms. Members of Congress, including myself, have a responsibility to do more than say ‘no’ to a bad plan – we need to have a plan and our ideas should be in writing. I do have a plan and it’s a comprehensive alternative that offers universal access to health care without bankrupting our nation or depriving the American people of choice. In fact, my bill, authored jointly by Paul Ryan (Wisconsin) and Senators Tom Coburn (Oklahoma) and Richard Burr (North Carolina) is all about choice – its title is the Patients’ Choice Act and it is available on my website for public inspection and comment. In closing, I want to express my appreciation to the people who took the time to learn about H.R. 3200 today. It is essential that the public understand the reforms that are likely to become law,” said Rep. Devin Nunes.
08.18.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes announced the details of his upcoming health care reform meeting. “The American people deserve to be heard and they have a right to know what Congress is doing. That’s what the meeting I have planned for Thursday is about. We will explain the current reform bill and answer questions,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. Event Details: Healthcare Legislation Review August 20, 2009 - 8 AM—10 AM Clovis East High School 2940 Leonard Ave., Clovis, CA 93619 Clovis East High School is located approximately 2 miles east of Clovis Avenue off of East Ashlan Avenue. The event will be held in the “Lecture Hall” adjacent to the library. Parking is available on Donner Avenue or in lots accessed from Donner Avenue. From East Ashlan Avenue turn North on DeWolf Avenue to access Donner Avenue.
07.22.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes commented today on the defeat of his water resolution on the House Floor. “The failure of Congress to act on California’s water crisis has damaged the institution’s reputation and left the people of California suffering. My resolution, defeated today by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her Democratic majority, would have ordered an immediate vote on HR 3105 – a bill that would have returned water supplies to California residents by ending pumping restrictions,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressman Nunes’ HR 3105, the Turn on the Pumps Act, would have returned Delta pumps to normal operations. Pumping restrictions currently imposed on California’s state and federal water projects have prevented water transfers from the Delta. These transfers are essential to farms and small communities in Central California and also provide drinking water for large urban centers in Southern California. It is noteworthy that, despite the claims of bi-partisan support for returning Delta pumping to normal operations, not a single California Democrat supported the Nunes bill on the House Floor today.
07.15.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes reacted to the anticipated House passage of the Energy and Water Appropriations bill. “Today’s action is not progress, it is politics. There are a lot of people in public office searching for a public relations victory and they hope this will buy them time. But the people deserve to know the truth and the truth is that this action will not ease our region’s suffering,” said Rep. Nunes. The bill before the House today does not address the biological decisions that are denying Californians south of the Delta access to water. Congressman Nunes offered three amendments during the Rules Committee hearing on Tuesday. The amendments would have given meaningful relief to California residents by immediately restoring the flow of water. Each of the amendments were struck down on a party-line vote in committee, preventing debate on the House Floor. “One of the amendments Democrats killed on Tuesday was identical to language approved by House Democrats and Republicans in 2003. That language dealt with New Mexico’s silvery minnow – which looks nearly identical to the delta smelt. I have challenged my Democratic colleagues on this matter and demanded to know what has changed since 2003,” said Rep. Nunes. Delta pumping has been used as a scapegoat for a number of complex environmental problems over many years. The delta smelt, steelhead, salmon and killer whale are among the species listed threatened or endangered due to pumping activity. In response to several flawed biological decisions, water supplies for residents south of the Delta have been curtailed over-time. Mandatory environmental flows currently account for more than 50% of the overall water supply originating from Northern California – water that once helped to sustain Central Valley communities, farms and millions of Californians south of the Delta. “The drought Californians are suffering is a drought of leadership – a shortage of the political courage necessary to relieve the suffering of communities across our state,” said Rep. Nunes.
07.07.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes reacted to the failure of Democratic leaders to support his water amendment to the 2010 Energy and Water spending bill. “For those who doubt the validity of my concerns about the Democratic Party – tonight’s vote offers even more insight. At this point, it should be clear to everyone that the American people are no longer the constituents of Democrats in Congress. People and communities have been replaced by a parade of extreme environmental activists and their misguided causes,” said Rep. Nunes. During Tuesday’s late night committee meeting, the House Appropriations Committee voted 25 to 33 to kill an amendment that would have restored water deliveries to parched San Joaquin Valley communities. Only three of thirty-seven Democrats broke ranks and joined Republicans in support of the Nunes amendment. Passage of the amendment would have put on hold biological decisions that have shut down delta pumps – creating dust-bowl like conditions in the San Joaquin Valley. The Congressional injunction would have given Congress time to implement a more permanent solution. 33 “NO” Votes David Obey (D-Wisconsin) John Murtha (D- Pennsylvania) Norman Dicks (D-Washington) Alan Mollohan (D-West Virginia) Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) Peter Visclosky (D-Indiana) Nita Lowey (D-New York) Jose Serrano (D-New York) Rosa DeLauro (D-Connecticut) James Moran (D-Virginia) John Olver (D-Massachusetts) Ed Pastor (D-Arizona) David Price (D-North Carolina) Patrick Kennedy (D-Rhode Island) Maurice Hinchey (D-New York) Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-California) Sam Farr (D-California) Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-Illinois) Carolyn Kilpatrick (D-Michigan) Allen Boyd (D-Florida) Chaka Fattah (D-Pennsylvania) Steven Rothman (D-New Jersey) Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia) Marion Berry (D-Arkansas) Barbara Lee (D-California) Adam Schiff (D-California) Michael Honda (D-California) Betty McCollum (D-Minnesota) Steve Israel (D-New York) Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) Ben Chandler (D-Kentucky) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Florida) Ciro Rodriguez (D-Texas) Lincoln Davis (D-Tennessee) 25 “YES” Votes: C.A. Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) John Salazar (D-Colorado) Chet Edwards (D-Texas) Jerry Lewis (R-California) Bill Young (R-Florida) Frank Wolf (R-Virginia) Jack Kingston (R-Georgia) Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-New Jersey) Todd Tiahrt (R-Kansas) Zack Wamp (R-Tennessee) Tom Latham (R-Iowa) Robert Aderholt (R-Alabama) Jo Ann Emerson (R-Missouri) Kay Granger (R-Texas) Michael Simpson (R-Idaho) John Culberson (R-Texas) Mark Kirk (R-Illinois) Ander Crenshaw (R-Florida) Dennis Rehberg (R-Montana) John Carter (R-Texas) Rodney Alexander (R-Louisiana) Ken Calvert (R-California) Jo Bonner (R-Alabama) Steven LaTourette (R-Ohio) Tom Cole (R-Oklahoma)
06.25.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes today commented on last night’s House Rules Committee decision to block his amendment to alleviate the man-made drought. The Nunes amendment defeated in the Rules Committee last night would have banned federal funds from being used to implement biological decisions that have resulted in a man-made drought in California. The unprecedented vote to block the amendment came despite the fact that the Nunes amendment was in compliance with House Rules and within the confines of historic precedent. “The hypocrisy of this situation is that the Democratic majority champions the working family but backs the radical environmentalists instead. For the San Joaquin Valley, the majority in this House has chosen fish over working families,” said Nunes. “What we are witnessing, is the greatest elected assembly in the history of the world starving its own citizens of water, acting like a despot, who tortures the innocent just to stay in power. And make no mistake, raw power is what we are witnessing. Power that injures and wounds, exercised at highest levels of government, straight from the Obama White House and the Democratic leadership in the Congress. They will say and do anything to keep hold of the reins of power. And their victims are my constituents, the people of the San Joaquin Valley, who have done nothing to deserve such cruelty at the hands of the government,” said Nunes.
06.18.2009	Congressman Nunes today commented on the failure of the House to pass his amendment to the Commerce-Justice-State spending bill – an amendment that would have prevented the Obama Administration from diverting as much as 500,000 acre feet of water from dry San Joaquin Valley communities. “Two hundred and eight of my House colleagues – including 37 Democrats – voted in favor of the people who live and work in the San Joaquin Valley. However, Speaker Pelosi and her lieutenant Rep. George Miller were able to rally the vast majority of the Democratic rank and file members to oppose my amendment. They continue to prioritize fish at the expense of California families,” said Rep. Nunes. It has been 629 days since Congressman Nunes first asked Democrat Congressional leaders to respond to the water crisis facing California. Despite the clear evidence of suffering, un-paralleled unemployment rates and the destruction of San Joaquin Valley communities, no assistance has been offered. Indeed, in a recent trip to California the Secretary of Interior specifically avoided visiting the impacted region. “It’s time to ask the Speaker ‘how many studies do you need? How many starving families and devastated communities will it take to get your attention?’ We need Congress to do its job. This government is failing to uphold its Constitutional oath to the people and I will not stop fighting until the voices of my constituents are heard,” said Rep. Nunes. The Nunes amendment to the Commerce-Justice-State appropriations bill would have deprived the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) the necessary funding to implement a recent biological opinion that will prevent San Joaquin Valley communities’ from accessing dwindling water supplies. According to NMFS, valley water use is contributing to declines in delta smelt, salmon, sturgeon and killer whales. However, the agency failed to comply with public comment rules and did not conduct an Environmental Impact Study as required by the Endangered Species Act. Valley water users have sued the federal government to overturn the decision in court.
06.17.2009	Congressman Nunes today commented on the failure of Democrat leaders to support passage of an amendment that would suspend a recent Obama Administration ruling ordering the diversion of as much as 500,000 acre feet of water from dry San Joaquin Valley communities. “Environmentalists are tripping over themselves to preserve every species that crawls, squirms, swims or flies but they are content to let humans die. And now they have a government that agrees with them. This Congress and our President have chosen fish over people in my state,” said Rep. Devin Nunes. It has been 628 days since Congressman Nunes first asked Democrat Congressional leaders to respond to the water crisis facing California. Despite the clear evidence of suffering, un-paralleled unemployment rates and the looming destruction of San Joaquin Valley communities, no assistance has been offered. Indeed, in a recent trip to California the Secretary of Interior specifically avoided visiting the impacted region. “It’s time to ask the Speaker ‘how many studies do you need? How many starving families and devastated communities will it take to get your attention?’ We need Congress to do its job. This government is failing to uphold its Constitutional oath to the people and I will not stop fighting until the voices of my constituents are heard,” said Rep. Nunes. The Nunes amendment to the Commerce-Justice-State appropriations bill would deprive the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) the necessary funding to implement a recent biological opinion that will deprive dry San Joaquin Valley communities’ access to dwindling water supplies. According to NMFS, valley water use is contributing to declines in delta smelt, salmon, sturgeon and killer whales. However, the agency failed to comply with public comment rules and did not conduct and Environmental Impact Study as required by the Endangered Species Act. Valley water users are suing the federal government to overturn the decision in court.
06.04.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes announced his opposition to a new rule published by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) that orders a major reallocation of California’s dwindling water supply. The Rule, released earlier today in Washington DC, is premised on the belief that the operation of both the federal and state water projects are contributing to the possible extinction of salmon, sturgeon, southern resident killer whale, and steelhead. “Despite the serious crisis facing our state, today the Obama Administration announced a new biological opinion that will end water deliveries in California – laying waste to billions of dollars worth of infrastructure and starving the state of water,” said Rep. Nunes. “The Obama Administration and the Democratic leadership of this Congress have totally disregarded the suffering of our country’s largest farming community. It has been tragic to witness,” said Nunes. Congressman Nunes has repeatedly called for intervention by Congress and the White House to alleviate the suffering in the San Joaquin Valley (click here for more information). However, state and federal leaders have stood-by silent as entire communities have been devastated. In a briefing for Congressional offices held today, NMFS officials announced that water exports from the Delta would be reduced 330,000 acre feet as a result of the new biological opinion. This is above and beyond water reductions that have been mandated due to the Delta Smelt, as well as reductions on the East-side of the valley associated with the San Joaquin River Settlement Agreement. “President Obama and this Congress are allowing the diverse and agriculturally rich San Joaquin Valley to become a third world enclave in America. It is truly a disgrace,” said Rep. Nunes.
05.20.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes (R-CA) announced the introduction of The Patient’s Choice Act – a bill he has co-authored with Paul Ryan (R-WI) in the House, as well as Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC) in the Senate. The Patient’s Choice Act is the first bicameral Republican proposal that achieves universal healthcare while preserving the right of Americans to choose their doctors. The bill also permanently solves the budget challenges associated with Medicaid and brings quality and choice to low-income Americans for the first time. “Americans – residents of the most prosperous and powerful democracy on Earth - deserve access to affordable healthcare. They deserve to know that they will be covered if they get sick or suffer from chronic health conditions, and they deserve the security of knowing that a catastrophic health crisis will not result in a catastrophic financial crisis. The Patient’s Choice Act achieves these goals,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressional Democrats, with the support of the White House, have been moving forward with plans to create a government-run insurance program. The scheme, which became part of the 2010 Budget, would force Americans into a “public option” where benefits are controlled and rationed by Washington bureaucrats. In sharp contrast, the Patient’s Choice Act establishes state exchanges. These exchanges will offer one-stop shopping for Americans and will offer a host of different benefit options- benefits that are not controlled by Washington bureaucrats but are controlled by individuals. At the same time, the legislation prevents discrimination based on prior conditions and ensures affordable premiums for every American. “The President’s government-run health program would have the compassion of the Internal Revenue Service and the efficiency of the Department of Motor Vehicles. Vague as the plan currently is, it is premised on the idea that you can smother a fire by adding fuel to it. Make no mistake. That is exactly what a “public insurance option” is – fuel on the fire,” said Rep. Nunes. “The ‘public option’ will do nothing to improve the care received by low-income Americans and will simply trap more people in an unjust and substandard government-run health system. In sharp contrast, the Patient’s Choice Act will bring quality healthcare to every American,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressman Nunes and Congressman Ryan are both members of the House Budget Committee, of which Mr. Ryan is Ranking Member. They are also members of the Ways and Means subcommittee on Health. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Richard Burr (R-NC).
05.07.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes today issued the following statement concerning the ongoing California water crisis: “We need help and we need it immediately. This is the third letter I have sent to the President asking for federal recognition of the crisis faced by San Joaquin Valley communities. President Obama needs to respond and I implore my colleagues to insist he does so,” said Rep. Nunes. In his letter, which was also sent to Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Senator Dianne Feinstein, Congressman Nunes detailed the necessary actions that would relieve suffering in the San Joaquin. Support legislation to temporarily waive the Endangered Species Act in times of a declared emergency; Support efforts to direct the construction of a Delta conveyance project known as the Peripheral Canal; Support legislation to authorize the construction of new water storage projects; Expedite water transfers that are currently pending; Partner with Governor Schwarzenegger to temporarily reduce water allocations for wildlife refuges which can be done under existing authority; Partner with Governor Schwarzenegger to authorize and fund the construction of an intertie between the Delta Mendota Canal and the State Water Project and authorize and fund the construction of South Delta Operable Gates; Delay implementation of the San Joaquin River Settlement until the economic impacts of the current crisis can be mitigated and a plan can be implemented to recover lost water. View the letters here.
04.23.2009	Rep. Devin Nunes today made the following statement on the House Floor during consideration of H.R. 1145 – the National Water Research and Development Initiative Act: “Madame Speaker, To put it bluntly, the people of the San Joaquin Valley are experiencing an economic disaster the scope of which is unprecedented. In fact, it has surpassed the worse levels of the Great Depression. Indeed, over the past two years, I have pleaded with federal and state officials, and my colleagues in Congress to act to avoid this disaster. In January of 2008, I testified before the Water and Power Subcommittee and demanded that Congress overturn a court imposed drought in California. In February and again in June of 2008, I asked Governor Schwarzenegger and Interior Secretary Kempthorne to declare states of emergency and focus state and federal resources to develop new water supplies to avoid an economic disaster. In July of 2008, I again returned to the Water and Power Subcommittee to testify about the unfolding disaster and pleaded that the committee take action to increase the water supply. Despite my pleas, this Congress, our President and even the Governor of my home state, have done nothing. Unemployment in the San Joaquin Valley now averages close to 20%, with some communities nearing 50%. An economic catastrophe is not looming. For the people of the San Joaquin Valley – it is here and it is the direct result of government action – namely the use of precious water resources in an attempt to value fish over families. There is a solution to the poverty and economic havoc confronting the San Joaquin Valley – but it doesn’t come from a new study of an old problem. Relief won’t come from a long-winded stump speech, a chant at a water rally or an impassioned speech on this floor. No, my friends, relief comes from action – legislative action by this body. I have introduced a “no cost” bill that would provide immediate relief to suffering Californians. My colleagues might recall that I requested a provision be included in the massive economic stimulus packages this Congress enacted earlier this year. My requests were ignored. Just last week, Secretary of the Interior Salazar, announced $260 million in stimulus projects to address the water crisis in California, but none of these projects will mitigate the effects of the disaster in the San Joaquin Valley. My colleagues on the other side of the aisle should be outraged. They expressed outrage for the last administration’s alleged failure to deal with the consequences of Katrina, but they have said nothing about the current administration’s failure to undertake a single act to address this ongoing disaster. The folks in the San Joaquin Valley have had to resort to finding assistance from food banks. Just recently, after waiting two hours in line – Kristian Reyes, age 3 on the left and his brother Kelvin Reyes, age 5 – were turned away from a food bank. Let me make it extremely clear – we are not looking for a billion dollar bailout – we aren’t even asking for one single dollar. All we need is this Congress to move emergency legislation which would allow the delta pumps to return to historic export levels. Unfortunately, the underlying bill does nothing to resolve this crisis. Therefore, we have to resort to offering an Motion to Recommit that directs the President to account for the economic impacts of cutting off water to families and dedicating this precious resource to a three inch minnow called a Delta smelt. This is absolutely ridiculous. It is a national disgrace that the breadbasket of the world cannot feed the people that live and work there. As I have said in the past, a government that is unable to provide its citizens access to reliable water supplies has failed – we need to be part of the solution, not part of the problem. It is time to stop valuing fish over families. Pass the Motion to Recommit and send a message to the people of the San Joaquin Valley that at a minimum, you are willing to own up to the problem.”
04.17.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes called on Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to resign due to the Governor’s failure to respond to the ongoing California water crisis. “San Joaquin Valley communities are drying up and they are dying. Communities have withered away, families have been left with nothing and people are literally starving. The Governor’s remarks today were little more than lip service; a rehash of what he has said on the subject for years. By ducking the issue of Delta pumps, he demonstrated not only a total lack of understanding but a callous disregard for our communities. When a government can’t provide the people access to a reliable supply of water, it has failed. This government has utterly failed and Governor Schwarzenegger should resign from office.”
04.16.2009	Rep Devin Nunes released the following statement today concerning President Obama’s response to the California water crisis. “Radical environmentalists have declared war on the people of the San Joaquin Valley. Whether we accept the conflict or ignore it, war is being raged nonetheless. And the enemy is winning, thanks to the cozy relationship they enjoy with the Democratic Party. This political arrangement, whereby green activists control large portions of the Democratic Party’s agenda, has effectively neutered Democrat lawmakers when it comes to the California water crisis. Indeed, it is the reason Democrat Party leaders have refused to offer immediate solutions to the crisis. The special relationship between green activists and the Democratic Party is why Secretary Salazar’s offer to spend $260 million on useless water projects was entirely predictable. The Secretary has been boxed-in by radicals in the environmental movement. For Secretary Salazar to offer meaningful help, turning on the Delta pumps for example, he would have to exhibit a level of political courage that no longer exists in the Democratic Party. Predictably, he didn’t. Instead, he added insult to injury by flushing hundreds of millions of dollars into the ocean, along with our precious water. During his visit to California, the Secretary didn’t even bother to visit the devastated region of the Southern San Joaquin Valley. My message to President Obama, Secretary Salazar, and other leaders at the state and federal level has been consistent and it has been clear. Meaningful relief for the people of the San Joaquin Valley means restoring the flow of water today, not ten years from now. Meaningful relief means action today, not the promise of action at some distant point in the future. As I have said many times, the solutions are far less complicated than some would have you believe. Democratic leaders need to take whatever action is necessary to immediately restore Delta pumping to historic levels. They must expedite the construction of a canal to bypass the sensitive Delta eco-system and deliver long-term water security to our region. And finally, Democrats must re-visit the San Joaquin River settlement to prevent the Westside crisis from occurring on the Eastside of the valley. Don’t let community activists and Democrat leaders fool you. Ignore what they say and hold them accountable for what they do. Their words won’t deliver an ounce of water to our dry region. Only their actions, through legislation, can do that.”
03.25.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes reacted to passage of the San Joaquin River Settlement legislation (see video). “Today’s action by Congress represents a major setback for our region. The officials responsible will be remembered as architects of the economic and environmental catastrophe that follows,” said Rep. Nunes. The San Joaquin River Settlement legislation will force the diversion of 250,000 acre feet of surface water in order to accommodate the creation of a new salmon fishery – a fishery experts believe will not succeed. These diversions come at a time when many communities across the valley are already faced with critically low ground water supplies, water quality issues, as well as ongoing legal challenges threatening further losses. “The outlook is grim and there is no way to sugar coat the seriousness of the challenge before us. I expect 300,000 acres of farmland to be forced out of production thanks to this backwards approach to restoring the San Joaquin River. Additionally, this legislation will eliminate all hope for construction of Temperance Flat, a new reservoir urgently needed to address the ongoing ground water shortage throughout the San Joaquin Valley,” said Rep. Nunes. Nunes, the author of legislation in 2003 that authorized a new feasibility study for the construction of Temperance Flat, has long warned Friant and others involved in the San Joaquin River Settlement talks about the unintended consequences of their actions. He provided alternative restoration proposals, as well as options to recover water lost during restoration. None of Nunes’ suggestions were accepted by Friant or the Natural Resources Defense Council. “It is hard to imagine a more flawed approach than the one Congress has taken today. Greed, dishonesty and the vain hope of relief from lawsuits seemed to be the primary motivation for passage of this deal,” said Rep. Nunes.
03.11.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes reacted to the failure of House leaders to pass the San Joaquin River Settlement legislation, which was contained in Senate Bill 22 - a massive public lands package. “Today’s action by Congress represents a small victory for our region. However, House Democrat leaders clearly have the votes to pass the bill if they bring it up under normal rules. Instead, they attempted to force the bill through the House using a process normally reserved for bipartisan and non-controversial bills,” said Nunes. “There is nothing bipartisan or noncontroversial about taking water from our region, particularly when so many communities in the San Joaquin Valley are drying up.” The San Joaquin River Settlement legislation will force the diversion of 250,000 acre feet of surface water in order to accommodate the creation of a new salmon fishery – a fishery experts believe will not succeed. These diversions come at a time when many communities across the valley are already faced with critically low ground water supplies, water quality issues, as well as ongoing legal challenges threatening further losses. “It is hard to imagine a more flawed approach than the one Congress has taken today. Greed, dishonesty and the vain hope of relief from lawsuits seemed to be the primary motivation for passage of this deal,” said Rep. Nunes.
02.24.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes released the following statement following President Obama’s first address to Congress. “President Obama is our Chief Executive and our nation is in crisis. I am prepared to stand with him and am ready to support him if he is willing to recognize the disaster faced by the people of the San Joaquin Valley. Meaningful help from Washington has not come as a result of Congress’s rush to bail out Wall Street. It will not come from the recent expansion of government programs, despite being labeled as economic stimulus. And meaningful help will not be found in higher taxes levied on small businesses. The problems in the San Joaquin Valley are larger than the national economic crisis. Our communities are not simply in distress, they are dying. They have been denied access to water and are withering to extinction. For this reason, I believe any serious effort to address economic suffering in our nation must also address devastating water shortages in California. With more jobs at risk than those associated with the well connected Big Three Automakers and higher unemployment and poverty than anywhere in the nation, the people of the San Joaquin Valley will know when meaningful help arrives. We are in the midst of a national economic downturn and a housing crisis of unparalleled proportions. At the same time, San Joaquin Valley residents face a third year of a man-made drought; one that has driven rural communities to the brink. Now, as their parched communities suffer, valley residents are being told that existing water supplies are needed for fish, not people. Laws and regulations that have prioritized two inch minnows in the Bay Delta over families and communities in the San Joaquin Valley need to be suspended, re-examined and changed. If we don’t see a change in direction from Washington and a real commitment to our valley, nothing the President or Congress does will make any difference. I hope this change is coming and I look forward to working with the President and House leaders to bring meaningful assistance to the hardworking people of the San Joaquin Valley.”
02.13.2009	Representative Devin Nunes today released the following statement concerning House passage of nearly a trillion dollars in new government spending. “This legislation is not about creating jobs. If jobs were the priority of Democrats, the Speaker would have listened to my pleas for help in California. I asked for Democrat leaders to include a provision in this bill that would not have cost one penny. All it would have done is brought water to my district– saving 60,000 jobs in the San Joaquin Valley. Folks may ask, “Why didn’t the Democrats put this in?” It is because their radical friends in the environmental community have decided that two inch minnows are more important than people living and working in the San Joaquin Valley. Just listen to a California Deputy Attorney General, who moonlights as a radical environmentalist. He brushed off unemployment concerns and referred to my constituents as criminals. He said, "…What parent raises their child to be a farm worker? These kids are the least educated people in America…They turn to lives of crime. They go on welfare. They get into drug trafficking and they join gangs…" Democrats are spending $1 trillion but refuse to include one provision that costs no money and saves 60,000 jobs. This bill is an absolute insult to the people living and working in my district. It is a criminally negligent proposal and I urge my colleges to vote no.”
02.09.2009	Rep. Devin Nunes today released the following statement after speaking with valley residents during a gathering in Fresno. “I am deeply troubled by the power of an elite few to dictate the use of our region’s most precious resource – water. Whether it is due to misguided altruism, a disdain for growth, or a deep seeded belief in voodoo science, environmentalists have incrementally attacked the San Joaquin Valley’s water supply. Beyond the fundamental wrongness of choosing fish over people, environmentalists have taken their attack to valley residents in a very personal way. The insults hurled by these activists against farm workers were not an isolated occurrence. They are part of a pattern of hate speech used by environmentalists against anyone who stands in their way. For years, farmers have been publically attacked. Now, farm workers and San Joaquin Valley communities are in the cross hairs. The unfortunate reality is that these groups have powerful patrons in our government – patrons who are able to turn radical views into law. A testament to this fact is that Congress is prepared to take even more water from our dry region. The San Joaquin River Settlement Act, the brainchild of Friant and the NRDC, will pass in the coming weeks. It is possible to reverse the damage being done to our communities by working together – as a united San Joaquin Valley. Our message must be, “Turn on the pumps and turn off the rhetoric.” Text of Nunes remarks.
02.06.2009	Congressman Devin Nunes today transmitted a warning letter to federal and state leaders concerning California’s water crisis. The letter, which was sent to Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and President Barack Obama, calls for immediate action to alleviate human suffering associated with water shortages. “We are facing a crisis; a humanitarian disaster with enormous and long-term economic consequences. On the westside alone, water shortages will put out of work more Americans than the entire General Motors workforce. Rates of unemployment exceeding 40% are already decimating communities like Mendota. Yet we see no meaningful assistance from the state or federal government. Without action, the situation in the San Joaquin Valley will evolve from one of desperation to one of chaos,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressman Nunes’ letter was delivered to Governor Schwarzenegger’s office, as well as the White House, earlier today. Copies were also sent to key state and federal officials, including California’s U.S. Senators and the Secretary of Interior. See letter here.
01.28.2009	Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) released the following statement concerning House passage of H.R. 1, the Democrat leadership’s $850 billion stimulus bill: “The spending spree continues. This Congress has no concept of fiscal restraint. As families across America tighten their belts, Democrats in Congress are trying to slip the renovation of malls and the funding of art shows into a stimulus bill. It will have no long-term economic benefits,” said Rep. Nunes. “It is little more than a magician’s grab-bag, loaded with tricks and treats but totally lacking in substance,” said Rep. Nunes.
01.15.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes reacted to Senate passage of San Joaquin River Settlement legislation, which was included in the Omnibus Public Lands Act sponsored by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM). “Today’s action by the Senate is fiscally irresponsible. It represents an attack on our local economy during a period of national economic crisis and will deprive our region of precious surface water at a time of critical shortage,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressman Nunes, who represents the vast majority of Californian’s impacted by the San Joaquin River settlement, has worked tirelessly to present alternatives to Friant and the Natural Resources Defense Council. However, all alternatives were summarily dismissed and Democrat leaders have blocked amendments. United States Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK), who led opposition to the bill on the Senate floor, said the following: “How about $1 billion and counting on the San Joaquin River project to make sure we restore 500 salmon…How does that fit with what our priorities ought to be? How does that fit with any air of common sense?”
01.13.2009	On Monday, Congressman Devin Nunes met with Mexican President Felipe Calderon. The meeting with Speaker Pelosi and a small group of lawmakers was held to discuss a wide range of topics ranging from trade issues to the violence associated with drug cartels. “Organized crime is a problem that deeply affects both of our countries. It is a challenging problem for the Mexican government but it also has an enormous impact on the people of our communities. I appreciated the opportunity to hear directly from President Calderon on this important matter and fully support his efforts to combat Mexican drug cartels,” said Rep. Nunes. Rep. Nunes also expressed his heartfelt condolences to the Mexican soldiers and police officers who have given their lives to combat drug violence, which has spiked significantly in recent months.
01.09.2009	Today, Congressman Devin Nunes announced his appointment to serve as a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittees on Health and Trade. In addition, Mr. Nunes will serve as a Ways and Means representative on the Budget Committee. Committee assignments are determined by House Leaders at the beginning of each Congress. Rep. Nunes received his seat on the coveted Health and Trade Subcommittees only after declining an opportunity to become a Ways and Means Subcommittee Ranking Member. Ranking Members are senior Republican lawmakers who serve as leaders on their respective committees. There is a Ranking Republican Member on each House Committee, as well as each subcommittee. “My service on the Health Subcommittee will allow me greater participation in the healthcare debate at this critical time. Our challenges are very significant. We are witnessing the outcome of a system that has forced the centralization of power into the hands of insurance companies, government bureaucrats, and politicians. I want to return power to patients and medical professionals. I hope to positively impact reform legislation as a member of the Health Subcommittee,” said Rep. Nunes. Nunes has sought involvement in healthcare related issues since first being elected to Congress. During his first term, he was an original co-author of legislation establishing the Medicare prescription drug program. In addition, he has helped to secure funding for local hospitals and community clinics. In addition to his new assignment on the Health Subcommittee, Rep. Nunes will join the Subcommittee on Trade. Trade agreements have an enormous impact on the agriculturally rich San Joaquin Valley, which exports food and fiber throughout the world. Nunes’ assignment to serve as a Ways and Means representative on the Budget Committee comes at a time when our nation is facing a record $1.2 trillion deficit.
01.09.2009	Today, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) and House colleagues sent a letter to President-elect Barak Obama asking him to take a position concerning the crisis in the Middle East. “The President-elect has explained his silence on this issue by arguing the importance of maintaining “a single foreign policy.” However, as both Senator and President-elect, Mr. Obama has used his position to speak on foreign policy matters at home and abroad – including the recent terrorist bombings in Mumbai. His attempt to hide behind statesmanship is nothing more than a dodge. It sends a dangerous signal of weakness, not only our allies but even more troubling to our enemies,” said Rep. Nunes. “The people of Israel are being threatened and murdered by cowardly assailants who fire rockets while hiding behind innocent civilians. With this letter, my colleagues and I are sending a clear message. President-elect Obama must take a stand. We support the people of Israel and we see no room for ambiguity or moral equivocation during this crisis,” said Rep. Nunes. Congressman Nunes’ letter is attached and was signed by the following Members of Congress: Thaddeus McCotter (MI-11), Republican Policy Committee Chairman Tom Price (GA-06), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee Representative John Shimkus (IL-19) Scott Garrett (NJ-05) Representative Trent Franks (AZ-02) Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) Representative Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03) Representative Kenny Marchant (TX-24) Representative Louie Gohmert (TX-01) LETTER TEXT The Honorable Barack Obama President-Elect of the United States of America 451 6th St., NW Washington, DC 20001 Dear President-Elect: Twelve days ago, following months of militant terrorists’ rocket attacks into Israeli cities, Israel began military operations against Hamas targets in Gaza. Now, as a ground invasion is under way, the world looks to the United States and its leaders to guide them through this crisis. With our nation embroiled in a deadly conflict against the forces of terrorism, it is imperative that we demonstrate to the world our unwavering support for the people of Israel as they struggle against Hamas. Indeed, Israel is fighting an enemy committed to her destruction and we must not equivocate at this critical time. As the incoming President of the United States and leader of the free world, both our allies and adversaries have looked to you for your reaction to this crisis. Your silence has resulted in troubling speculation concerning the future of U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. Speculation has been further compounded by your explanation that our country must maintain a singular foreign policy. This comment suggests your views concerning the Gaza crisis differ from the Bush administration, a fact that must be highly alarming to the Israeli people who have enjoyed a close relationship with the United States during the Bush Presidency. As Members of Congress committed to maintaining strong ties with Israel, we believe it is essential that you take a stand on this issue as soon as possible and that you eliminate all ambiguity concerning the resolve of the United States to aid the Israeli people in their struggle against terrorism.
