12.20.2018	Co-Chairmen of the Georgia Caucus, U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerald Connolly (D-VA) released the following statements after the House passed H.R. 6129, the bi-partisan Georgia Support Act. The legislation reasserts the United States’ support for Georgia’s sovereignty and opposition to the forceful and illegal Russian invasion of Abkhazia and Tskhinivali region/South Ossetia. "The Republic of Georgia is a beacon of democracy in a part of the world that has long struggled to break the legacy of Soviet oppression," said Congressman Poe, the co-chair of the Congressional Georgia Caucus. "While Georgia successfully achieved independence in 1991, Moscow has persistently attempted to bully the small nation back into its orbit -- even going to the extent of invading and occupying a third of Georgia's territory. As Georgia's friend and ally we have a duty to help the Georgian people resist Russia's aggression. That is why I am proud to join my counterpart on the Georgia Caucus, Rep. Gerry Connolly, in introducing the Georgia Support Act. This important bill not only sends a message to the Kremlin that Congress opposes its violations of Georgian sovereignty and territorial integrity, but we are ready to back it up with action. By passing this bill, we are enhancing Georgia's ability to defend itself and taking steps to target Russians who commit brutal human rights atrocities against the Georgian people." "I am proud that the House has passed the Georgia Support Act, which strengthens the vital U.S.-Georgia partnership, a strategically important relationship in a critical part of the world,” said Congressman Connolly, co-chair of the Congressional Georgia Caucus. “This bill demonstrates the United States' robust support of Georgia's sovereignty, continued democratic development, and security, especially in the face of Russian aggression. The Georgia Support Act builds on previous efforts to bolster Georgia's territorial integrity by authorizing sanctions against those responsible for or complicit in human rights violations in Georgia's occupied territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia." The Georgia Support Act: • Calls for increased security assistance to Georgia to enhance the country’s deterrence, resilience, and self-defense. • Sanctions Russian actors in the occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia linked to serious human rights abuses. • Aids Georgia in defense against Russia’s cyber-enabled warfare by increasing U.S. cybersecurity cooperation with Georgia. • Requires the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to improve Georgia’s capabilities to combat Russian disinformation and propaganda campaigns. Congressmen Ted Poe and Gerald Connolly serve on of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
12.20.2018	Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Chairmen of the Georgia Caucus, issued the following statement on the election of ruling party candidate and former Georgian foreign minister, Salome Zurabishvili, as the first female president of Georgia: “Congratulations to our friends in the Republic of Georgia on the historic election of Salome Zurabishvili as their first female president,” said Reps. Poe and Connolly. “This election demonstrates the continued development of Georgia’s young democracy. Despite the challenges their country faces, Georgians have shown their strong commitment to freedom, the rule of law, and the peaceful transfer of power. We reiterate the concerns of election observers regarding the abuse of state resources for partisan campaigning and urge Georgian authorities to address these issues to demonstrate their commitment to fully fair and transparent elections. The United States, as a close ally of Georgia, stands ready to work with President Zurabishvili and to support her nation’s integration with the transatlantic community.”
11.28.2018	For Immediate Release November 28, 2018 Contact: Engel Press Office (202) 226-9103 DeeAnn Thigpen (Poe) (202) 225-6565 Margaret Anne Moore (McCaul) (202) 821-8846 Rebecca Bryant (Smith) (202) 225-8901 Lauren McDermott (Keating) (202) 225-3111 WASHINGTON— Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Bill Keating (D-MA) today applauded the House passage of their bipartisan bill, the Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act. This legislation would improve U.S. engagement in fragile and unstable countries to reduce violence and address the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. “Around the world, levels of violence are at a 25-year high, driving massive instability. This is a global security threat, as fragile, unstable states are breeding grounds for criminals and terrorists,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the House floor. “Over the years, we have learned a lot about what works to stabilize conflicts and prevent violence from breaking out. We need to update our government policies to implement those lessons. This bill does just that, by establishing an initiative to reduce fragility and violence that will align American policy and programs with best practices.” “Around the globe today, nations plagued by conflict and violence pose serious challenges for our interests abroad and security at home,” said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “Terrorists and rogue regimes have long exploited fragile states to operate beyond the rule of law and promote extremism. Meanwhile, the various departments and agencies of the U.S. government charged with conducting our foreign policy have responded to these challenges with ad hoc fixes that avoid addressing underlying causes of instability and lack interagency coordination and proper Congressional oversight. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will fix these mistakes by requiring coordinated long-term strategies presented to Congress that target the core cause of violence and instability in trouble nations around the world. Through a smarter, planned process, our diplomats, military, and USAID staff can use our foreign aid dollars more effectively and efficiently, instead of endless assistance programs that only apply triage to persistent conflicts. I thank Ranking Member Engel, Rep. Smith, and Rep. McCaul for their hard work on this important bill.” “Today, the House took an important step to reduce worldwide violence and improve international stability. Violence and brutal conflict costs the global economy over $14 trillion a year and creates environments where large-scale international responses are needed to stop the struggle and deliver humanitarian aid. This legislation directs USAID, the State Department, and the Defense Department to work with other relevant agencies in crafting an integrated strategy in a number of these ‘fragile states.’ The strategy would focus on preventing the total breakdown of government, while also denying terrorist groups the unstable, fertile territory from which they recruit,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “By proactively prioritizing the necessary resources and with our federal departments working in unison, we will be better positioned to eliminate terrorist safe havens, stimulate global stability, and avoid large-scale international interventions.” “Instability across the world continues to lead to the displacement of millions of people. In response to the unprecedented refugee crisis caused by the rise in conflict, famine and disease, the U.S. must be a leader in addressing the root causes of violence and fragility. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act is a significant step in bringing together defense, diplomatic, and development stakeholders to better tackle these complex challenges,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “As a senior Member of the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security Committees, it could not be clearer to me that to be safer here at home, we need to address the root causes of fragility that leave communities around the world vulnerable to conflict and extremism. That’s exactly what this bill does. It requires an interagency strategy and a pilot program so that our resources are not only better coordinated to have a greater impact, but so that we also learn as much as possible about how to best combat this problem,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “We have lost so many lives and expended so much on conflicts that don’t seem to ever get resolved. Addressing fragility brings us closer to the root causes of these conflicts and we owe it to our servicemen and women, to members of our foreign service, and to the American people to do that. Time and again, our research has shown that focusing on fragility will be a much more effective way of creating more sustainable peace and security around the world.” Background Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 68.5 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs the global economy $14.7 trillion a year (12.4% of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act charges the State Department, Defense Department, and USAID with designating at least 6 priority countries or regions and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those areas. The bill requires these departments and agencies to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and adapting programs based on results. The legislation is endorsed by: Alliance for Peacebuilding, American Friends Service Committee, Bread for the World, CARE, Carl Wilkens Fellows, Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC), Center on Conscience & War, Charity & Security Network, Chemonics, Church of the Brethren Office of Public Witness, Conciliation Resources, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd US Provinces, Cure Violence, Educators’ Institute for Human Rights, Foreign Policy 4 America, Franciscan Action Network, Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL), Future Without Violence, Global Communities, Global Water 2020, Humanity United Action, i-ACT, In Defense of Christians, Institute for Multi-Track Diplomacy, InterAction, International Alert, International Civil Society Action Network, International Crisis Group (ICG), International Rescue Committee, Jewish World Watch, Karuna Center for Peacebuilding, Mercy Corps, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, National Latino Evangelical Coalition, Never Again Coalition, Nuru International, Pax Christi International, Pax Christi USA, Peace Direct, PRBB Foundation, Saferworld, Search for Common Ground, STAND, Stop Genocide Now, United Church of Christ, Women for Afghan Women, World Relief, and World Vision. # # #
11.05.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), released the following statement regarding President Trump’s decision to restore sanctions on Iran. “President Trump's decision to restore all sanctions on Iran that had been removed under the terrible nuclear deal is to be applauded. We now know that despite the Obama Administration's attempts to appease the mullahs in Tehran, the regime continued to build and test nuclear-capable missiles, support global terrorism, and brutally oppress its own people,” said Congressman Poe. “Rewarding Iran's bad behavior with access to the global economy only enriched Iran's radical regime and its IRGC thugs to pursue their wicked ambitions. Applying a maximum pressure campaign going forward will deny the regime resources for its military and terrorist projects and ultimately force the mullahs to reconsider their malign activity to slow their own demise.” ###
10.25.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), released the following statement regarding the suspicious packages being mailed to various United States elected officials and citizens. “Any and all acts of political violence must be condemned. Those responsible for the mail bombs must face the long arm of the law and be prosecuted for these criminal assaults on American citizens and our political system. Justice must be harsh and swift,” said Congressman Poe. ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), applauded passage of the bipartisan Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act. This critical legislation, authored by Congressman Poe in the House, will now be sent to the president to be signed into law. It provides much-needed safety and health protections for Peace Corps volunteers abroad. The legislation is named in honor of former Peace Corps volunteers retired Congressman Sam Farr of California and Nick Castle, who at 23 lost his life volunteering in China after critical medical mistakes contributed to his death. “This legislation sends a message to all current and former Peace Corps volunteers that America stands with them. Our Peace Corps volunteers work day and night to serve America’s interest in over 60 countries. Their health and safety are in our hands, and we must not let them down,” said Congressman Poe. “The Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act will make sure that volunteers have access to qualified medical professionals in the host country, as well as enhancing medical care upon their return home. It will also extend protections for survivors of sexual assault. Bureaucracy has prevented volunteers from access to essential resources while serving our nation, but we are one step closer to further ensuring their health and safety. I applaud the Senate for swiftly passing this bill and sending it to the president’s desk.” More specifically, the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act builds upon the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act by: Requiring Peace Corps to provide prospective volunteers with critical information prior to deployment, including country-specific crime statistics and health risks. Requiring Peace Corps to provide volunteers with access to qualified medical doctors. Strengthening existing provisions ensuring volunteer protection from sexual assault and harassment, including extending the authority of the Sexual Assault Advisory Council. Enhancing access to health care for returned Peace Corps volunteers by granting them immediate access to the care they need and deserve. Providing further reforms to improve oversight, management, and efficiency of the Peace Corps. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), introduced a bill to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), extending the current legislation through the year 2019. Enacted in 1994, VAWA was created to improve criminal justice and community-based responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking in the United States. Since then, it has been expanded by Congress to include additional programs and services in response to sexual abuse, stalking, and human trafficking. Rep. Poe’s bill, H.R 6797, will ensure that those programs maintain their full authorization levels, which are otherwise slated to expire at the end of September 2018. “Standing up for victims is not a partisan issue,” said Congressman Poe. “We cannot allow the people that are being helped under the programs created and funded by VAWA now become victims of our own government. It is imperative that we reauthorize full funding to VAWA to ensure that victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence continue to have access to the lifesaving programs and resources they deserve.” Congressman Ted Poe is the founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Victims’ Rights Caucus. Prior to serving in Congress, Ted Poe served for 22 years as a criminal court judge in Houston where he garnered national media attention for his innovative sentences – dubbed “Poetic Justice.” Prior to that, he served for eight years in the Harris County District Attorney’s Office, where he became the chief felony prosecutor. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), introduced H. Res. 1064, the 12th Woman Resolution encouraging institutions of higher education to provide critical information and services to all victim’s of on-campus sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking, as well as inform them of their rights under federal and state law. “One in five women will be sexually assaulted while in college in the United States,” said Congressman Poe. “As a parent, you worry about a lot of things when you send your child off to college. This statistic should not be one of them. I met with five young women, who call themselves the 12th Woman, who were sexually assaulted on their college campus. They came to Congress and publicly told their heartbreaking stories on the steps of our Capitol, demanding change. This resolution is in support of their determination to end violence on our college campuses.” Congressman Ted Poe is the founder and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Victims’ Rights Caucus. Prior to serving in Congress, Ted Poe served for 22 years as a criminal court judge in Houston where he garnered national media attention for his innovative sentences – dubbed “Poetic Justice.” Prior to that, he served for eight years in the Harris County District Attorney’s Office, where he became the chief felony prosecutor. ###
09.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), issued the following statement regarding the Texas State Board of Education (SBOE) Social Studies TEKS Streamlining Work Group’s proposal to no longer include Alamo Commander, Lt. Col. William B. Travis’ “Victory or Death” letter in Texas school curriculum. The Work Group also proposed to remove the word “heroic” when describing those who sacrificed their lives at the Alamo. The SBOE is set to vote on final language Friday, September 14, 2018. Statement by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02): “‘If this call is neglected, I am determined to sustain myself as long as possible & die like a soldier who never forgets what is due to his own honor & that of his country— Victory or Death.’ These words are the most famous words in Texas history. They tell the story of who we are as Texans – defiant, loyal, and heroic. I cannot fathom any possible way that you can teach Texas history without teaching William B. Travis’ plea ‘To the People of Texas & all Americans in the World.’ The very notion is absurd. This letter is more than text on a piece of paper. It is at the very core of liberty and patriotism. Those are still values we hold in the highest regard in the Lone Star State. I have no doubt the people of Texas will stand in defiance, just as Lt. Col. Travis did and fight this committee’s ridiculous recommendation like only Texans can do. Victory or Death.” ###
09.06.2018	Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), introduced the Helping End Abusive Living Situations (HEALS) Act in the House. This bi-partisan piece of legislation will aid victims in their search for a home, as well as provide the required recovery resources. “As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor, I saw firsthand how difficult it was for victims of domestic abuse and sexual assault to find the resources necessary to recover and rebuild their lives," said Congressman Poe. "One of the most critical resources needed by all victims is a safe place to live. The journey to survivorship begins in a secure and stable home environment. In order to help provide this, I am introducing the Helping End Abusive Living Situations (HEALS) Act. This bill will ensure that survivors have the safe home they need and the services necessary to ensure their recovery.” “As a former law enforcement officer, I often saw survivors of domestic violence in desperate need of safe housing and support services. Victims of this abuse often face homelessness and housing insecurity at disproportionately higher rates than other demographics,” said Congressman O’Halleran. “This bipartisan legislation will ensure survivors receive safe, confidential accommodations and support resources as they recover from their traumatic experiences and transition into a new life.” The HEALS Act: Prioritizes funding for domestic violence victims’ transitional housing Increases flexibility in transitional housing programs in communities so that victims can get back on their feet Directs the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to research more housing options to support victims of domestic violence. Congressman Ted Poe serves as Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus. Congressman Tom O’Halleran serves on the Bipartisan Task Force to End Sexual Violence. ###
08.22.2018	Kingwood, TX– On Wednesday, August 22, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), hosted the 5th annual Honor Houston Heroes. The tribute to area veterans and active service members recognized those who have dedicated their lives to the service and protection of the United States. Over 200 guests packed the room and welcomed surprise guest, Vice President Mike Pence, who dropped by to express his gratitude for their service to our country. “Tonight is about letting you know that your community thanks you, supports you, and honors you,” said Rep. Poe. As a show of support to our veterans and active-duty service members, Vice President Mike Pence shared a greeting from President Trump. “To all of those who have served, from your commander in chief, greetings from President Donald Trump,” said the Vice President. Among those recognized were honored guests Navy Seal Marcus Luttrell and Lieutenant Michael Penn of the United States Navy. Lt. Michael Penn was presented with the Prisoner of War Medal, as well as the United States Congressional Patriot Award for his years of service. Both were recognized for their heroic acts of service and for honorably defending freedom and liberty. The night came to a close with special recognition of every guest who has served in the Armed Forces, past and present. For more photos from the event, please visit our Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/JudgeTedPoe/
08.06.2018	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, released the following statement in response to the United States sanctioning of the rogue Iranian regime. “Former President Barack Obama’s ill-advised 2015 nuclear deal was crafted behind closed doors, without the approval of Congress. Already, President Trump has taken distinct action to sanction the rogue Iranian regime, withdrawing from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran and sending a clear message that the era of appeasement for the mullahs’ threats and evil ambitions is over,” said Congressman Poe. “Today the United States took yet another step forward, restoring major sanctions previously suspended under the Iranian Nuclear Deal. Make no mistake, the United States will not negotiate with a terrorist regime who has continually suppressed its own people and failed, at every turn, to uphold its end of the agreement to end nuclear weapon development. To the people of Iran, I encourage you to continue the peaceful struggle for a secular, democratic, non-nuclear Iran- a free Iran.” Congressman Poe is the Subcommittee Chairman of Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed House Resolution 1039, the Support Privacy on the Internet Resolution, encouraging edge internet companies and data service providers to include data protections in their policies. “In recent months, the American people have stood by as our privacy is whittled away in the digital frontier, said Congressman Poe. “With a single click, the terms and conditions that we speedily read over strip away the right to privacy; privacy that is often assumed to be protected. Americans must be given the ability to “opt-in” rather than “opt-out” of data sharing practices by private companies. Internet companies and data service providers should adjust their policies to reflect this renewed sense of urgency for privacy and data protections. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. America must be the leader, not the follower, in protecting our constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy.” The text of the resolution can be found here. Congressman Ted Poe is a leader in fighting for Americans right to privacy as Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Fourth Amendment Caucus, and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) released the below statement following the return of U.S. soldiers remains from North Korea: “Today, the remains of 55 American heroes who died during the Korean War have been turned over to U.S. possession. Finally, we can give these American warriors a dignified burial and lay them to rest on American soil. The Korean war has been referred to throughout history as the forgotten war. After 60 years, these noble ones who gave their lives will be forgotten no more. This is a welcome step following the June 12th meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-Un, however, we must continue to strive towards our goal of complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization by North Korea.” Congressmen Ted Poe is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Al Green (D-TX), released the following statements after the House passage of the bipartisan Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act, as part of H.R. 5649, the Navy SEAL Chief Petty Officer William `Bill' Mulder (Ret.) Transition Improvement Act of 2018.The Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act ensures veterans continue to receive the housing stipends and supply fee payment waivers that they are entitled to receive when they face extended school closures due to natural disasters. Recent natural disasters have ravaged our towns, cities, and communities, leaving them in a state of turmoil and destruction. Homes, small businesses, and schools have all been impacted, and many remain closed today. When educational institutions close, our veterans are often displaced, and in many cases, forced to take online classes. This may be fine for the average student, but veteran’s education assistance is based upon their presence in a physical classroom. When they can no longer attend classes, based on circumstances outside of their physical control, they are only eligible for half of the available funding, leaving them scrambling to pay their rent and bills. The Department of Veterans Affairs currently has a 4-week waiver that would allow veterans to receive their full Basic Housing Allowance despite taking online courses after natural disasters. The Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act extends this waiver to cover the entire semester. "In the face of last year’s natural disasters, hundreds of veterans who admirably served our nation had their benefits suddenly stripped away. No veteran should suffer because of disaster forced school closures,” said Rep. Poe. “In Texas’s Second Congressional District, Lone Star College-Kingwood was stricken by Hurricane Harvey and left inaccessible. Veterans who seek to physically attend classes were forced online; the school was inaccessible for the foreseeable future until repairs could be made. This simple, yet necessary legislation provides relief to student veterans who are simply trying to continue their education, but are denied assistance based on circumstances outside of their control. I look forward to the Senate quickly taking up this important legislation.” “Natural disasters have the terrible power to damage, destroy, and forever take away the things we hold dear. For veterans in the Houston-area, few believed that list included their education benefits. Unfortunately, Hurricane Harvey proved them wrong,” said Rep. Green. “After the storm closed their schools, these veterans were forced to take online classes and their benefits were reduced. Veterans should never be penalized as a result of a disaster, and I was proud to join my colleague Congressman Poe in introducing the Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act. I am pleased that the House passed this necessary legislation and hope the Senate will act swiftly to send this bill to the President’s desk.” This legislation is endorsed by the Student Veterans of America. ###
07.23.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 23, 2018 Contact: Poe: Karina Erickson Karina.Erickson@mail.house.gov Washington, D.C. – Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Annie Kuster (D-NH), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) today introduced H.R. 6464, the bipartisan Hold Accountable and Lend Transparency (HALT) Campus Sexual Violence Act to strengthen prevention and enforcement efforts to combat campus sexual violence. “Graduating high school and going to college is an important rite of passage for most American teenagers. College offers the promise of more independence, new friends and new experiences. Universities often paint themselves in a glowing light – a safe place in which parents can safely entrust the well-being of their starry-eyed children. But the shocking reality is that 20 percent of young women and six percent of young men will be victims of sexual assault while attending college,” Rep. Poe said. “No student should fear for their safety while on a college campus. The Hold Accountable and Lend Transparency (HALT) on Campus Sexual Violence Act strengthens reporting requirements for university sexual assault cases and increases penalties for universities who fail to comply with civil rights requirements under Title IX. The culture of campus assault must be fundamentally changed. It’s time to shed light on this growing problem in America and hold universities accountable for the safety of our children.” “When parents drop off their children for their first year of college, we expect our institutions of higher learning to keep them safe. But that’s not the reality for 20 percent of young women, and six percent of the young men who are destined to become victims of sexual assault on campus,” Rep. Speier said. “To make matters worse, survivors are constantly told that they are responsible for their assault – from being penalized for so-called ‘code of ethics’ violations, like drinking at parties or going into other students’ dorm rooms, to being blamed for not fighting back. This kind of antiquated victim-blaming and -shaming is unacceptable. The HALT Act will ensure that our colleges and universities do everything they can to hold perpetrators accountable, rather than revictimize survivors.”“Our institutions of higher education must be held accountable for lax policies against sexual violence occurring on their campuses. Young women and men attending college deserve the opportunity to grow, learn, and thrive in a safe environment, free from fear,” Rep. Fitzpatrick said. “The HALT Act ensures that universities take every possible step to eradicate sexual violence on college campuses. With nearly one-in-five young women, and 6-percent of young men likely to experience some type of sexual violence on campus, Congress must act to keep our youth safe.” “No student should ever fear for their safety on the campus they call home,” Rep. Kuster said. “We continue to hear extremely alarming stories about the pervasiveness of sexual violence on campuses across the country, so it is critical that Congress take steps to address and end this outrageous epidemic. As co-chair of the Bipartisan Task Force to End Sexual Violence, I am proud to bring people together from both sides of the aisle to work toward solutions that will make our schools and communities safer. By strengthening prevention and enforcement efforts on college campuses, as well as improving coordination and public awareness, the Hold Accountable and Lend Transparency (HALT) on Campus Sexual Violence Act is a step in the right direction. I am pleased to join with my colleagues to help introduce this important legislation.” Under federal law, students are entitled to an educational environment free of sexual harassment and violence. However, the National Institute of Justice estimated that 63 percent of universities shirk their legal responsibilities when responding to these violent crimes. The HALT Act would strengthen prevention efforts and the enforcement of laws to combat campus sexual violence by: Allowing the U.S. Department of Education (ED) to issue financial penalties for noncompliance with civil rights requirements under Title IX; Increasing penalties for violating the Clery Act from $35,000 to $100,000; Creating a private right of action for students harmed by institutions that fail to meet campus safety requirements; Instituting biennial climate surveys; Requiring public disclosure of a list of colleges and universities under investigation for violations of Title IX and the Clery Act, the sanctions (if any) or findings issued pursuant to such investigations, and copies of all program reviews and resolution agreements entered into between a university, ED, and the Department of Justice; Increasing funding for Title IX and Clery investigators by $5 million; Expanding requirements for notifying and publicly posting students’ legal rights and universities’ obligations under Title IX; And creating an interagency task force to increase coordination between agencies and enhance investigations. The HALT Act is supported by the following organizations: National Women’s Law Center, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, Know Your IX, End Rape on Campus, Girls, Inc., Feminist Majority Foundation, California Coalition Against Sexual Assault (CALCASA), and the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence (CPEDV). A copy of the bill text is attached to this release. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, U.S. Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement after President Trump’s meeting with Russian President Putin: “It is good that the President met with the “Napoleon of Siberia” Putin. It is absolutely in the best interest of the United States to have open lines of communication. In the words of Winston Churchill, “ to jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war.” The President should have been more forceful in addressing Russian cyberwarfare and meddling in U.S. elections, Russian presence in Syria, support of Iran, and Russian aggression in Georgia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine,” said Congressman Poe. “The Russian bear is still in the woods and cannot be trusted.”
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Joe Kennedy III (D-MA)released the following statements after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2259, the bipartisan Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act. This critical legislation sends a message to all current and former Peace Corps Volunteers that America stands with them. H.R. 2259 provides much-needed protections for Peace Corps volunteers throughout every stage of their service: the onboarding process, while they are deployed abroad, and when they return home. “America’s Peace Corps Volunteers are our angels abroad. Unfortunately, we have failed those who serve America’s interests in faraway countries,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “The Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act ensures our volunteer’s safety and health are put first. This legislation will ensure that volunteers have access to qualified medical professionals (in-country) and extends protections for survivors of sexual assault. It also ensures that ill and/or injured volunteers do not have to spend months dealing with federal bureaucratic red tape just to receive the care they need and deserve. I look forward to the Senate moving quickly on this legislation.” Peace Corps Volunteers walk into foreign lands and remote neighborhoods to serve as American diplomats of democracy and decency,” said Congressman Kennedy. “With the passage of the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act, we can ensure that our nation’s protection of those Volunteers extends before their service begins and long after they have returned home. I am deeply grateful for Congressman Poe’s partnership on this bill and look forward to advancing it to the President’s desk.” More specifically, the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act builds upon the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act by: Requiring Peace Corps to provide prospective volunteers with critical information prior to deployment, including country-specific crime statistics and health risks. Requiring Peace Corps to provide volunteers with access to qualified medical doctors. Strengthening existing provisions ensuring volunteer protection from sexual assault and harassment, including extending the authority of the Sexual Assault Advisory Council. Enhancing access to health care for returned Peace Corps volunteers by granting them immediate access to the care they need and deserve. Providing further reforms to improve oversight, management, and efficiency of the Peace Corps. ###
06.26.2018	For Immediate Release June 26, 2018 The Protect European Energy Security Act directs executive branch to take concrete steps to stop development of Russian Gazprom Nord Stream 2 project WASHINGTON, D.C. – While world leaders and CEOs of global companies are in town for the 2018 World Gas Conference, U.S. Representatives Ted Poe (TX-02) and Denny Heck (WA-10) introduced the Protect European Energy Security Act. The bill requires the executive branch to explain the implications of the Russian Gazprom Nord Stream 2 project to the American people, and how the U.S. is actively resisting the construction of the pipeline. “Russia has a long history of using energy exports as a political tool to coerce European states into taking policy positions favorable to Moscow,” said Congressman Poe. “While the Kremlin often speaks about mutually beneficial energy partnerships with Europe, it frequently threatens to cut off energy supplies or manipulates prices for geopolitical gain. The development of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline will only strengthen Moscow’s energy leverage, by expanding the share of Russian gas on the German market. Cheap Russian gas may seem tempting, but it comes with serious strings attached that could undermine European cohesion and the North Atlantic alliance. The Protect European Energy Security Act shines a light on the vulnerabilities Nord Stream 2 creates and encourage our European allies to explore all potential alternatives to Russian gas.” “It’s no secret that Russian uses its natural resources as a tool to finance the destruction of Western democracies and consolidate power in the elite few who surround Putin,” Congressman Heck said. “In order to protect the United States and our allies across the Atlantic, we must do all we can to prevent the growth of Gazprom throughout Europe.” The Nord Stream 2 project is a $12 billion natural gas pipeline owned primarily by Gazprom, a Russian Federation-owned oil company with ties to Russian oligarchs and Vladimir Putin. The completion of the project would allow Russian exports to Germany to double, bypass the current route through Ukraine, thus eliminating transit fees. Then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said on January 27, 2018: “[T]he United States opposes the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. We see it as undermining Europe’s overall energy security and stability...” Tillerson further stated that the pipeline would allow Putin to use energy as a “political tool.” Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act of 2017 (P.L. 115-44) included a statement of policy of the United States that we would help our “allies and partners in Europe reduce their, especially natural gas, which the Government of the Russian Federation uses as a weapon to coerce, intimidate, and influence other countries.” It further states that the U.S. will “continue to oppose the Nord Stream 2 pipeline given its detrimental impacts on the European Union’s energy security, gas market development in Central and Eastern Europe, and energy reforms in Ukraine.” Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, and is chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade in the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Heck is a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence where he receives regular national security updates and serves the Financial Services Committee, which is responsible for sanctions enforcement. ### Press Contacts: Kati Sills (Heck): 202-226-4027 Karina Erickson (Poe): 202-225-6565
06.26.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Poe: Karina Erickson (202) 225-6565 Connolly: Jamie Smith (202)-225-1492 WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Co-Chairmen of the Georgia Caucus, U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerald Connolly (D-VA) released the following statements after the introduction of H.R. 6219, the bi-partisan Georgia Support Act. The legislation reasserts the United States’ support for Georgia’s sovereignty and opposition to the forceful and illegal Russian invasion of Abkhazia and Tskhinivali region/South Ossetia. “Georgia is a stalwart friend of the United States and serves as a regional model for democracy and liberty in a part of the world where government repression is the norm,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “The friendship between our two nations has been forged in blood, as Georgian troops fight and die alongside American forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. There is no doubt, the United States must do more to help Tbilisi continue its democratic trajectory and defend against the very real Russian threat to its territorial integrity and democratic institutions. As Co-Chairman of the Congressional Georgia Caucus, I am pleased to introduce this important legislation reaffirming America’s bi-partisan support for our friend and partner, Georgia.” “Georgia is a valued and strategic partner of the United States,” said Congressman Connolly. “The Georgia Support Act demonstrates the United States’ robust support of Georgia’s sovereignty, continued democratic development, and security, especially in the face of Russian aggression. In the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, Russia has violated Georgia’s territorial integrity and committed serious human rights abuses, including ongoing detentions and killings. This bill authorizes sanctions against those responsible for or complicit in human rights violations and builds on previous efforts to bolster Georgia’s territorial integrity.” The Georgia Support Act: Calls for increased security assistance to Georgia to enhance the country’s deterrence, resilience, and self-defense. Sanctions Russian actors in the occupied Georgian territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia linked to serious human rights abuses. Aids Georgia in defense against Russia’s cyber-enabled warfare by increasing U.S. cybersecurity cooperation with Georgia. Requires the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to improve Georgia’s capabilities to combat Russian disinformation and propaganda campaigns. Congressmen Ted Poe and Gerald Connolly serve on of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
06.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Karina Erickson 202-225-6565 Washington, D.C. ­— Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) received the Champion of Internet Innovation award from the Internet Infrastructure Coalition. Congressman Poe was one of two legislators recognized by the organization for promoting internet infrastructure in Congress. “I am pleased to receive this award. It is critical that Congress safeguards the rights of our citizens enshrined in the Constitution,” said Congressman Poe. “Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. As co-founder and co-chairman of the Fourth Amendment Caucus, I have continually fought to protect the privacy and security of Americans in the digital age.” “Congressman Poe has spent his legislative career protecting the Internet and the technologies that make our economy possible,” said Christian Dawson, Co-Founder and Executive Director of the i2Coalition. “We are proud to honor him with our 2018 Champion of Internet Freedom Award.” Internet Infrastructure Coalition (i2Coalition) is a leading voice for hosting companies, data centers, registrars and registries, software services providers, and related tech firms on both the domestic and international stages. It seeks to ensure that those who build the infrastructure of the Internet have a voice in global public policy. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 7, 2018) – The co-chairs of the Congressional Ports Caucus, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), today issued the following joint statement regarding the House passage of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018: “We are glad that once again the House has passed a Water Resources bill this year. This process is critical to authorize important projects and studies across the country. While we are pleased that the House has continued to increase appropriations for harbor maintenance, as co-chairs of the Congressional Ports Caucus we believe that Congress should use this bill to ensure the full use of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. It is long past time that the proceeds from this user fee go to their intended purpose: maintaining our nation’s harbors, and we are disappointed that language to make this key reform was removed from the bill. Ports move freight, they support American exports, and they drive our economy. It is critical that we make needed investments to modernize our harbors and ensure they remain competitive.” The Ports Caucus was developed to promote the importance of our nation’s ports with regard to our nation’s economy and the need to secure them by promoting dialogue between Congress, the Administration, relevant federal agencies, and industry officials. The more than 350 United States ports support 13.3 million jobs and account for $3.15 trillion in business activity to the economy. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement following the recall of Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Aaron Persky. Congressman Poe originally took to the floor of the House of Representatives to condemn Stanford Rapist Brock Turner and the light sentence issued by Judge Aaron Persky. “The days of Judge Aaron Persky’s reign of terror over victims of sex crimes are over,” saidCongressman Poe. “Judge Perky’s sentence of a mere six months (of which he only served three) for Stanford Rapist Brock Turner was revolting and is an insult to victims of rape across the United States. Judge Persky’s continued pattern of leniency towards athletes and special people in cases involving sex crimes only serves to demonstrate his lack of sensitivity toward victims of assault. When sexual assault occurs, the victim is sometimes given a life sentence of mental pain, anguish, and turmoil. Judge Persky seems to believe the equivalent punishment for the offender should be a mere apology. As a former Judge, I know that the system does not work if those who have the privilege of sitting on the bench abuse their position and fail to ensure that the punishment fits the crime. The people of California have spoken- not one more crime victim will be denied justice at the unjust hands of Aaron Perksy.” Congressman Ted Poe served 30 years as a former chief felony prosecutor and felony court Judge in Harris County, TX. Currently, Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee and is the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee Chairman on Terrorism. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Ted Poe (Texas) and Jim Costa (Calif.), co-founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus , and U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (Mo.) and Chris Coons (Del.), co-chairs of the Senate Law Enforcement Caucus, today introduced bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA). The VOCAA provides funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers that serve child victims and help law enforcement hold perpetrators accountable. Poe, Costa, Blunt, and Coons, introduced similar legislation, which was signed into law in 2014, to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Program through 2018. “Each year thousands of children are subjected to an unthinkable crime- child abuse,” said Poe. “Our Children Advocacy Centers, like the one in Houston, Texas, do important work to expedite the prosecution of offenders, reduce violent encounters, and improve safety in communities across the country. This legislation ensures that those who are advocating for and protecting our children from the atrocities of abuse have the necessary resources to do their job. We must do all that we can to make sure innocent young Americans are protected from evildoers who wish to do them harm.” “The Children Advocacy Centers in the San Joaquin Valley have been crucial in helping victims and survivors of child abuse heal,” said Costa. “The Victims of Child Abuse Act reauthorization bill builds on the demonstrated success of the multi-disciplinary Child Advocacy Center model, which will hopefully allow us to serve even more child abuse victims. Victims and survivors of child abuse are some of the most vulnerable in society. All of these kids deserve our care and support as they begin to heal.” “In 2017, our state’s 22 child advocacy centers provided a safe haven to more than 8,500 of Missouri’s most vulnerable children,” said Blunt. “This bipartisan bill will ensure Child Advocacy Centers and law enforcement have the resources they need to coordinate the investigation, treatment, and prosecution of child abuse cases. I urge my colleagues to support the vital role these centers play in keeping kids safe and holding abusers accountable by passing this bipartisan commonsense bill.” “When a child is the victim of physical or sexual abuse, his or her life will never be the same,” said Coons. “Seeking justice should be a part of the healing process – not a source of further trauma. Children’s Advocacy Centers provide a safe, supportive space for young victims and help law enforcement officers bring perpetrators to justice faster, more effectively, and at a lower cost. These facilities are a critical asset to law enforcement, to our criminal justice system, and, most importantly, to the children in our community who have been the victims of truly horrific crimes. I thank my colleagues for working with me to ensure they can continue to serve children in need.” Children’s Advocacy Centers employ a multi-disciplinary team of trained professionals to conduct forensic interviews of children who have been victims of abuse. These interviews are designed to be admissible in court while also preventing children from being re-traumatized by having to tell their accounts multiple times. Use of Children’s Advocacy Centers leads to faster criminal charging decisions in sexual abuse cases, increased felony prosecutions of child sexual abuse, and lower average per-case costs. In addition to Blunt and Coons, original Senate cosponsors include U.S. Senators Todd Young (Ind.), Shelley Moore Capito (W. Va.), Richard Burr (N.C.), Mike Rounds (S.D.), Deb Fischer (Neb.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Bob Casey (Pa.), and Mazie Hirono (Hawaii). And, in addition to Poe and Costa, original House cosponsors include Brian Fitzpatrick (Pa.), Bruce Poliquin (Maine), Anthony Brown (Md.), Eric Swalwell (Calif.), Luke Messer (Ind.), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Fla.), Ann Kuster (N.H.), Steve Cohen (Tenn.), Pramila Jayapal (Wash.), Ann Wagner (Mo.), Theodore Deutch (Fla.), and Debbie Dingell (Mich.). The bill has garnered widespread support from the nation’s top advocacy groups: “As the national association and accrediting body for Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs), National Children’s Alliance not only thanks Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Ted Poe, and Representative Jim Costa for their leadership in introducing the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2018, but also in leading the charge for CACs on Capitol Hill,” said Teresa Huizar, Executive Director, National Children’s Alliance. “This critical piece of legislation is the corner stone of the CAC movement, and is the only federal program solely dedicated to developing CACs and improving the services provided to kids that have been abused. By reauthorizing and updating the Act, Congress once again demonstrates it believes and values the effectiveness of the CAC model in helping abused children. We are proud to join Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Poe, and Representative Costa in championing this bill and urge its swift passage.” “While many efforts have improved children’s lives here in the United States, child abuse and neglect including the sexual abuse of children is still a national issue where more can and should be done,” said David LaBahn, President, National Association of Prosecuting Attorneys (APA). “On behalf of APA, we applaud Senators Blunt and Coons and Representatives Poe and Costa for their willingness to introduce legislation to re-authorize the Victims of Child Abuse (VOCA) act with additional funding and objectives which will assist our front-line prosecutors in holding those who choose to harm children accountable for their actions.” “The Victims of Child Abuse Act funds and supports Children’s Advocacy Centers, which are child-focused programs that employ a multidisciplinary team of trained professionals to work together efficiently and effectively to investigate, prosecute and treat child abuse,” said Bill Johnson, Executive Director, National Association of Police Organizations. “Children’s Advocacy Centers are vital to the protection and safety of abused children and are an important resource for law enforcement to ensure the perpetrators of these horrific crimes are held accountable and face justice. The Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act protects and enhances access to Children’s Advocacy Centers for children across the country and NAPO thanks Senators Roy Blunt and Chris Coons and Representatives Ted Poe and Jim Costa for their leadership in safeguarding these important programs.” “On behalf of more than 3,000 elected sheriffs nationwide, NSA is proud to support the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2018,” said Jonathan Thompson, Executive Director, National Sheriffs' Association. “This impactful legislation works in collaboration with our local law enforcement in order to better protect and secure our nation’s youth by providing funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers, which are invaluable in preventing more abuse and helping victims keep their privacy and dignity.” “The Children’s Advocacy Centers funded by the Victims of Child Abuse Act provide a safe environment to interview children who have been victimize by an abuser,” Chuck Canterbury, National President, Fraternal Order of Police. “The program helps law enforcement collect evidence without causing these children any additional trauma. These Centers have a proven track record of success, enabling our officers to better protect our children.” “The National District Attorneys Association applauds the introduction of the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act and the leadership of Senator Blunt, Senator Coons, Representative Poe, and Representative Costa on the issue,” said Nelson O. Bunn, Jr., Executive Director, National District Attorneys Association. “The reauthorization will continue to ensure resources are available for Children’s Advocacy Centers in support of the multidisciplinary team (MDT) model in which prosecutors and other practitioners are able to interview and support victims of child abuse in a safe environment. The legislation also provides for critical training and technical assistance to prosecutors in the field to investigate and prosecute these horrific cases.” The bill is also backed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the North East Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Midwest Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Western Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, and the Sergeants Benevolent Association.
05.21.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee, joined Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), who is a senior Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member on its Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, to introduced legislation requiring the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop and implement a strategy for removing unexploded ordnance in Syria and Iraq. The bill, titled the Unexploded Ordnance Removal Act, specifically requires the DOD, in concurrence with the Department of State (DOS), to provide assessments about threats posed by improvised explosive devices, landmines, and other ordnance to US strategic and military populations as well as the countries’ civilian populations. The lead Republican on the legislation is Congressman Ted Poe (TX). “As U.S. and allied forces liberated territory from ISIS control in Syria and Iraq, the retreating killers set thousands of mines and explosives to kill and maim not only our troops, but innocent people returning to their homes,” said Congressman Poe. “This evil practice has made entire towns and villages uninhabitable and stalled any chance of rebuilding thriving communities ISIS once sought to destroy. If we hope to ever be rid of ISIS’s terror, we must address the deadly traps it left behind. The Unexploded Ordnance Removal Act will direct the Pentagon to address this horrific remnant of war, allowing the Syrian and Iraqi people to return to their homes and begin rebuilding their lives. It’s time to rebuild the lives of those who have already suffered at the hands of ISIS and achieve the U.S. long-term goal of restoring peace and stability to this troubled part of the world and by extension, ensuring our own security.” “ISIS has lost over 90% of its territory in Syria and Iraq, and now we need to address the aftermath of their abusive control over the region,” said Congressman Keating. “One imminent focus of our attention needs to be unexploded ordnance there. The Syrian civil war and the rise of ISIS has caused a proliferation of mines around civilian population centers, including schools, hospitals, and places of worship. Worse, oftentimes, these devices are hidden in everyday objects such as refrigerators or toys. If these explosives are not cleared and continue to maim and kill civilians, including children, the lasting insecurity will provide the perfect environment for the rise of other terrorist groups. A concerted strategy to remove unexploded ordnance will not only promote the safety of our own military personnel there and those of our allies, but of the tens of thousands of innocent civilians working to rebuild their communities.” According to the DOS, an estimated 10-15 million landmines are still hidden in Iraq and the majority of injuries and deaths caused by them are to children. According to Human Rights Watch, in two months – August and September of 2016 – 69 civilians were killed by explosive devices, including 19 children. Human Rights Watch further determined that in the three months between October 21, 2017 and January 20, 2018, which followed the liberation of Raqqa from ISIS, almost 500 people, including over 150 children were either injured or killed by unexploded ordnance. ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Joseph Kennedy, III (D-MA) released the following statements after the House Committee on Foreign Affairs passed H.R. 2259, the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act, sending a message to all current and former Peace Corps Volunteers that America stands with them. H.R. 2259 provides much-needed protections for Peace Corps volunteers throughout every stage of their service: the onboarding process, while they are deployed abroad, and when they return home. “Far too often, our volunteers are injured, sexually assaulted, or contract severe diseases while serving overseas,” said Congressman Poe. “This legislation will ensure that our angels abroad have access to qualified medical professionals (in-country) and extends protections for survivors of sexual assault. It also ensures that ill and/or injured volunteers do not have to spend months dealing with federal bureaucratic red tape just to receive the care they need and deserve. These young men and women sacrifice years of their lives to help people they never even met – they are the face of our country in places where America’s shining beacon of hope and liberty may not always shine so bright. Their service to our country should not turn into a nightmare that ruins or even ends their lives. It’s time we take a stand and take action for our volunteers who are some of the very best we have – and that is exactly what the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act does.” “In every corner of our globe, Peace Corps Volunteers serve in unfamiliar communities to help change lives and share the best of American values,” said Congressman Kennedy. “With the bipartisan passage of this bill in the Foreign Affairs Committee, we are one step closer to protecting our Volunteers currently serving around the world and ensuring the Peace Corps’ influence reaches new heights. I thank Congressman Poe for his advocacy and leadership on behalf of our legislation and look forward to bringing it to the House Floor for a vote.” More specifically, the Sam Farr and Nick Castle Peace Corps Reform Act builds upon the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act by: Requiring Peace Corps to provide prospective volunteers with critical information prior to deployment, including country-specific crime statistics and health risks. Requiring Peace Corps to provide volunteers with access to qualified medical doctors. Strengthening existing provisions ensuring volunteer protection from sexual assault and harassment, including extending the authority of the Sexual Assault Advisory Council. Enhancing access to health care for returned Peace Corps volunteers by granting them immediate access to the care they need and deserve. Providing further reforms to improve oversight, management and efficiency of the Peace Corps. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA.), and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) released the following statements after the U.S. House of Representatives passed by bipartisan vote, H.R. 2152, Citizens Right to Know. Each year, millions of dollars are federal grant money is used by some state and local pre-trial release programs. These programs allow criminals to be released from detention and await trial at home. Unfortunately, some jurisdictions overuse these programs and release many repeat and dangerous criminals with little or no oversight. Citizens Right to Know addresses these concerns by mandating that any state or local pre-trial release program that accepts federal money must report basic information such as: who participates in the programs, the criminal records of participants, the appearance rate at trial, and previous failure to appear of program participants. “I would like to thank Majority leader McCarthy and Chairman Goodlatte for bringing this important piece of legislation to the floor of the House. Dangerous criminals lurk on the streets of our cities, communities, and towns, free from the threat of prison- at the taxpayers’ expense,” said Congressman Poe. “After committing a crime, pre-trial release programs allow wrongdoers to be released from jail and await trial at home. These programs are often funded by tax-payer dollars and require little to no oversight of the released individual. There are no protections in place to prevent criminals from committing yet another crime. Citizens Right to Know alters this dangerous practice for pre-trial release programs that receive federal funds by requiring record-keeping and reporting on participants. House passage of this important legislation will help end taxpayer-funded bailouts of hardened criminals.” “Criminal defendants who pose a threat to others belong in jail before their trial, not back on the streets,” said House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy. “The Citizens’ Right to Know Act ensures that Americans will know if state and local governments use federal funds to release dangerous criminals before trial. Our communities are safer today because of Congressman Poe’s hard work to pass this bill.” “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe, and we must ensure that taxpayer dollars are not being used to allow hardened, violent criminals to return to the streets while they await their trials,” said House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.). “The Citizens’ Right to Know Act requires the reporting of information and statistics about the grants used by state and local governments that allow defendants to await their trial at home instead of in jail. This commonsense oversight will provide Congress critical information on how taxpayer funds are being used and who is benefiting from these programs, so that reforms can be made if necessary. I commend Congressman Poe for his dedication to ensuring the safety of our communities and applaud the House for passing his bill today.” Citizens Right to know is supported by the Professional Bail Agents of the U.S., the American Bail Agent Coalition, Americans for Safe Neighborhoods, and the National Association of Police Organizations, American Civil Rights Union, American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) - Criminal Justice Reform Task Force, American Values, Children First Foundation, Christian Coalition, Coalition for a Fair Judiciary, Crime Survivors, Crime Victims United, Free Congress / American Opportunity Foundation, Klaas Kids Foundation, Let Freedom Ring, National Association of Police Organizations, Inc, and Parents of Murdered Children. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, U.S. Representative Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement after President Trump’s announced the termination of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran. “The Iranian nuclear deal was crafted behind closed doors, without the approval of Congress. This deal, and the resulting ~$1.3 billion in cash airlift, was a huge mistake,” said Rep. Poe. “President Trump’s decision to end America’s participation in the disastrous Iran nuclear deal is in the best interest of American national security. This deal, also known as the JCPOA, has provided Iran access to billions of dollars to support terrorism, build ballistic missiles, and oppress the Iranian people, all the while providing Tehran a patient pathway to a nuclear arsenal. With the President’s decision, we have regained leverage to push the Iranians back to the table to negotiate a new agreement that will stop Iran’s ballistic missile development, indefinitely prevent Iran’s ability to enrich uranium to a level to produce bombs and strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency’s ability to inspect all Iranian facilities suspected of involvement in nuclear weapons development. Most of all, it sends a clear message to the mullahs that the era of appeasement to their threats and evil ambitions is over.” Congressman Poe is the Subcommittee Chairman of Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement following the historic summit between North and South Korea. “For generations, the Korean War has continued with no feasible end in sight,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “For over 6 decades, the Kim regime has actively pursued nuclear and ballistic weapons, refused to enter negotiations, and committed acts of terror against anyone who opposed the rogue regime. While promises of denuclearization and peace sound promising, we must remember that no agreement for turning this rhetoric into a reality has been reached. The United States hardball tactics, such as declaring the murderous regime a State Sponsor of Terrorism and intense economic sanctions, have had their intended, insurmountable effect. We must proceed with caution and stand with our allies to ensure that these proposed talks are not merely a ploy to serve North Korea's interests." Congressman Ted Poe is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
04.18.2018	REP. POE ON PASSING OF FIRST LADY BARBARA BUSH WASHINGTON, D.C.- This evening, Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement regarding the passing of First Lady Barbara Bush. “Barbara Bush was an iconic leader and truly embodied what it meant to be the First Lady of the United States,” said Congressman Poe. “She stood beside the America people through decades of major political events, leading our nation as First Lady with dignity, grace and more than a little bit of wit. She watched two of her sons follow in their father's footsteps in bids for the U.S. Presidency, stood arm and arm with Americans as our nation was brought under attack, supported her son, George W. Bush, during his presidency, and taught us all the value of our families. She gave us the faith to believe in something larger than ourselves. She is an inspiration to all. Barbara Bush died as she lived, a strong Texas woman. My prayers are with the Bush family tonight.” ###
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism released the following statement in response to the United States announcement of precision strikes against Syria. “For months, the world has watched in horror as defenseless men, women, and children were murdered in cold blood by a rogue regime intent on using chemical weapons against their own people,” said Chairman Poe. “Yesterday evening, President Trump joined together with our allies, France and Britain, to authorize precision airstrikes on the Bashar al-Assad regime. The use of chemical weapons is a direct violation of international law. This swift and decisive retaliation was an appropriate and proportional response to this horrific crime. As President Trump stated, the United States does not seek an indefinite presence in Syria. The United States troops currently deployed in Syria seek only to eradicate the influence of ISIS. We are closer than ever to achieving this goal. Congress would be required to authorize additional boots on the ground- regardless of the mission goal.” Congressman Ted Poe is a Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
04.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ContactCongressman Ted Poe:Karina Erickson (202) 225-6565 Congressman Jim Costa: Claudia Larson (202)-570-5195 Congressman Dave Reichert: Kathryn Hopper (202)-225-7761 Congressman Brian Higgins:Theresa Kennedy (716) 803-4281 CONGRESSIONAL VICTIMS’ RIGHTS CAUCUS HOLDS ANNUAL AWARD CEREMONY WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Co-Chairs and Co-Founders Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) joined members Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Brian Higgins (D-NY) of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals who have given their time and service to helping victims. This year marks the 12th anniversary of the caucus. The Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus (VRC) is a proven and effective leader in advocating for crime victims. During its 12-year existence, the VRC has taken the lead in protecting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including programs established under the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA). The caucus was instrumental in the enactment of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, the Cruise Vessel Safety and Security Act of 2009, the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011, the SAFER Act of 2013, the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013, and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015. Each year, it hosts various briefings on victims’ rights issues, including domestic violence, child abuse, elder abuse, human trafficking as well as various other topics. It also recognizes National Crime Victims’ Rights Week with an annual awards ceremony. “Today’s honorees are some of the most committed people in their field,” said Rep. Poe. “Their work and advocacy have inspired meaningful changes that should never be forgotten. Each year the VRC has the privilege of honoring those unsung heroes who have dedicated their lives to supporting and empowering survivors of crime. Stories like Meagan Rondini’s have started a national dialogue regarding sexual assault on college campuses and has encouraged Congress to consider legislation on the issue. We will all continue to fight in her name and improve our response to on-campus sexual assault. In addition, organizations such as SafeSport are working to eradicate abuse from our sports programs. The organization is a shining beacon that empowers our youth to stand up for what is right. With programs like SafeSport, our future is in good hands.” “Those serving survivors are often a vital lifeline, but far too frequently their hard work and dedication goes unnoticed,” said Rep. Costa. “Today, I had the opportunity to honor two of these remarkable individuals: Arien Pauls and Julie Nauman. By using her painful experience to relate to other survivors in Fresno and support them in their recovery, Arien is an example of true strength and the triumph of the human spirit. Julie’s innovative and powerful outreach programs to education survivors across California about their rights have made a real difference in communities across our state. Both are an inspiration, and I am deeply honored to recognize them for their selfless commitment to victim advocacy and serving our survivors.” “I am honored to present Jessica Johnson with this award for outstanding victim advocacy. Jessica and her team at Safety, Advocacy, Growth, and Empowerment (SAGE) do incredible work in Wenatchee, Washington providing resources for victims who have faced traumatic experiences,” said Rep. Reichert. “From my more than 33 years of experience in law enforcement, I know firsthand how important places like SAGE can be for those who don’t know where else to turn. Through ongoing partnerships with local law enforcement and community assistance programs, SAGE is able to provide unique assistance to those in need. Our community of Central Washington is better thanks to the dedication of Jessica and her colleagues at SAGE.” “For Erie County Family Court Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin, the quest for justice isn’t simply what she does, it’s who she is,” said Rep. Higgins. “Throughout her lifetime of service she has sought not only to resolve the immediate challenge facing an individual victim or a family but pursued improvements to fix the system, change the law, elevate support services and ultimately prevent future occurrences of crime and abuse.” The awards were live streamed on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page. Award Recipients: Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness In honor of Megan Rondini Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) On July 1st, 2015, Megan Rondini was sexually assaulted after a night out in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Immediately following the assault, Megan went to a hospital to get a rape kit. However, the hospital did not have anyone on staff trained to deal with sexual assault victims or trained to collect forensic evidence. Immediately following the failed hospital visit, she went to the police. When she recounted her story, the police openly questioned and disregarded her. Megan then sought help at her university, the University of Alabama. She was again met with disdain and disbelief. The trauma of her rape, coupled with receiving utterly no assistance from the school, police, and hospital, ultimately led Megan to take her own life. Her story and her voice live on, and real efforts to improve responses to sexual assault have been undertaken both at her University and on the federal level. Allied Professional Award U.S. Center for SafeSport Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) The U.S. Center for SafeSport is an organization dedicated to protecting athletes from bullying, hazing, sexual misconduct or any form of emotional or physical abuse within their sport. Accepting the award on behalf of the organization is Shellie Pfol, SafeSport’s President and Chief Executive Officer. Shellie Pfohl is President and Chief Executive Officer of the United States Center for SafeSport. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Arien Pauls Nominated by Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) Arien Pauls became a victim of human trafficking soon after graduating high school. Her trafficker isolated her from her friends and family and forced her to have sex with strangers for money for four years. Luckily, after enduring a forced abortion, Arien was able to escape her trafficker and start a new life. She became an advocate for human trafficking victims, using her experiences to relate to and help others. She volunteered with Breaking the Chains and the Central Valley Justice Coalition, where she shares her story with hundreds of young women. Through this group, she is able to educate students about the dangers of human trafficking. Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness Julie Nauman Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16) Julie Nauman serves as the Executive Officer of the National Association of Crime Victim Compensation Board in California. Under her direction, the Board has conducted multi-lingual victim outreach and public awareness efforts to reach crime survivors. She is actively involved in ensuring that victims of crime receive all the help and compensation they require. Even though it is not required, Julie often reaches across state lines to offer assistance in cases where resources are scarce. She is a dedicated public servant and staunch defender of victims’ rights. Lois Haight Award for Excellence and Innovation Honorable Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin Nominated by Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26) Judge Lisa Bloch Rodwin has dedicated her life defending individuals and families. Her extensive record in public policy on abuse, neglect, juvenile justice, custody and family violence has earned her national recognition. During Lisa’s storied career, she has worked with the Erie County District Attorney’s office, served as Chief of the Domestic Violence Unit, and was most recently appointed by the New York State Governor as an Erie County Family Court Judge. Lisa is just one of a few select judges chosen to serve on the New York State Family Court Advisory and Rules Committee, which is responsible for drafting and reviewing legislation on Family Law. She has also been appointed to the NYS Advisory Council on Immigration Issues in Family Court. Before being appointed to the bench, Lisa was the founder of the New York State’s first Domestic Violence Bureau outside New York City. Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Jessica Johnson Nominated by Rep. Reichert (WA-08) The Safety, Advocacy, Growth, and Empowerment (SAGE) program in Wenatchee Valley works to aid individuals who have experienced domestic abuse. For the past 12 years, Jessica Johnson has gone above and beyond, serving SAGE to the best of her ability. In 2016, Jessica was promoted to Executive Director. Her work with SAGE has helped to provide a safe-haven for those who faced sexual abuse, domestic violence, stalking, poverty, and sex trafficking in Central Washington. ###
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation announcement regarding the seizure of Backpage.com. “For years, websites like Backpage.com have offered a free platform to post ads for commercial sex,” said Congressman Poe. “These ads are accessible to countless criminals instantaneously. Even after Backpage shuttered the “adult content” portion of its website, ads for sexual encounters with underage and trafficked victims still existed. As of today, Backpage.com and its affiliated websites have been seized by the Department of Justice and FBI. While there is still much more work to be done, Backpage’s closure will save hundreds of young women and children from the hands of dastardly, deviant child sex traffickers. Victims of human trafficking will no longer be able to be sold on the number one digital marketplace of modern-day slavery.” Congressman Ted Poe is a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe worked as a judge and prosecutor for over 20 years. ###
04.06.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Friday, April 06, 2018 CONTACT: Lauren Amendolara McDermott (Keating): 202-225-3111 Karina Erickson (Poe): 202-225-6565 Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) and Bill Keating (MA-09), the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Ranking Member, introduced House Resolution 810 to reaffirm the vital importance of the US-European Union (EU) transatlantic trade relationship. In light of the recent tariffs, it urges the Administration to issue a permanent exemption for the EU from the steel and aluminum tariffs. “Free trade has continually proven itself to be effective for our country. We must hold true to this proven economic philosophy,” said Congressman Poe. “The Port of Houston is the largest export port in the nation. 50 percent of the Houston economy is based on the Port of Houston. We export everything from oil and gas to everyday goods and merchandise. U.S. tariffs against the E.U. would no doubt result in retaliatory tariffs. Free trade prevents tariff wars- where the loser is the consumer, since the buyer, no matter where they live, pays the increased cost of the goods.” “The EU is our closest ally and one of our greatest trading partners,” said Congressman Keating. “If a trade war were to be started with them, similar to what we are seeing with China, American jobs here at home would suffer, in addition to our working relationship on critical issues like global security matters. In my district, one of our most important historic industries – cranberries – has been designated by China for retaliatory tariffs. Similar retaliatory tariffs from the EU would cripple the industry. It makes no sense to put our close economic and security relationship with our EU partners at risk, and we urge this Administration to act carefully and thoughtfully with respect to our transatlantic trade partnership.” The Poe- Keating Trade Resolution: Reaffirms the critical nature of the trade relationship between the US and EU; Urges the Trump Administration to prioritize the principles of fair trade with our allies, especially EU Member states; and Urges the Administration to extend a permanent exemption from the steel and aluminum tariffs to the EU. ###
04.03.2018	POE CALLS FOR NATIONAL GUARD DEPLOYMENT TO U.S./MEXICO BORDER WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe released the following statement regarding a potential deployment of the U.S. Military to the U.S- Mexico border. “Protecting American sovereignty and the American people is a constitutional requirement of the federal government, said Congressman Ted Poe. “The National Guard should be deployed to the border upon the request of the state Governor to help ensure that our homeland remains secure and those who wish to enter the United States do so LEGALLY. During their deployment, the National Guard can assist Border Patrol and prevent those who wish to enter our country illegally. The United States should also transfer surplus military equipment to be used by our National Guard and border security protectors. I have long advocated for such a move and have filed the SMART Border Act to do just this. Eligible equipment would include surveillance cameras, aerostats (small blimps), night vision gear, Humvees and other applicable equipment that can be used for border security purposes. The Coast Guard has concurrent jurisdiction over the international waterway, the Rio Grande river, and should be deployed to protect portions of it. Border security is a national security issue.” ###
03.29.2018	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding theU.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement. “The new U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) is good for the American economy, good for American workers, and good for the U.S.-South Korean alliance,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Under the updated trade pact, the U.S. auto and pharmaceutical industries will gain greater access to the South Korean market, Korea’s custom procedures will be reformed to strengthen rules-of-origin requirements, and a new process to address currency devaluation that gave South Korean exports an edge will be launched. Overall, the new KORUS is a victory for free trade, which levels the playing field and reinforces our bond with a crucial American ally. I congratulate Ambassador Lighthizer and President Trump on negotiating a great deal.” ###
03.15.2018	For Immediate Release March 15, 2018 Contact: Karina Erickson (Poe) (202) 225-6565 Engel Press Office (202) 226-9103 Lizzie Litzow (McCaul) (202) 213-4304 Rebecca Bryant (Smith) (202) 225-8901 Lauren McDermott (Keating) (202) 225-3111 WASHINGTON—Today, a bipartisan group of House members introduced legislation to promote more effective development in fragile and unstable countries, addressing the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act would require the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to ramp up coordination with the Departments of State and Defense to develop a global initiative aimed at preventing the root causes of violence and instability in countries around the world. The bill was introduced in the House by Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), Bill Keating (D-MA), and Paul Cook (R-CA). “With the rise of modern terrorism, fragile and failing states have become breeding grounds for radicalism and terrorist activity, directly threatening the national security of the United States. We must spend our already existing foreign assistance money more effectively, preventing states from failing in the first place. This allows us to later avoid undertaking costly military and nation-building interventions where terrorist find safe haven. Using the lessons we have learned over the last two decades, we must require our government develop long-term strategies to address conditions which lead to violent failed states, ultimately weaning them off American aid. The bipartisan Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will ensure our taxpayer money is spent on carefully planned strategies that contribute to our national security and reduce violence abroad,”said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “The United States has been at war for 16 years and has spent decades more working to stabilize fragile countries. This bill would make us take a hard look at what’s working and what isn’t, and help relevant agencies work more closely to tackle this challenge. After all, when we help countries become stronger and more stable, we make it harder for terrorists, criminals, and other violent groups to put down roots. That makes the United States and our partners safer,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. “I’m pleased to join with this group of lawmakers that spans the aisle to offer this measure and I hope the House acts on it soon.” “We cannot relent in our efforts to deny extremist groups territory from which they can conduct operations against the United States and the West. As ISIS and other terror groups and individuals spread violence and hatred in societies across the globe, it is clear that denying safe havens is simply not enough. Therefore, those charged with combatting terror around the world must be able to evolve with the dynamic and evolving threat landscape. This legislation requires the relevant governmental agencies to produce an integrated strategy to keep terrorists off the battlefield by drying up the unstable, fertile ground from which they recruit — a process I call ‘deny and dry.’ This bill will also proactively prioritize the resources necessary to eradicate terror hot spots and ensure we accomplish our goal of a more peaceful and stable world,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “Around the world, instability in the form of conflict, famine, or disease sends millions of people fleeing from their homes annually. We are in the midst of an unprecedented global refugee crisis, with nations across the globe grappling with how to respond. The United States has a proud history of leading the international community in helping others during times of strife – however it is essential that our bodies of government that carry out these missions coordinate with one another. This legislation represents a significant first step in bringing the defense, diplomatic, and development communities of the United States to the same table, working to help answer the challenges of poverty and violence overseas,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “Instability breeds insecurity, and the more instability there is in the world, the longer we will continue to see extremism take hold in communities,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “Based on everything we’ve learned over the decades we’ve been combatting terrorism, assisting countries struggling with instability is our greatest opportunity to eliminate the threat of violence. This bill is a critical first step in building a strategy to tackle this challenge more effectively through long-term investments to strengthen and secure communities, helping countries become more resilient to extremism.” Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 66 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs the global economy $14.3 trillion a year (13.4% of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act would charge USAID and the State and Defense Departments with designating 10 pilot countries from several regions of the world and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those countries. The bill requires these agencies and departments to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and to adapt their efforts based on results. It also requires a mid-term evaluation by the Government Accountability Office, to provide an outside perspective on additional areas of improvement. # # #
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the escalating human rights violations in Russian occupied Georgian territory. “The Russian Bear wastes no opportunity to showcase its evil intentions and flagrant disregard for international law and basic human decency. Just last month, three Georgian citizens were detained by forces in the Russian-occupied Georgian region of South Ossetia. Tragically, one of the Georgians detained, Archil Tatunashvili, was tortured and ultimately killed while in detention, and the Russian-backed separatist authorities are still refusing to turn over his corpse to his family. Only terrorists and hateful regimes intent on evil would stoop so low as to refuse to turn over the body of the fallen. The tyrannical regime of Vladimir Putin is not satisfied by kidnapping and murdering his own people alone, he wants to bring his tyranny to all the former Soviet Republics and usher in a new dark age of Russian hostile intimidation throughout eastern Europe. This latest egregious move by the Russians in Georgia must not pass in silence. Russia must pay a price for its ongoing violation of Georgia’s territorial integrity and the crimes against the people of Georgia. And that’s just the way it is.” ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Annie Kuster (D-NH) introduced the bipartisan Keep Young Athletes Safe Act of 2018, which creates a grant program to protect athletes under the jurisdiction of the United States Olympic Committee from physical, emotional, and sexual abuse. The bill authorizes the Department of Justice to provide funds for nonprofit, nongovernmental entities to support oversight and anti-abuse education at the United States Olympic Committee, its national governing body, and each Paralympic sports organization. "The Keep Young Athletes Safe Act is critical in protecting our young athletes from sexual abuse," said Rep. Poe. "The horrific exploitation of hundreds of young women by Larry Nassar underscores why this legislation is so important. This legislation takes important steps to protect our athletes from abuse and funds oversight efforts to ensure that our Olympic athletes are trained in a lawful, safe atmosphere. We owe this to the survivors of Larry Nassar and our future Olympic athletes." “The young athletes who have spoken out about the abuse of Larry Nassar have demonstrated incredible strength, courage and determination,” said Rep. Kuster. “We cannot allow other young athletes to suffer the abuses faced by these brave survivors. This legislation will help ensure that young men and women can train in a safe, supportive environment. I will continue to advocate on behalf of survivors of sexual violence and work to hold perpetrators of such acts responsible.” ###
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding talks between the United States and North Korea. “Following the Winter Olympics, North Korea's decision to come to the negotiating table shows promise. However, we must proceed with caution; this is not the first time that the warmongering nation has agreed to talks. Previously the secretive regime used the discussions to extract concessions and buy themselves time to advance their nuclear programs. The United States must stand with our allies and ensure that these proposed talks are not merely a ploy to serve North Korea's interests. The sanctions that we have implemented, including designating the rogue nation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, are working. The pressure felt by the Kim regime is insurmountable- exactly as intended. We must continue to apply this sustained pressure and peacefully end North Korea's nuclear threat.” ###
03.07.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), both cancer survivors and co-chairs of the Congressional Cancer Survivors Caucus, announced bipartisan legislation to help patients better navigate their cancer diagnosis. The Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act (H.R. 5160) would improve doctor-patient communication by enabling doctors to bill Medicare for the time they spend developing comprehensive cancer care plans. According to a recent study cited by the National Institutes of Health only 45 percent of patients felt adequately informed about their cancer diagnosis. "Cancer is an epidemic in our country. Approximately 1.7 million Americans will be diagnosed with cancer this year alone. As a cancer survivor myself, I know how difficult it can be to understand what the plan for a patients’ treatment is," said Congressman Ted Poe. "This legislation takes a positive step forward by incentivizing doctors to help their patients understand their planned cancer care path and giving them the peace of mind, all cancer patients, and their families deserve." “Medical breakthroughs are at an all-time high, but advancements in doctor-patient communications are not keeping pace. We know that less than half of all cancer patients feel adequately informed about their diagnosis. Without a written plan explaining treatments and expected symptoms, patients are often left with more questions than answers. As a cancer survivor, who is grateful to have a healthy and full life ahead of me, I hope that my experience and this legislation will help others better navigate a diagnosis,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “The Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act is a tangible way to significantly improve the quality of care for cancer patients in Medicare,” said National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship CEO Shelley Fuld Nasso. “Care plans before, during, and after treatment encourage communication between providers and patients, and help alleviate some anxiety at every phase of the care continuum. The CCPC Act would empower patients with tools to manage and coordinate their care from active treatment throughout survivorship. NCCS and our partners look forward to working with Reps. DeSaulnier and Poe to move the CCPC Act forward.” “We commend the Congressional Cancer Survivors Caucus co-chairs for advancing this important legislation,” said CEO and Executive Director of the Inova Schar Cancer Institute, Donald L. Trump, MD, FACP. “The data show clearly that personalized and coordinated care leads to better outcomes – including longer survival. Cancer care is more and more complicated – and successful; it is critical that physicians and patients be full partners in their treatment, that the overall plan of treatment and post-treatment care be fully developed and communicated - that’s what the Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act is promoting.” The complete list of supporting organizations includes: American Society for Clinical Oncology; American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network; Association of Community Cancer Centers; CancerCare; C-Change; Cancer Support Community; Comprehensive Cancer Center of Wake Forest University; Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine; Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Fight Colorectal Cancer; Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center at Columbia University; International Myeloma Foundation; Kidney Cancer Association; Leukemia & Lymphoma Society; LIVESTRONG Foundation; Lymphoma Research Foundation; Markey Cancer Center at University of Kentucky; Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota; National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship; National Comprehensive Cancer Network; National Patient Advocate Foundation; Ovarian Cancer National Alliance; Prevent Cancer Foundation; Purdue University Center for Cancer Research; Susan G. Komen; UAB Comprehensive Cancer Center; University of Arizona Cancer Center; University of Kansas Cancer Center; West Virginia Oncology Society. #
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the House Judiciary Committee’s passage of H.R. 2152, Citizens Right To Know. “Each year, millions of dollars in federal grant money are allocated to state and local pre-trial release programs,” said Congressman Poe. “These programs allow criminals to be released and await trial at home. The reality is that these programs are often overused, releasing dangerous and repeat criminals back into our community with little to no oversight. Once free from the threat of prison, there is nothing to prevent a wrongdoer from committing yet another crime. Citizens Right to Know alters this dangerous practice for pre-trial release programs that use federal funds by requiring record-keeping and reporting on participants, specifically whether the defendants have a history of criminal behavior, whether or not they actually appear for their trial, and whether they have ever failed to appear for trial in prior cases. It’s time for the federal government to end the taxpayer-funded bailout of hardened criminals.” ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding steel and aluminum tariffs. “American manufacturers are essential to the United States economy,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “The proposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports are concerning. These suggested tariffs could trigger responses from our trading partners which will have unintended consequences for American businesses, many of which reside here in the greater Houston area. History shows international trade allies sometimes retaliate, causing chaos in the American economy. Free trade is a philosophy that has continually proven itself to be effective for our country, and we must hold true to this economic reality.” ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement following the Saudi Arabia’s recent decision to relinquish control of Belgium’s largest mosque. “I am encouraged by recent news that Saudi Arabia has decided to give up control of Belgium’s largest mosque that has long been suspected of radicalizing European Muslims,” said Congressman Poe. “Although Saudi Arabia is a U.S ally in the fight against terrorism, it has pursued a persistent policy of funding institutions all across the world that have bred extremism and intolerance among Muslim communities far from its borders. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the classrooms of Saudi funded schools the world over, where textbooks published by the Saudi Ministry of Education have notoriously incited hatred against Christians, non-Muslims and minority Muslim sects at odds with the Kingdom’s interpretation of Islam. That’s why my colleague, Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA), and I introduced H.R. 4549, the Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform Act, which will hold Saudi Arabia to its commitments to combat the evil ideology that inspires terrorism. The fight against terrorism must start on the ideological battlefield. And that’s just the way it is.” Congressman Poe is the Subcommittee Chairman of Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade.
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement following House passage of H.R. 620, the bipartisan ADA Education and Reform Act. This legislation curbs frivolous lawsuits filed to abuse the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) for monetary gain. H.R. 620 creates a notice and cure provision, giving a business time to cure a violation before litigation is initiated. If the business does not take action within a specified, limited timeframe (120 days), the individual can continue pursuing legal action. H.R. 620 seeks to resolve violations quicker than a lawsuit allows and does not infringe upon the rights of the disabled. Under current law, serial plaintiffs shake down business owners who are forced to either settle or go to court. In many cases, the plaintiffs issue demand letters that threaten to bring a lawsuit for an ADA violation unless the business pays them to drop the lawsuit. These letters frequently fail to inform the business owner exactly what the alleged violation is. The business often chooses to pay the ransom and put the potential lawsuit behind them. Small “Mom and Pop” business simply cannot afford costly attorneys, so they settle. This leaves the alleged violation unfixed and the ADA abused. “The Americans with Disability Act is a long-standing law that was intended to make business more accessible to the disabled,” said Congressman Poe. “This common-sense legislation simply provides a notice and cure period, allowing businesses the opportunity to understand and fix an alleged violation. If a violation is not fixed within 120 days, a plaintiff retains their right to sue. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of unscrupulous attorneys. I urge the Senate to quickly take up this legislation and put an end to unscrupulous attorney’s abuse of the ADA.” Supporting groups: Alabama Restaurant & Hospitality Association, Alaska Cabaret, Hotel, Restaurant & Retailers Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, American Resort Development Association, Arizona Restaurant Association, Arkansas Hospitality Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, California Restaurant Association, CCIM Institute, Colorado Restaurant Association, Connecticut Restaurant Association, Delaware Restaurant Association, Florida Restaurant & Lodging Association, Georgia Restaurant Association, Idaho Lodging & Restaurant Association, Illinois Restaurant Association, Indian Restaurant & Lodging Association, Institute of Real Estate Management, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, Iowa Restaurant Association, Kansas Restaurant & Hospitality Association, Kentucky Restaurant Association, Louisiana Restaurant Association, Maine Restaurant Association, Massachusetts Restaurant Association, Michigan Restaurant Association, Minnesota Restaurant Association, Mississippi Hospitality & Restaurant Association, Missouri Restaurant Association, Montana Retail Association, NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of REALTORS®, National Association of Theatre Owners, National Council of Chain Restaurants, National, Federation of Independent Business, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association, NATSO, Representing America's Travel Plazas and Truck Stops, Nebraska Restaurant Association, Nevada Restaurant Association, New Hampshire Lodging & Restaurant Association, New Jersey Restaurant & Hospitality Association, New Mexico Restaurant Association, New York State Restaurant Association, North Carolina Restaurant & Lodging Association, North Dakota Hospitality Association, Ohio Restaurant Association, Oklahoma Restaurant Association, Oregon Restaurant & Lodging Association, Pennsylvania Restaurant & Lodging Association, Restaurant Association of Maryland, Restaurant Association of Metropolitan Washington, Retail Industry Leaders Association, Rhode Island Hospitality Association, South Dakota Retailers Association, Tennessee Hospitality & Tourism Association, Texas Restaurant Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Utah Restaurant Association, Virginia Restaurant, Lodging & Travel Association, Washington Hospitality Association, Wisconsin Restaurant Association, Wyoming Lodging & Restaurant Association ###
02.09.2018	Today, Congress passed a two-year bipartisan budget agreement and funding legislation that is critical for our community, state, and nation. Importantly, it includes $89.3 billion in much needed funds for disaster recovery and future mitigation efforts, including funding to help build a third reservoir and begin studying improvements for Addicks and Barker reservoirs. It also increases funding for our troops and military operations around the world, dedicates more resources to take care of our veterans back home, extends federally qualified community health centers and the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and funds new infrastructure projects. This agreement: Helps to rebuild our military by fully funding our Armed Forces at the levels in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act Provides $89.3 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations for disaster relief efforts in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands Includes $6 billion to strengthen the fight against opioid addiction nationwide by growing substance abuse and prevention programs as well as law enforcement efforts Provides a $20 billion down payment on new American infrastructure projects Continues to slash Obamacare’s unworkable programs, including repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) Extends funding for Community Health Centers Includes $2 Billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health Authorizes an additional four years of CHIP, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Includes funding to reduce maintenance backlog at the Veterans Administration
02.02.2018	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding the public release of the House Intelligence Committee Majority memo. “President Trump should be applauded for releasing the memo. As a former Judge, I am alarmed by the abuses of government surveillance on Americans under the pretext of FISA,” said Congressman Poe. “The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was not intended to allow government to spy on American citizens. The American people are the best judge of what is occurring behind closed, secret, dark rooms of government surveillance. The memo factually outlines government abuse to obtain a secret warrant to spy on an American citizen. I encourage the American people to read the memo and draw their own conclusions. Congress must reform FISA.” Congressman Poe is a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee and Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of the Fourth Amendment Caucus.
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday several members of the Texas delegation wrote a letter to Senate leadership urging quick action on a third emergency supplemental spending bill to provide critical relief to impacted areas and the people who have been living in temporary shelter in the State of Texas since Hurricane Harvey made landfall last August. The House has acted to provide critical funds for Texas and the other states and territories damaged by the devastating hurricane season of 2017. The Senate must do so as well. A joint statement from Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold , Al Green, John Culberson, Michael McCaul, Ted Poe & Kevin Brady is below: “The House has acted to provide critical funds to continue the recovery process for the states and territories that were devastated by the vicious hurricane season last year. Yet, the Senate has failed to take the critical steps needed to keep the promise made by our government in August when the State of Texas was under water due to Hurricane Harvey. We have waited for the Senate to act, but our constituents cannot wait any longer.” Text of the joint letter: The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles E. Schumer Majority Leader Minority Leader U.S. Senate U.S. Senate 317 Russell Senate Office Building 322 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer, As you know, last August the State of Texas was hit by Hurricane Harvey - one of the worst natural disasters in the history of the United States. The devastation wrought on the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only took the lives of 88 Texans, but also caused an estimated $125 billion or more in damage to the areas we represent. In the wake of this tragedy, Congress has passed two small emergency supplemental spending bills designed to begin the recovery process with a promise of a larger package to help not only Texas, but other states and territories equally ravaged by a damaging hurricane season. As promised, the House of Representatives did its part and passed a third emergency supplemental, aimed at providing additional relief for areas impacted by the 2017 hurricane season and the wildfires in California. This bill was sent to the Senate for consideration in December. We are now entering February with no action by the U.S. Senate. We write asking for prompt consideration of this third supplemental. We have constituents who after almost six months, remain in transitional housing and homes that lack weatherization as Texas remains in the grip of an unusually cold winter. It is past time for Congress to act. It is also important to note that while Hurricane Harvey was the worst offender; the region has faced catastrophic flooding for three years in a row. We cannot continue to wait to begin work on critical flood control projects that will protect not only the residents who live in this region, but the taxpayers who pay for costly disaster recovery that can be avoided in the future if we invest in needed infrastructure now. We represent not only one of the most populous regions of the nation, but also the energy capital for America. The region is further home to the largest tonnage port in America and Strategic Ports of Embarkation for key military units. The failure to adequately fund resiliency and reconstruction along the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only puts the lives of our constituents at risk, but also jeopardizes both our energy and national security. We understand that the Senate has been consumed of late with issues of national importance. However, this third supplemental is a non-partisan matter and critical to the lives and livelihoods of our constituents and the nation at large. Therefore, we thank you in advance for moving to pass this supplemental and continuing the necessary work of responding to the 2017 storm season. Very respectfully, Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold , Al Green, John Culberson, Michael McCaul, Ted Poe, Kevin Brady Cc: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan, Speaker of the House of Representatives Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader of the House of Representatives
01.31.2018	36 bipartisan House Members highlight needs at America’s ports WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 31, 2018) – On Wednesday, Congressional Ports Opportunity, Renewal, Trade, and Security (PORTS) Caucus co-chairs Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Ted Poe (TX-02) led a bipartisan coalition of 36 Members of Congress to call on Congressional leaders to ensure that any federal infrastructure package includes resources for America’s ports. “Our national supply chain begins at ports,” the Members wrote. “It is paramount that we provide our ports with the resources they need to both maintain and improve their infrastructure and the national freight network.” [Full letter text is below] “As co-founder and co-chairman of the PORTS Caucus, I believe it is vital to invest in America’s ports and waterways,” Congressman Poe said. “Any infrastructure package presented by the Administration should include necessary funding to maintain and improve our national freight network. Our nation’s ports are critical to the growth of our economy and our national supply chain.” “I’m proud of our broad, bipartisan PORTS Caucus, and believe it is critical for us to send this message to leadership: our nation’s ports must be at the table,” Congressman Lowenthal said. “In the past, this White House has proposed cuts to key multimodal programs like TIGER, which are vital to our ports, where goods transfer from ships to trains and trucks. We need to strengthen these programs, improve these connections, and invest to alleviate bottlenecks that slow goods movement.” “The American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA), the unified and recognized voice of America’s seaports, is optimistic over the prospect of a major infrastructure funding package being approved this year by Congress and the Administration,” AAPA President and CEO Kurt Nagle said.In the letter, the Members point out that the AAPA has identified nearly $70 billion in infrastructure needs for federal investment at U.S. seaports “to improve the flow of cargo as it heads to its final destination.” These investments, the Members wrote, both on land and in the water, will help alleviate congestion in crowded metropolitan areas, hasten the adoption of low or zero-emissions freight technology, and make U.S. seaports more competitive. “Because U.S. ports and their private-sector partners have told AAPA they plan to invest some $155 billion into port-related infrastructure and other capital projects between 2016 and 2020,” Nagle said, “we’re urging the federal government to make a total of $66 billion in port-related investments over the next 10 years on both the landslide and waterside to help ensure the planned investments by the ports come to fruition. “Leveraging federal investments in port-related programs will yield huge dividends in the form of economic growth, maintaining and creating jobs, enhancing America’s international competitiveness and sustaining a healthy environment.” The read the full text of the letter, click here.The following Members joined Congressmen Lowenthal and Poe on the letter: Donald M. Payne, Jr. A. Donald McEachin Brian Babin Scott Taylor Jack Bergman Cedric L. Richmond Denny Heck Filemon Vela Suzanne Bonamici Julia Brownley Bruce Poliquin Nanette Diaz Barragán Aumua Amata Coleman Radewagen Jared Huffman Mark Takano Derek Kilmer Carol Shea-Porter Randy Weber Norma J. Torres Rob Wittman Jerrold Nadler John Culberson Chellie Pingree Stephen F. Lynch Blake Farenthold Albio Sires William R. Keating Alcee L. Hastings Richard M. Nolan John Garamendi Madeleine Z. Bordallo Bob Gibbs Gene Green Barbara Lee
01.26.2018	Congressman John Carter (TX-31) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced the Justice Served Act this week. This bill directs funding to state and local jurisdictions to prosecute violent criminals who have been identified through newly discovered DNA evidence. They are joined by Representatives Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09) Ted Poe (TX-02), John Ratcliffe (TX-04), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Lamar Smith (TX-21), and Eric Swalwell (CA-15) in introducing this important legislation. For far too long, cold cases have sat dormant on investigators’ desks because there has been no identifiable suspect. This bill will ensure those found responsible through new DNA evidence are prosecuted. “Rape victims have the right to know who their attackers are. We must give closure to victims and prosecute the outlaws who commit these crimes,” Representative Poe said. “The Justice Served Act will bring justice to victims of crime and their families by giving prosecutors the tools they need to investigate, solve, and close cold cases. This is absolutely the right thing to do for families and thousands of victims who have fallen prey to predators.” “Criminals will no longer be able to escape justice by hiding behind this onerous backlog. As a former judge, I understand the importance of ensuring prosecutors have the resources necessary to prosecute violent and heinous crimes in a timely manner and to the fullest extent of the law,” Congressman Carter said. “The Justice Served Act will allow us to prosecute criminals identified through DNA testing, and ensure they are never given the opportunity to commit such crimes again. My hope is that victims and their families will be able to find peace and closure once they see justice served.” “Victims of heinous crimes, including sexual assault, deserve to have their attackers brought to justice, and in order for that to happen, our law enforcement officers must have the proper tools at their disposal,” said Sen. Cornyn. “This bill will enhance prosecutors’ capacity to utilize advances in DNA testing to solve and prosecute cold cases and provide closure to families who have sometimes been waiting years for justice.” “As the author of the Debbie Smith Act, I am incredibly proud of the impact the law has had in improving capacity of local precincts and labs to reduce rape kit backlogs and apprehend rapists. Sexual offenders are characteristically recidivists. Timely testing of DNA kits in the aftermath of sexual assault not only prevents future assaults, but can also lead to breakthroughs in cold cases,” said Representative Maloney. “Local law enforcement agencies need this grant program – and Congress must continue to adequately fund it - to address rape kit backlogs to put rapists behind bars and provide justice for survivors. I’m proud to cosponsor the Justice Served Act today with my colleague, Congressman John Carter.” “It is vital for us to ensure our criminal justice system possesses the resources necessary to prosecute crimes and deliver justice for victims,” said Representative Ratcliffe. “I’m proud to support the Justice Served Act, which will help our law enforcement identify criminals in cold cases and prosecute them to the fullest extent of the law.” “Having seen firsthand the value of DNA testing, I am proud to cosponsor this important legislation,” saidRepresentative Reichert. “It is because of DNA testing that my team and I were able to arrest Gary Ridgway in the Green River serial murder case which led to his pleading guilty to 49 counts of murder. With thousands of tip sheets, it was DNA testing in the early 2000s that was influential in confirming what we had suspected since the 1980s. In fact, it was one of the first times DNA was successfully used in a criminal case. Since then, law enforcement’s use of DNA in the prosecution of crimes has made tremendous strides, and it is time we give them the needed resources to prosecute cases that went cold due to a lack of evidence. This essential legislation supports the important work our law enforcement is doing and I strongly support it.” “Giving local prosecutors grants to re-open and prosecute cold cases in which new DNA evidence has come to light means closure for victims and their families, and safer communities,” Representative Swalwell said. “As a former prosecutor myself, I know this is an investment in justice for all of us.” This bill amends the DNA Analysis Backlog Elimination Act. DNA evidence plays an important role in solving crimes, which is why Congress has appropriated over $100 million per year for the last decade, to reduce the DNA backlogs and improve crime laboratory capacity. The bill ensures we are not simply shifting the backlog from DNA evidence kits to state prosecutors. The Justice Served Act capitalizes on these investments by allowing a portion of the Debbie Smith grant to be allocated to prosecute these DNA linked cold cases. The Justice Served Act is supported by the National District Attorneys Association (NDAA), the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN), Debbie Smith, the Major County Sheriffs of America (MCSA), the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the Sergeants Benevolent Association (SBA), the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) and the National Association of Police Organizations.
01.18.2018	Bill would expand access to career guidance, higher education opportunities for veterans and spouses WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), ranking member of the House Veterans Affairs Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Committee, and Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Job TOOLS for Veterans Act, bipartisan legislation to expand access to job training resources for veterans of all eras and their spouses, this afternoon. Under the Job TOOLS for Veterans Act, veterans of all eras would become eligible for the Department of Labor’s Transition Assistance Program (TAP), an initiative established to help current service members transition into civilian life with job search information and training information. Prior to the establishment of TAP, few service members received any job training assistance during their transition at all. The Job TOOLS for Veterans Act would establish 50 centers across the country to expand access to job resources and ensure the Department of Labor provides classes with job-training information. “The men and women who have admirably served our great nation must know we stand behind them when transitioning from military to civilian life,” said Congressman Poe. “The Transition Assistance Program (TAP) ensures their needs are met. TAP allows veterans and their spouses to seek guidance for career training, pursue higher education and provide the necessary resources to access Veterans Affairs benefits. Unfortunately, due to the current size and scope of TAP, many veterans still receive little to no training upon their transition to civilian life. The Job Tools for Veterans Act will allow veterans from any era access to TAP, and it expand the program to at least 50 locations across the United States. The expansion of these programs will give our veterans the support they deserve.” “Access to job training is essential to our mission of ensuring our service members land on their feet when they return home from protecting our freedom,” Esty said. “Our bipartisan bill would expand to make veterans of all eras able to participate in the TAP program, a key veterans’ job training program with a proven track record of results, as on average, those who participated in the Department of Labor’s TAP program found their first job close to a month sooner than those who didn’t. Our bill would allow all veterans, no matter when they served, to get access to job training. I’m grateful for Congressman Poe’s support and dedication on this issue.” Veterans in Connecticut applauded the bipartisan effort. “I have been home for seven years now. I know I would’ve appreciated having the support and information provided to current separating service members to assist me in planning for the next chapter of my life after the Marine Corps,” said Gulaid Ismail, a U.S. Marine Corps veteran and small business owner living in Meriden. “It is great to offer it now to veterans at any stage of their civilian employment journey. They earned it.” Esty’s legislation has earned the support of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement following the House vote on the USA Rights Act, which was offered as an amendment to S. 139 – the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 2017 (FISA). “Today’s defeat of the USA Rights amendment to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act was a loss for freedom and the Fourth Amendment,” said Congressman Poe. “The USA Rights Act would have reformed Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to end warrantless backdoor searches by the government of Americans' communications (calls, emails, texts) that are routinely swept up under a program designed to spy on foreign targets, not Americans. We must go after terrorists overseas and can do that and still protect Americans right of privacy. Ironically, the new FISA bill attempts to protect Americans from foreign terrorists, but denies those same Americans the right to privacy in their own homeland. The fight will go on. It does not end here. I will continue to fight for 702 and FISA reforms to end the warrantless spying on American citizens.” ###
01.11.2018	[WASHINGTON, DC] – Today, on National Human Trafficking Awareness Day, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) and U.S. Representatives Lois Frankel (D-FL) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) introduced the bipartisan Visa Transparency Anti-Trafficking Act. The bill seeks to prevent human trafficking by bringing more openness to the foreign temporary worker visa process. The legislation is also co-sponsored in the House by U.S. Representatives Randy Weber (R-TX), Jim Himes (D-CT), Ted Poe (R-TX), and David Schweikert (R-AZ). “Modern day slavery is all too rampant as a result of lax enforcement and inadequate data, which this measure seeks to correct. This bipartisan measure will close major gaps in public government data about non-immigrant visas. The purpose of this measure is to educate the public, strengthen law enforcement’s ability to prevent human trafficking, and make sure key data are reported about every non-immigrant visa category that permits employment. Predatory recruiters and complicit employers are the bad guys – and the government is their silent partner unless it does everything possible to shine a light on this horrific practice of human trafficking. Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” said Blumenthal. “Too many foreign workers are being exploited, forced into sex trade and abusive labor practices. This bill will increase the transparency of workers’ activity and whereabouts, allowing human rights organizations to spot patterns of human trafficking and assist law enforcement in stopping what amounts to modern day slavery,” said Frankel. “Across the globe, far too many people are in bondage,” Cruz said. “Human trafficking is a scourge on our country, and all of us must stand together to stop this grotesque abuse. It is nothing less than the face of evil; it completely tears down the rights of its victims, forcing them into modern-day slavery. There is zero tolerance for those who engage in the horrific practice of human trafficking. I am proud to introduce this bill alongside Senator Blumenthal, to shine a light on the human trafficking abuses that occur within our nonimmigrant visa system. Transparency and information sharing will empower law enforcement and vigilant communities to better identify potential victims and rescue them from predatory employers. I am hopeful that Congress will pass this bill to hold offenders accountable and bring justice to their victims.” “Right under our noses, human traffickers are exploiting major gaps in our visa program,” said Deutch. “With so many different government agencies processing visas, our immigration system is failing to detect human traffickers who are abusing the system. By sharing the data between agencies and with the public, we can build a coalition to crack down on human trafficking and save trafficking victims from this modern form of slavery.” Blumenthal, Cruz, Frankel, and Deutch announced the legislation today on a conference call with trafficking survivor Shandra Woworuntu. “I came to the U.S. through Indonesian recruitment agency who promised me 6 months’ employment at a hotel in Chicago after I paid $3000 for the recruitment fee. They obtained the paper work to get the visa. The fact is, I didn't work in the hotel as promised. Instead, I was kidnapped, my passport was taken, the traffickers asked me to pay $30,000 and forced me to be sex slave in the underground sex business in New York, Connecticut and surrounding areas until I escaped. I believe intervention without prevention in combating human trafficking and exploitation is not a complete solution,” said Woworuntu. “We need more transparency and better data about workers who come to the U.S., and the Visa Transparency Anti Trafficking Act will be perfect to prevent temporary workers who come to the U.S. from being exploited and trafficked like me.” Millions of foreign individuals are authorized to work in the United States every year on temporary, non-immigrant visas. Abusive employers are bringing foreign workers to the United States with the expectation of legitimate jobs, only to coerce them into unbearable conditions, including sex slavery and domestic servitude. Federal data on these temporary work visas is not uniformly reported and not available to the public, impeding law enforcement’s efforts to crack down on this form of human trafficking. The Visa Transparency Anti-Trafficking Act provides a straightforward solution to gaps in reporting, by requiring a standardized reporting system, expanding reports to include critical information, and providing governments, advocates, and the public with the data needed to develop trafficking prevention programs. “The marketplace of sex trafficking continues to grow,” said Poe. “Often times, a trafficked victim is brought into the United States under false pretense, on a non-immigrant visa. Upon entering our country, the victim expects to make an honest living, only to find themselves a victim of human trafficking. This legislation gives law enforcement the necessary transparency and tools by creating standardized reporting procedures for nonimmigrant visas. This will help identify victims of trafficking and allow law enforcement to go after the trafficker themselves. It’s time to put an end to modern day slavery.” “No one, under any circumstance, should ever be subject to human trafficking. The stories we hear of foreign workers sliding through the cracks in this area are troublesome. America is a land of hope and opportunity – calling many to the American dream. With this bill, we are streamlining the Homeland Security reporting system, making public relevant information, and ensuring that companies and organizations are held accountable for their actions. Human trafficking of nonimmigrant workers is an underreported crisis, and the bill my colleagues and I have put forth is aimed at ending these egregious acts,” said Weber. “Human Trafficking is a reprehensible crime, one where victims can rarely seek the help they need,” said Schweikert. “The Visa Transparency Anti-Trafficking Act will help create standardized, publicly available, reporting requirements that will then be shared with the public. The power of accessible information will enable governments, advocates, NGOs, and the public to aid these human trafficking victims, while also pursuing perpetrators. I am proud to once again introduce this great piece of legislation.” “It has become clear that our nation’s fragmented, often irrational visa system has enabled heinous crimes like human trafficking to occur. All too often, foreign workers are promised legitimate work in the United States only to be pushed into a life of forced labor and servitude,” Himes said. “We cannot fight what we do not measure. Our bill will shine a light on the visa process, giving law enforcement the data they need to start the morally critical job of combatting human trafficking while respecting the privacy of its victims,” said Himes. The Visa Transparency Anti-Trafficking Act would: Create a standardized reporting system across all non-immigrant visas that authorize work, and require that the reported information be made public; Mandate that critical information be included in the public report in order to help advocacy groups and the public identify signs that a foreign workforce is demographically distinct from its domestic counterpart – which may indicate an underlying problem, such as employment discrimination, or worse, human trafficking; Give governments, advocates, and the public the data needed to develop targeted trafficking prevention outreach programs to educate workers domestically and abroad. The Visa Transparency Anti-Trafficking Act is also supported by AFL-CIO, Alliance to End Slavery & Trafficking (ATEST), American Federation of Teachers, Centro de los Derechos del Migrante, Coalition of Immokalee Workers, Coalition to Abolish Slavery & Trafficking (CAST), Economic Policy Institute, Freedom Network, Free the Slaves, Futures Without Violence, International Labor Recruitment Working Group (ILRWG), Justice in Motion, National Domestic Workers Alliance, National Employment Law Project, National Guestworker Alliance, Polaris, Safe Horizon, Service Employee International Union (SEIU), Southern Poverty Law Center, UniteHERE, Verité, and Vital Voices. “The media have reported countless cases of worker abuse, but little else is known about guestworker programs, despite the fact that hundreds of thousands of guestworker visas are issued every year,” said Daniel Costa, Director of Immigration Law and Policy Research at the Economic Policy Institute. “That makes it difficult to craft rational policy solutions to improve how the programs are managed and to ensure that the labor standards of guestworkers—and of Americans who work in major guestworker occupations—are protected. The dearth of information also results in an outsized role for corporate interest groups that spend millions lobbying to expand and deregulate guestworker programs, because it’s difficult for lawmakers to verify claims about how guestworker programs impact the economy and labor market.” “Based on reports of labor trafficking and labor exploitation made to the National Human Trafficking Hotline, Polaris knows that the abuse of temporary visa holders is undeniable,” said Joe Racalto, Polaris’s Senior Policy Advisor. “To truly understand the exploitation occurring within the United States’ legal visa system, we need more data, more records, and more information. This legislation will be critical to developing pointed interventions that will help end the abuse of temporary visa holders, and we are incredibly grateful for these Congressional leaders in making it a priority.” Justice in Motion Executive Director, Cathleen Caron, said, “Employers make a mockery of the government when they use temporary foreign worker visas as a vehicle for human trafficking. We need to know how employers are misusing the system so we can stop this appalling abuse. This bill will shed light on a virtually clandestine system. We applaud the sponsors for this insightful bill that will be a game changer for how employers use the temporary work visas.” ###
01.10.2018	Amends Section 702 to end backdoor searches and warrantless surveillance of American citizens WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the USA Rights Act, which was offered as an amendment to S. 139 – the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017. In October, Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced the USA Rights Act to reform this sweeping, secretive government spying program authorized under FISA, specifically Section 702. Tomorrow, we expect the bill, introduced as an amendment by Congressman Justin Amash (R-MI), to be debated on the House floor. “Tomorrow, Congress will vote to determine whether they support continued warrantless surveillance of American citizens when the House considers reauthorization of FISA. Make no mistake - this flawed reauthorization bill contains virtually no reforms, violates Americans’ Fourth Amendment rights, and approves warrantless surveillance of our very own citizens,” said Congressman Poe. “My legislation, the USA Rights Act, will be introduced as an amendment, and equips our intelligence and law enforcement agencies with tools needed to go after terrorists and criminals, while closing the backdoor for warrantless searches of Americans. After years of pushing for a warrant requirement for FISA – Section 702 data and standing for Americans privacy, I am pleased to see this brought to the floor for a full vote by the House of Representatives, and I urge my colleagues to stand up for individual liberty.” The USA Rights Act reforms Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to end warrantless backdoor searches of Americans' calls, emails, texts and other communications that are routinely swept up under a program designed to spy on foreign targets. This sweeping authority has been clouded in secrecy, in part because the government refuses to answer essential questions about how it impacts Americans, including who can be targeted and how many American communications the government collects. Despite arguments to the contrary, the USA Rights Act allows the 702 program to continue to be used to target terrorists and agents of a foreign power without a warrant, it simply adds a clear warrant requirement when we search this data on US Persons. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement after President Trump signed the reauthorization of the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act into law. The SAFER Act reauthorizes, strengthens, and extends the Sexual Assault Forensic Reporting program to help fight the nationwide rape kit backlog. The original law and reauthorization were both led by Congressman Poe in the House. “Victims of rape must be given the ability to pursue justice against their attackers,” said Congressman Poe. “Unfortunately, thousands of victims across the country are denied this opportunity each day. Reducing the national rape kit backlog will help protect victims of crime and give victims the justice they deserve.” Background: Congressman Poe and Senator Cornyn sponsored the Sexual Assault Forensic Reporting Act, 2013 legislation creating the SAFER program, which has helped law enforcement reduce the rape kit backlog through existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act. Now law, SAFER increased the money that would be spent on untested rape kits by 35 percent and mandated that 5-7 percent be used for SAFER program audits. It helps state and local law enforcement agencies address both the laboratory and storage backlogs by providing funding to conduct one-year audits of untested sexual assault evidence, which has uncovered tens of thousands of untested rape kits that sit on shelves and in labs across the nation. ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) released the following statements applauding the House’s passage of the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act. “Unfortunately, thousands of rape victims across the country are denied justice each day,” said Congressman Poe. “For many, rape is a fate worse than death- a victim relives their trauma over and over again. In 2015, the DOJ estimated that there were as many of 4000,000 untested rape kits in the United States. This backlog forces a victim's hand, leaving them unable to produce evidence and pursue justice against their attacker. In 2013, Senator Cornyn and I acted to fix this, introducing SAFER to reduce the number of untested rape kits by allocating already existing funding and resources to states and localities to audit their rape kit backlog. I urge the President to quickly reauthorize SAFER and protect victims of crime, giving victims the justice they deserve.” The SAFER Act also ensures pediatric forensic nurses are eligible for training, which addresses the need for pediatric sexual assault nurse examiners in responding to children suffering from abuse. “This bill is critical to ensuring law enforcement has the resources they need to finally get justice for victims who often have waited far too long,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I commend the House for taking action on this vital program before it expires, and I look forward to the President signing it into law.” Background: Congressman Poe and Senator Cornyn sponsored the Sexual Assault Forensic Reporting Act, 2013 legislation creating the SAFER program, which has helped law enforcement reduce the rape kit backlog through existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act. Now law, SAFER increased the money that would be spent on untested rape kits by 35 percent and mandated that 5-7 percent be used for SAFER program audits. It helps state and local law enforcement agencies address both the laboratory and storage backlogs by providing funding to conduct one-year audits of untested sexual assault evidence, which has uncovered tens of thousands of untested rape kits that sit on shelves and in labs across the nation. ###
12.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, Paul Cook (R-CA-08), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs sent a letter to President Trump urging stronger U.S. action on Hezbollah’s drug trafficking activities in the Western Hemisphere. The letter urges the Administration to designate Hezbollah as a Transnational Criminal Organization (TCO) and as a Designated Kingpin Entity (SDNTK) and to open an investigation into Hezbollah as a criminal enterprise under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act: Chairman Poe: “The U.S. government must use all resources at our disposal to go after Iran’s number one terrorist proxy: Hezbollah. Hezbollah leverages both traditional fundraising methods as well as illicit activities, such as drug trafficking and money laundering, to fund their murderous plots. Hezbollah is the poster-child for what has been called the “terrorist-criminal nexus.” There is absolutely no reason why they should not be designated by the United States as a Transnational Criminal Organization and a Designated Kingpin Entity. The decades-old terrorist designations on Hezbollah only go so far to address the size and scope of Hezbollah’s global illicit activities. I call upon the Trump Administration to not repeat the mistakes of the past administration and make targeting Hezbollah’s illicit activities a first order priority.” Chairman Cook: “For far too long we have ignored the growing convergence of Iran-backed Hezbollah with transnational criminal networks in Latin America. While I applaud the Trump Administration for prioritizing the need to deter and disrupt Hezbollah in the Middle East and elsewhere, we need to do more to address Hezbollah’s illicit activities closer to home in the Western Hemisphere. Hezbollah is a terrorist organization that also runs a criminal enterprise and traffics drugs from South America to fund its global terrorist operations. The U.S. and our regional partners have a vital interest in using every possible tool to prevent Hezbollah’s ability to conduct terrorism, particularly given past attacks on Jewish targets in Argentina in the 1990s and an attempted attack in Washington, D.C. in 2011. President Trump has a huge opportunity now to strike a major blow to Hezbollah’s ability to carry out its terror operations, and I look forward to supporting the President’s efforts on this critical issue.” Chairman Ros-Lehtinen: “It’s no secret that, in its pursuit of the weak and dangerous nuclear deal, the Obama administration ignored Iran’s illicit activity and the threat the state sponsor of terror-regime posed to our national security and the security and stability of our allies. If recent reports of the size and scope of Hezbollah’s operations in Latin America are true, we should all be alarmed as it puts the terror group right in our own hemisphere. We have no time to waste in addressing this threat and that is why I have joined Ted and Paul in writing to the administration and urging it to take immediate steps to disrupt Hezbollah’s financial networks and to attempt to reverse the damaged already caused.” The text of the letter can be found below. December 19, 2017 President Donald Trump1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: We write to express our support for stronger U.S. action to address Hezbollah’s drug trafficking activities in the Western Hemisphere. While Hezbollah is designated under several terrorism programs as well as Syria country sanctions, we do not believe that these actions are sufficient to address the size and scope of Hezbollah’s illicit activities in the Americas. Therefore, we urge your Administration to advance a new focus on Hezbollah’s drug trafficking efforts and connections to organized crime in the region by directing U.S. agencies to designate Hezbollah as a Transnational Criminal Organization (TCO) under E.O. 13581 and as a Specially Designated Narcotics Trafficking Kingpin (SDNTK) entity pursuant to the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act. We also urge you to direct the U.S. Department of Justice to open an investigation into Hezbollah as a criminal enterprise under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. We are concerned over press reports that the Obama Administration may have inhibited efforts by the U.S. Departments of Justice, Treasury, and State to target and prosecute key Hezbollah operatives engaged in terrorism, drug trafficking, and organized crime. Addressing Hezbollah’s illicit activities in the Western Hemisphere has been a top U.S. Congressional priority for many years as demonstrated by multiple oversight hearings and visits to the region. These efforts, along with findings by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, have uncovered direct ties between Hezbollah and criminal groups in the region that have reportedly allowed Hezbollah to amass nearly $1 billion annually to support its global terrorist operations. We believe the U.S. has failed to take sufficient action to disrupt Hezbollah’s illicit financing, and this issue warrants immediate review given recent developments. When the report mandated by The Countering Iran in the Western Hemisphere Act was submitted to Congress in 2013, the Government Accountability Office’s 2014 review revealed that the report only addressed two of the 12 elements required by law. In June 2017, an individual with alleged ties to Hezbollah was indicted in Miami after being extradited to the U.S. by Paraguay, and one individual was arrested for attempting to provide support to Hezbollah in targeting U.S. and Israeli embassies in Panama. These events follow the 2014 arrest of a Hezbollah operative in Peru, the Iranian-linked assassination attempt on the Saudi Ambassador in 2011, and the terrorist attacks against two Jewish targets in Argentina in the 1990s as well as the assassination of former Special Prosecutor Alberto Nisman in 2015, who uncovered evidence of Iran and Hezbollah’s role in these attacks. In October 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3329, the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act, which included Section 105 mandating a U.S. strategy to address Iran and Hezbollah’s illicit networks in the Western Hemisphere and requiring the alignment of U.S. actions on these issues and greater engagement with regional partners. We believe H.R. 3329 along with application of targeted drug trafficking designations are critical to address loopholes in the current U.S. approach to Hezbollah’s illicit activities. We urge your support in addressing these matters and look forward to working with you to advance your new National Security Strategy in the days ahead. Sincerely, Col. Paul Cook, Ret. (CA-08), Ted Poe (TX-02), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27) PDF of the Letter can be found here. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report for H.R.1, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act. “Today, the House took historic action by passing the most sweeping, pro-growth tax reform in over 30 years, said Rep. Poe. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act creates a simpler and fairer tax code, giving relief to middle income Americans. It also lowers the corporate tax rate to 21%, which is currently one of the highest in the world. This will help make our country more competitive, create more jobs, and increase paychecks.” A typical family of four earning the median family income of $73,000 will receive a tax cut of $2,059. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Simplifies an outdated tax code and promotes domestic and global economic competitiveness. Increases the standard deduction by nearly double ($12,700 for individuals and $24,400 for joint filers. That money is not taxed at all). Lowers tax rates across the board. Expands the child tax credit to $2,000, giving parents more money to help raise their families. Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21%. This means real tax relief to small business job creators. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax, allowing Americans to buy the health care that is right for them, if they choose to. Supports graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Increases the exemption amount from the Alternative Minimum Tax. Reforms the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption. For more details regarding the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, click here: http://bit.ly/2BIsycf
12.18.2017	WASHINTON- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding the release of President Trump's National Security Strategy. Congressman Poe: “President Trump’s new National Security Strategy puts the safety of Americans first. Unlike the previous Administration, President Trump articulated a clear and convincing plan for America’s national security and foreign policy. The first duty of government is to protect the people. This strategy places a strong emphasis on working with our allies around the world, facing down our enemies, and strengthening our borders. I look forward to working with the Administration to help implement this strong vision for America.”
12.11.2017	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, introduced H.R. 4603 – the Houthis and Iran Sanctions Accountability Act of 2017. The bill codifies Executive Order 13611, issued on May 16, 2012, by President Obama, declaring a national emergency to deal with the threat on Yemen’s peace, security and stability. The bill targets Iran’s support for the Houthi rebel group in Yemen, as well as those who the President determines knowingly provides significant financial, material, or technological support to those who are in violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2216. Reps. Ros-Lehtinen and Poe were joined in introducing the bill by Reps. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Dan Donovan (R-NY). Statement by Poe: “The chaos that Yemen has devolved into is yet another example of Iran’s destructive influence in the Middle East,” said Rep. Poe. “The Houthi rebels are financially, militarily, and logistically supported by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) – the same nefarious arm of the Iranian regime that has long been fueling the fire of sectarian and civil discord throughout the region. The Iranians need to be held accountable for the mess and war they are perpetuating in Yemen. This bill will send a clear message to Tehran to stop their activities or pay the price. And that’s just the way it is.” Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “Iran’s increasing support for the Houthi rebels has cast an even greater doubt over the possibility of a political solution to the conflict in Yemen. We know that the IRGC has transferred increasingly sophisticated weapons systems to the Houthis, which have been used against Saudi Arabia and even American naval vessels. And now with Hezbollah playing an increasing role in Yemen, we very likely could see this conflict mirror the one in Syria, with disastrous consequences for the region and for U.S. national security interests. That is why it is important that the U.S. hold Iran accountable for its repeated violations of UN Security Council Resolution 2216 and for its increasing support for the Houthi rebels.”
12.11.2017	HOUSTON, TX - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding the attempted terrorist attack in New York City this morning. “This morning a terrorist strapped a pipe bomb to his chest with the intent to cause chaos, death, and mayhem in a busy New York underground subway tunnel,” said Congressman Poe. Reports suggest that the attack was ISIS-inspired but ultimately failed when the pipe bomb malfunctioned and exploded prematurely, justly injuring only the terrorist. While we are on the path to defeat ISIS, we must be mindful that the terror group’s remnants are still at war with America. We must continue to go after ISIS terrorists wherever they operate and prevent them from promoting their murderous ideology.” Congressman Poe is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON- Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Bill Keating (D-MA) introduced H.R. 4549, the bipartisan “Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform Act,” requiring the State Department to provide a report to Congress reviewing educational materials published by Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Education. While Saudi Arabia has been a crucial ally in the fight against terrorism, their educational material fails to live up to our shared commitment to defeat the perverted ideology that inspires the terrorists that threaten both our countries. The report will include assessments of what intolerant content remains, where it is being exported to, as well as what steps the Saudi government has taken to retrieve or destroy intolerant material. Additionally, the report requires a determination regarding whether the U.S. should continue issuing a longstanding waiver to Saudi Arabia under the International Religious Freedom Act despite Riyadh’s persistent designation as a Country of Particular Concern by the State Department. “Despite promises of change for nearly 15 years, Saudi Arabian textbooks-used to teach children both inside the Kingdom and abroad- are full of anti-Semitism, conspiracy theories and incitement to violence,” said Rep. Poe. “For too long we have allowed Saudi Arabia to be both the arsonist and firefighter when fighting Islamic extremism. The current Saudi education curriculum has helped inspire the ideology and hatred that is at the heart of modern terrorist groups like ISIS and al-Qaeda. Some progress has been made – but this is too little too late. This legislation should come as a wake-up call to Riyadh - in the midst of massive changes in the Kingdom, Saudi Arabia has a real opportunity to clean up its textbooks once and for all.” “Saudi Arabia is a critical counterterrorism partner to the United States, and in order for them to be as effective in their mission as possible, they must be taking every effort to ensure their children – and children globally – are not being taught violence and prejudice with materials originating from their country,” said Rep. Keating. “We know the Saudi government has been taking steps to address this important concern, but they must act more swiftly to ensure its curriculum reflects the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s commitments to the United States and to the world on countering terrorism and violent extremism.” ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Yesterday, the Congressional PORTS Caucus, Co-Chaired by Reps. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), hosted a Congressional briefing to discuss how our nation’s ports prepare for hurricanes, their relief efforts, and the federal government’s role in these processes. Expert panelists included Phyllis Saathoff, CEO and Port Director at Port Freeport; Mark McAndrews, Port Director at the Port of Pascagoula; Chris Fisher, CEO and Port Director at the Port of Beaumont; and Commander Brian McSorley of the United States Coast Guard. Congressman Poe gave opening remarks and introductions. “Each and every day, Americans’ lives are impacted by ports. In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Ports across Texas lost millions of dollars’ worth of lost revenue, leading to a severe impact on the American economy” said Rep. Poe. It is my hope that the Congressional PORTS Caucus briefing allowed members of Congress and their staff to better understand the implication our ports have on not just the American economy but national security as well.” The panelists discussed the negative effects hurricanes have on our nation’s supply chain and how to better prepare for these challenges. All three of the ports the panelists hailed from have recently experienced closures due to tropical storms, resulting in millions of dollars of lost revenue. However, the panelists did note that collaboration with the United States Coast Guard and Army Corps of Engineers has resulted in successful restoration efforts and largely returned imports and exports back to normal, though additional mitigation efforts will be necessary. The briefing was attended by Members of Congress, their staff, and industry personnel. Rep. Poe briefs audience on the importance of PORTS to our economy and national security. ###
11.29.2017	Congressman Poe: "The House Intelligence Committee’s decision to move on their own version of FISA legislation without adequate Constitutional protections for Americans is disturbing and creates a dangerous playing field for the future of 702. Anything less than a full 4th amendment warrant requirement based on probable cause means that the continual, warrantless spying on American Citizens will be permitted to continue. FISA was created to go after Foreign Agents and terrorists, not Americans. Now our privacy will be denied by the fact that these warrantless searches will continue. In recent years the perception around the world is that the US is no longer the leader in privacy. The ideals that were born in this country are now are weaker here than in other areas of the world. We must be clear, anything less than a pure warrant requirement for any search on American persons in the 702 database is a failure of this body to protect the Constitutional rights of American citizens." ###
11.28.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 28, 2017 Kingwood and Humble Residents Receive Retroactive and Replacement Medals for Honorable Service to the United States HOUSTON, TX – Today, Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) proudly presented Chief Warrant Officer Douglas P. Roper of Humble and LT. Michael Gene Penn of Kingwood with medals for honorable service to our great nation. “The men and women who serve our great nation are America’s finest,” said Rep. Poe. “Many of those who came to the aid of their country during a time of war were not properly recognized upon their return home. The presentation of the Korean Defense Service Medal to Officer Roper seeks to right this disservice. While Hurricane Harvey may have left Southeast Texas battered and bruised, it has not taken our humanity and our appreciation for our men and women who so admirably served. It is with great honor that I present replacement medals for those Lt. Penn lost to the devastating flood waters.” Douglas P. Roper (United States Army) admirably served during the Korean War from 1969-1974 as a multi engine Army Aviator. Today, he received the Korean Defense Service Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, and a Basic Army Aviation Badge. The Korean National Defense Medal was created in 2002 by President George W. Bush. This medal is awarded retroactively to the end of the Korean war, and is granted to any service performed after July 29th, 1954. Through the efforts of Congressman Poe, the United States Army has verified Chief Warrant Officer Douglas Roper for the long-deserved recognition of the Korean National Defense Medal. Michael Gene Penn (United States Navy) admirably served during the Vietnam War from 1969-1973 as a Naval Aviator, assigned to Attack Squadron 56. On his 75th mission, he was shot down by a surface to air missile over Haiphong. Despite ejecting from his aircraft, he was captured minutes after his landing and subsequently held as a prisoner of war for over 235 days at the infamous Hanoi Hilton. Hurricane Harvey has taken much from the people of southeast Texas and it is Congressman Poe’s honor to have these medals replaced for Lt. Penn as a reminder of his military service and personal accomplishments. For his continued years of military service and dedication, he was awarded: The Distinguished Flying Cross- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight in Southeast Asia. The Bronze Star-Awarded for Lt. Penn’s heroic achievements and meritorious service in a combat zone. The Purple Heart- Awarded to Lt. Penn in the name of the President of the United States for having been wounded while serving our nation. The Air Medal- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s single act of heroism and meritorious achievement while participating in aerial flight. The Navy and Marine Crops Commendation Medal-A mid-level United States military decoration which was presented to Lt. Penn for his sustained acts of heroism or meritorious service. The Combat Action Ribbon- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s active participation in ground or surface combat on or after December 7, 1941. A Presidential Unit Citation for Gallantry- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s Gallantry, determination, and esprit de corps in accomplishing a mission under extremely difficult and hazardous conditions. The Prisoner of War Medal– Awarded for Lt. Penn’s honorable service in the Armed forces of the United States, and being taken prisoner in Haiphong, Vietnam in 1972 and held captive for 235 days. The National Defense Service Medal- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s military service during periods of national emergency or any other periods designated by the Secretary of Defense. The Vietnam Service Medal- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s service in the geographical theatre area of Vietnam from July 4, 1965 through March 28, 1973. An Honorable Discharge Button- Awarded for Lt. Penn’s honorable service in the United States Navy. Congressman Poe Presents Chief Warrant Officer Douglas P. Roper with the Korean Defense Service Medal Congressman Poe Presents LT. Michael Gene Penn with the Purple Heart, a replacement for his lost in the floodwaters of Hurricane Harvey ###
11.20.2017	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) released the following statement in response to the re-designation of North Korea as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. This legislation has been introduced in the past two Congresses. “Today President Trump took necessary action, declaring North Korea as a State Sponsor of Terrorism as recommended by my legislation the North Korea State Sponsor of Terrorism Designation Act of 2017,” said Rep. Poe. “The rogue nation spent 20 years on the State Sponsor of Terrorism list, only to be foolishly removed in exchange for promises that it certainly did not keep, including ceasing their perusal of a nuclear weapons program. Since then, North Korea has proliferated nuclear delivery systems, conducted illegal nuclear and ballistic missile tests, murdered dissidents abroad, conducted cyber warfare and made threats to wipe out U.S. cities. There is no doubt that this saber-rattling regime should be returned to the State Sponsor of Terrorism list. I am pleased to see the Administration taking action on this war mongering nation.” Actions Meriting Designation Since 2008: On October 22, 2015, the United States Special Representative for North Korea Policy with the Department of State, testified before the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade that North Korea’s “conduct poses a growing threat to the United States, our friends in the region, and the global nonproliferation regime” and the Deputy Coordinator for Homeland Security, Screening, and Designations with the U.S. Department of State noted that “weapons transfers that violate nonproliferation or missile control regimes could be a relevant factor for consideration, depending on the circumstances, consistent with the statutory criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism”. The Government of North Korea has harbored members of the Japanese Red Army since a 1970 hijacking and continues to harbor the surviving hijackers to this day. On July 16, 2010, in the case of Calderon-Cardona v. Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (case number 08–01367), the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico found that the Government of North Korea provided material support to the Japanese Red Army, designated as a foreign terrorist organization between 1997 and 2001, in furtherance of a 1972 terrorist attack at Lod Airport, Israel that killed 26 people, including 17 Americans. In the case of Chaim Kaplan v. Hezbollah (case number 09–646), a United States district court found in 2014 that North Korea materially supported terrorist attacks by Hezbollah, a designated foreign terrorist organization, against Israel in 2006. In June 2010, Major Kim Myong-ho and Major Dong Myong-gwan of North Korea’s Reconnaissance General Bureau pled guilty in a South Korean court to attempting to assassinate Hwang Jang-yop, a North Korean dissident in exile, on the orders of Lieutenant General Kim Yong-chol, the head of North Korea’s Reconnaissance General Bureau. The court sentenced each defendant to 10 years in prison. In 2011, South Korean News outlets alleged that hundreds of North Korean nuclear and missile experts were working in Iran, including at the facility in Natanz. Intelligence provided to the International Atomic Energy Agency appear to corroborate reports of nuclear collaboration, indicating that North Korea transferred “crucial technology” to Iran including mathematical formulas and codes for nuclear warhead design. Iranian opposition groups claim that nuclear expert delegations from North Korea had traveled to Iran three times in 2015 alone, meeting with high-level Iranian officials including those responsible for nuclear warhead design. In March 2015, the Government of South Korea concluded that North Korea was responsible for a December 2014 cyber attack against multiple nuclear power plants in South Korea. The South Korean Government stated that the attacks were intended to cause a malfunction at the plants’ reactors, and described the attacks as acts of “cyber-terror targeting our country.” On December 19, 2015, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) concluded that North Korea was responsible for a cyber attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment and a subsequent threat of violence against theaters that showed the film “The Interview.” The FBI concluded that the “Guardians of Peace,” which sent the threat to Sony Pictures Entertainment, was a unit of North Korea’s Reconnaissance General Bureau, its foreign intelligence service. Malaysian authorities have alleged that officials from North Korea’s secret police and Foreign Ministry were involved in the poisoning and killing of the estranged half-brother of the country’s leader, Kim Jong-nam, using the chemical weapon VX nerve agent, a substance banned for use as a weapon by the United Nations Chemical Weapons Convention, on February 13, 2017, in Kuala Lumpur. In January 2016, American Student and Citizen Otto Warmbier was kidnapped, tortured and killed by the North Korean government under the accusation of attempted theft of a propaganda poster.
11.17.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Poe- Karina Erickson 202-225-6565 Olson-Melissa Kelly (202) 225-5951 Farenthold- Stacey Daniels (202) 225-7742 Weber- Emma Polefko (202) 225-2831 Babin-Jimmy Milstead (202) 225-1555 McCaul- Lizzie Litzow 202-225-2401 Brady-Allyson Manley (202) 225-4901 HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02), Pete Olson (TX-22), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Randy Weber (TX-14), Brian Babin (TX-36), Michael McCaul (TX-10), and Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement regarding the Office of Management and Budget Supplemental Disaster Request. “After reviewing the latest Office of Management and Budget (OMB) supplemental request for disaster recovery, we find the proposal insufficient and unacceptable. We have met personally with the Director of OMB and explained in detail the disaster of Harvey on Texas. Even so, we strongly believe the request is woefully inadequate. Hurricane Harvey and the subsequent flooding events that followed ranks as the second most costly disaster in modern times (the Fukushima Disaster ranks first). While damages are still being determined, estimates currently sit at approximately $190 billion or more. To be clear, this $44 billion proposal, to be split between multiple disaster areas, does not adequately address long-term recovery needs in Texas. The people of Texas need and deserve federal assistance for long-term flood mitigation, which this request does not sufficiently provide. We stand together opposed to this level of funding and will continue to fight to help Texas rebuild.”
11.07.2017	Mr. Speaker, the world’s largest religion continues to be the world’s most persecuted religion. Christians are assaulted, murdered, harassed, and their homes and churches increasingly are destroyed. Recently, in Cairo, while Coptic Christian priest Father Rizkallah was collecting humanitarian aid, he was stabbed to death because he was a Christian. Now persecution has taken a new twist. While Islamic extremism continues its genocide on Christians and other different sects of Islam, government-sponsored persecution is increasing worldwide. According to Open Doors, 9 of the top 10 countries where persecution exists have large Islam populations. But North Korea, the number one offender, is an atheist nation. Ethnic nationalism is also a major driver of persecution. Weak and/or totalitarian governments use Christians as scapegoats to keep a grip on power. Religious freedom is mentioned first in our First Amendment because it is the most important of all freedoms. It is a God-given right for all people of all religions. Americans should lead the way in worldwide religious freedom and in denouncing religious persecution of Christians. And that is just the way it is. Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD the Open Doors USA Persecution of Christians Watch List. OPEN DOORS USA PERSECUTION OF CHRISTIANS WATCH LIST 2017 1. North Korea 2. Somalia 3. Afghanistan 4. Pakistan 5. Sudan 6. Syria 7. Iraq 8. Iran 9. Yemen 10. Eritrea
11.07.2017	Proposes “Shut the Backdoor” Amendment to protect Americans’ Constitutional Rights WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Reps. Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) today announced their bipartisan push to amend and improve the USA Liberty Act, to ensure that the bill adequately reforms a sweeping, secretive government spying program: “Although the USA Liberty Act makes some necessary reforms, as currently drafted, we believe the bill does not adequately protect the Constitutional rights of Americans. As written, the bill allows the National Security Agency (NSA) to continue warrantless searches of US persons’ data without restriction, and in most circumstances will also allow the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to continue searching the Section 702 database without a warrant.”[i] “We will offer an amendment that provides the level of constitutional protections that the American people deserve, while affording intelligence agencies the authority necessary to target foreign terrorists, criminals and other overseas intelligence targets. This amendment upholds the Fourth Amendment and ends the warrantless backdoor searches of Americans' calls, emails, texts and other communications. Multiple votes by the whole House of Representatives show that support for shutting this backdoor loophole is strong and bipartisan.” [i] https://www.dni.gov/files/icotr/ic_transparecy_report_cy2016_5_2_17.pdf#page=10
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Brad Sherman (D-CA) announced H.R. 2438, the bipartisan Iranian Proxies Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2017, which imposes terrorism-related sanctions on two of the most nefarious Iranian-controlled militias in Iraq and Syria: As-Saib Ahl Al-Haq and Harakat Hizballah Al-Nujaba. H.R. 4238 follows in the footsteps of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, which was signed into law in August and applied terrorist sanctions to the IRGC. The legislation directs the President to levy these same terrorist sanctions on these two dangerous Iranian militias operating in Iraq and Syria. It also requires the Secretary of State to publish and maintain an annual list of all armed groups receiving assistance from the IRGC so that we can better understand the extent of Iran’s expansionist designs. “I applaud the Administration’s recent designation of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) for their persistent terrorist activity throughout the world,” said Rep. Poe. “This is merely the first step. We must continue to push back against Iran’s support for terrorism wherever it may be. For years, Iran has supported a long laundry list of terrorist actors that do its bidding and work to effectively make Baghdad an Iranian outpost. Many of these groups have the blood of hundreds of U.S. service members on their hands, and they take pride in their allegiance to Iran’s Supreme Leader. Further imposing sanctions on these terrorist groups will put a stop on the Islamic Republic’s objective of “exporting the revolution.” “The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) is Iran’s main vehicle for exporting terrorism and mayhem in the Middle East and beyond. It is important to sanction not only the IRGC and its Quds Force, but to go after affiliate entities such as these two militias,” said Rep. Sherman. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON- Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, applauded the passage of H.R. 425, the Foreign Terrorist Organization Passport Revocation Act through the House of Representatives. This legislation authorizes the revocation or denial of passports (and passport cards) to individuals affiliated with designated foreign terrorist organizations. In addition, it allows the accused to request a hearing to ensure that their due process rights are protected, and mandates reporting to Congress whenever the State Department revokes, denies, or restricts the passports of American citizens. “The recent terrorist attack in New York City reminds us that the enemies of liberty will not cease,” said Poe. “They are determined to use all means necessary to threaten our very way of life. Unfortunately, some of our fellow American citizens have chosen to pledge allegiance to these same terrorist organizations that seek to do us harm. As many as 250 Americans have tried to travel to fight in Syria and more than 100 have joined the ranks of ISIS. As the so-called ISIS caliphate collapses and its cowardly followers are increasingly on the run, more American terrorists will seek to travel out of the Middle East with their U.S. passports. We must act quickly to deny these Benedict Arnold traitors the privilege of international travel with an American passport. They are a threat to our homeland and to the international community. I urge the Senate to bring this legislation to the floor quickly.” The FTO Passport Revocation Act previously passed the House unanimously in the 114th Congress. Poe is the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade.
11.01.2017	"Yesterday, as Americans went about their daily lives in New York City, a radicalized coward tore down a busy bike route driving a rented flatbed truck, plowing down all those in his path. The noise of bikes crunching and the cries of the injured rang out. The terrorist rushed forward, ramming directly into a school bus, injuring children inside. He fled the scene, sending bystanders into a panicked frenzy until peace officers apprehended the radical Islamic terrorist. Just blocks from the World Trade center, 8 individuals lay dead and at least 13 more were injured. We must not allow terror to strike fear on American soil. Our full resources must be directed to destroy terrorism. Today, terrorists use social media to recruit, fundraise, spread propaganda and domestically radicalize future supporters. It comes as no surprise that the dastardly terrorist who carried out yesterday’s rampage appears to have meticulously followed attack instructions that terrorist groups like ISIS have publicized online. Meanwhile, the United States does not have a whole of government approach to combatting terrorism on the cyber battlefield. Congress mandated a strategy to do just that, due in March 2017, nearly 8 months ago. I urge this Administration to move quickly on this national security priority to prevent another attack taking innocent American lives again."
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) introduced H. Res. 594, to raise awareness and bring attention to domestic violence and its rampant presence in the United States. This bipartisan resolution was introduced during the month of October to highlight Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Since 1987, the month of October has been observed as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month. During this time, organizations work to increase public awareness about domestic violence in our society as well as highlight efforts to assist and support victims. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one in four women will experience domestic violence at some point in her life. Additionally, according to the Department of Justice, one in fifteen children are exposed to domestic violence each year. “Domestic violence is unacceptable in every form,” said Congressman Poe. “It is not just a family issue, and as a society we must decide that it will not be tolerated. As a former Judge, I saw many victims of domestic abuse come across my bench who experienced devastating effects after being harmed by the ones they loved. We must do everything in our power to put an end to this nightmare. I encourage Congress to stand up for victims of Domestic Violence not only during the month of October, but throughout the entire year.” ###
10.25.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 25, 2017 CONTACT: Karina Erickson (Poe) at 202-225-6565 or karina.erickson@mail.house.gov TJ Adams-Falconer (Thompson) at 202-225-3311 or adamsfalconer@mail.house.gov Sean Coit (Coons) at 202-224-5042 or Sean_Coit@coons.senate.gov Tom Brandt (Moran) at 202-224-6521 or Tom_Brandt@moran.senate.gov Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act would give clean energy projects access to a tax advantage currently available only to oil, gas, and coal projects WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX-02) and Mike Thompson (D-CA-05), and U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) re-introduced bipartisan legislation to level the energy playing field by giving investors in a range of clean energy projects access to a decades-old corporate structure whose tax advantage is currently available only to investors in fossil fuel-based energy projects. The Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act is a straightforward, powerful modification of the federal tax code that could unleash significant private capital by helping an emerging class of energy-generation and renewable fuel companies to form master limited partnerships, which combine the funding advantages of corporations and the tax advantages of partnerships. “For years, the United States has allowed our energy security to be subject to turmoil and mayhem in the Middle East,” said Representative Poe. “It is in our best interest to pursue a comprehensive energy strategy that encourages the domestic production of all energy. This common-sense tax credit will help the United States do just that.” “This bipartisan bill will make it easier and more appealing for private capital to be invested in renewable energy,” said Representative Thompson. “We need to take a comprehensive approach to America’s energy future. By leveling the playing field and treating renewable energy the same way we do oil and gas, we can create jobs, diversify our energy infrastructure, and allow for the creation of more renewable energy sources and technology." “Clean energy technologies have made tremendous progress in the last several decades, and they deserve the same shot at success in the market as traditional energy projects have experienced through the federal tax code,” said Senator Coons. “By updating the code, the bipartisan Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act levels the playing field for a broad range of domestic energy sources -- clean and traditional alike -- to support the all-of-the-above energy strategy we need to power our country for generations to come. This practical, market-driven solution will unleash private capital and create jobs, and that’s why it has earned broad support from Republicans and Democrats in Congress as well as think tanks, business leaders, and investors. Updating the tax code in this way will help increase parity and ensure that these energy technologies can permanently benefit from the incentives that traditional energy sources have depended on to build infrastructure for more than 30 years.” “The United States has the largest and most efficient capital markets in the world, yet our renewable energy companies rarely have access to those markets,” said Senator Moran. “In order to grow our economy and increase our energy security, sound economic tools like master limited partnerships (MLPs) should be expanded to include additional domestic energy sources. The MLP Parity Act will allow the renewable energy sector to utilize the MLP structure for project development making it accessible to a broader and deeper investment pool that can drastically reduce the time and cost associated with deploying new energy technologies.” A master limited partnership (MLP) is a business structure that is taxed as a partnership, but whose ownership interests are traded like corporate stock on a market. By statute, MLPs are currently only available to investors in energy portfolios for oil, natural gas, coal extraction, and pipeline projects. These projects get access to capital at a lower cost and are more liquid than traditional financing approaches to energy projects, making them highly effective at attracting private investment. Investors in clean energy projects, however, have been explicitly prevented from forming MLPs, starving a fast growing portion of America’s domestic energy sector of the capital it needs to build and grow. Newly eligible energy resources would include solar, wind, marine and hydrokinetic, fuel cells, energy storage, combined heat and power, biomass, waste heat to power, renewable fuels, biorefineries, energy efficient buildings, carbon capture utilization and storage. In the House, the MLP Parity Act was cosponsored by Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX-02), Mike Thompson (D-CA-05), Mark Amodei (R-NV-02), Peter Welch (D-VT-AL), Jerry McNerney (D-CA-09), Paul Gosar (R-AZ-04), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03). In the Senate, the MLP Parity Act was cosponsored by Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Angus King (I-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM). ###
10.24.2017	Bill Reforms FISA Sec. 702 to Protect Americans' Security AND Liberties, Reduce Secret Law and Focus Spy Program on Foreign Threats Washington, D.C.­— Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), Zoe Lofgren, (D-CA), Beto O’Rourke, (D-TX), and Justin Amash (R-MI) introduced the USA RIGHTS Act, which reforms a sweeping, secretive government spying program to protect the Constitutional rights of Americans, while giving intelligence agencies authority to target foreign terrorists, criminals and other overseas intelligence targets. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., and a total of 11 senators introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Reforming and Improving the Government’s High-Tech Surveillance (USA RIGHTS) Act—is co-sponsored in the House by: Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) and in the Senate by: Sen. Martin Heinrich, D-N.M., Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wisc., Sen. Bernie Sanders, D-Vt., Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii., Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass, and Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont. The bill reforms Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to end warrantless backdoor searches of Americans' calls, emails, texts and other communications that are routinely swept up under a program designed to spy on foreign targets. The sweeping authority has been clouded in secrecy, in part because the government refuses to answer essential questions about how it impacts Americans, including who can be targeted and how many American communications the government collects. “Americans Fourth Amendment rights are at stake,” said Rep. Poe. “Our bill protects individual freedoms while maintaining intelligence agencies the ability to continue to protect the United States. The days of government searching through Americans private data while skirting through back doors without a warrant must end. The U.S.A. Rights Act ends the warrantless surveillance of Americans through section 702. This makes liberty paramount. Americans should not be forced to sacrifice individual liberty and constitutional rights for false security.” “The USA RIGHTS Act is the best way to shut the backdoor on warrantless spying and to protect Americans’ constitutional rights,” Lofgren said. “As evidenced by multiple votes by the whole House of Representatives, support for these reforms is strong and bipartisan. While there are multiple section 702 reform efforts currently underway, these efforts have yet to provide the level of constitutional protections that the American people deserve.” “Requiring a warrant for a search of information or personal data if the inquiry is about an America citizen is simply the constitutional and right thing to do,” said Congressman O’Rourke. “The USA RIGHTS Act is a bipartisan, bicameral and basic, commonsense piece of legislation that safely reforms Section 702.” "Unlike the other proposals recently offered in the House and Senate, the USA RIGHTS Act makes substantial reforms that seek to meaningfully mitigate the risk Americans will have their privacy violated," said Amash. "Without common-sense protections for Americans' liberties, this vast surveillance authority is nothing less than an end-run around the Constitution," Wyden said. "Our bill gives intelligence agencies the authority they need to protect our country, but safeguards our essential freedoms with new provisions requiring judicial oversight and pushing back on the creeping expansion of secret law." “Congress must not continue to allow our constitutional standard of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ to be twisted into ‘If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear.’ The American people deserve better from their own government than to have their Internet activity swept up in warrantless, unlimited searches that ignore the Fourth Amendment. Our bill institutes major reforms that prove we can still protect our country while respecting our Constitution and upholding fundamental civil liberties,” said Sen. Paul. Read a one-page summary of the bill here. A full summary of the bill is here. The full text of the bill is here. The USA RIGHTS Act has been endorsed by a broad coalition of 42 grassroots, civil liberties and government transparency advocates, including FreedomWorks, Demand Progress, American Civil Liberties Union. Read the full list of endorsers here and statements of support here. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statements after their bipartisan legislation, Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act, passed the Senate. This legislation would reauthorize, strengthen, and extend the Sexual Assault Forensic Reporting program to help fight the nationwide rape kit backlog. “Across the country, there are shelves full of untested rape kits, denying victims justice,” said Rep. Poe. “In 2015, the DOJ estimated there were as many as 400,000 untested rape kits in the United States. Previously, Congress acted to reduce the number of untested rape kits by allocating already existing funding and resources to states and localities to audit their rape kit backlog. This important legislation is now up for reauthorization. I applaud the Senate’s quick action to protect victims of crime and get victims the justice they deserve.” “This bill will empower law enforcement to identify and test more backlogged rape kits, help take criminals off the streets, and deliver justice for survivors,” Sen. Cornyn said. “I applaud the Senate for coming together to get this legislation over the finish line, and I urge my colleagues in the House to advance it quickly.” The SAFER Act also ensures pediatric forensic nurses are eligible for training, which addresses the need for pediatric sexual assault nurse examiners in responding to children suffering from abuse. A one-page summary of the bill is available here. Background: Sens. Cornyn and Bennet were the authors of the Sexual Assault Forensic Reporting Act, a 2013 law creating the SAFER Program which has helped law enforcement reduce the rape kit backlog through existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act. The legislation increased the amount of these funds spent on untested kits by 35 percent and allowed 5-7 percent to be used on SAFER program audits. It helps state and local law enforcement agencies address both the laboratory and storage backlogs by providing funding to conduct one-year audits of untested sexual assault evidence, which has uncovered tens of thousands of untested rape kits on shelves and in labs across the nation. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) introduced a bipartisan resolution, H.RES. 576, reaffirming the United States support for the country of Georgia. “Over the past two and a half decades, Georgia has transformed itself into a regional model of democracy and liberty,” said Rep. Poe. “Time and again, Georgia has also proven itself to be a devoted and supportive ally of the United States. Our two nations have developed a strategic partnership built on a foundation of shared values. As the co-chair of the Congressional Georgia Caucus, I have advocated deeper ties between our countries for years – and there is no better way to cement those ties than through bilateral investment and trade. In recent years, however, American companies have expressed increasing concern regarding the business environment in Georgia, pointing to bureaucratic obfuscation and alleging lingering corruption in some corners of the Georgian government. As a true friend of Georgia, it falls on my shoulder not only to praise Tbilisi’s progress but also to point out when more work needs to be done to prevent Georgia’s backsliding along its democratic trajectory. H. Res. 576 reaffirms our strong ties with the people and government of Georgia while also calling for a level playing field for American companies operating in the country. This will undoubtedly benefit both of our countries and strengthen our bilateral relationship for years to come.” “Georgia’s growth in recent years has been impressive, thanks in part to its welcoming business climate for foreign investors,” said Rep. Green. “Breaking commitments to American companies in Georgia would undermine the U.S.-Georgia relationship that both parties have worked to develop. My hope is that Georgia will see fit to honor the rule of law with respect to Frontera Resources, and that the U.S.-Georgia relationship will remain strong and be mutually beneficial for both countries.” ###
10.13.2017	I believe President Trump’s decision to de-certify the Iran nuclear deal is the right decision at this time. It is not in the interests of the United States to enable Iran a patient pathway towards acquiring a nuclear weapon. The regime in Iran has proven time and again that it cannot be trusted and that its true interests are to undermine its international obligations and expand its influence over the Middle East. Through decertification we are sending Tehran a strong signal that the United States will not appease Iran’s threatening behavior. I also applaud the President’s designation of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, better known as the IRGC, for terrorist activity pursuant to Executive Order 13224 – a step I proposed in my bill H.R. 478 earlier this year. The IRGC is a leading cause of instability in the Middle East through its support of the murderous regime in Syria, its development of ballistic missiles, and its provocative action towards our sailors transiting the region. It is past time we hold this band of thugs to account. And that’s just the way it is. Congressman Ted Poe serves as the Chairman of the subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
10.12.2017	“It’s high time that action is taken on the San Jacinto Waste Pits Superfund Site,” said Rep. Poe. “This decision by the EPA will benefit the entire community and ensure highly toxic dioxin contamination is removed from our environment. The heavy flooding experienced during Hurricane Harvey may have led to the spread of these dangerous toxins, proving that the time for action on these waste pits is now. The companies that have contributed to this pollution should be forced to foot the bill for this costly clean up.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – After a late night meeting with leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives, and consulting with Governor Abbott, members of the Texas delegation have identified nearly $15 billion of emergency funding for Texas to be included in the emergency disaster funding bill expected to be voted on later today in the House. In a telephone call with members of the Texas Delegation, Governor Abbott expressed his commitment to continuing to work with the Texas Congressional Delegation and Congressional Leadership to ensure that Texas has the resources needed to recover and rebuild. The measure includes $11 billion to pay anticipated claims for flood insurance for Texans victims of Hurricane Harvey, and an estimated $4 billion for the FEMA disaster relief fund for Texas. The new FEMA funding for Texas will provide direct housing assistance, home repairs, debris removal and public assistance grants to eligible communities to begin repairs of roads, utility work, schools and public buildings. The flood insurance program is expected to run out of money within weeks – meaning Texas claims would not be paid – and FEMA funding will be exhausted soon due to the faster than expected drawdown to address Hurricane Maria claims. In addition to the $15 billion, Texas cities will also have access to a $4.9 billion pool for grants for Community Disaster Loans. These loans help communities with revenue losses due to disasters, so the communities can pay for police and fire protection and other critical local needs during their recovery. “Today, I joined my colleagues in the House to approve a second disaster relief funding package that includes emergency funding for Texas,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “This package provides short term, emergency help for Texans affected by Harvey – including continuing funding for FEMA – and more money is expected soon to help Texas. Within the last 24 hours, House leadership has committed to Governor Abbott and to the Texas delegation that it will bring up a third, targeted relief package in the coming weeks, ensuring that Texas’s funding concerns will be satisfactorily addressed. I will hold my colleagues in the House to their commitment and will not rest until Texas receives the full amount of federal aid that we need.” # # #
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representative Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Reps. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Kevin Brady (R-TX), Al Green (D-TX), filed H.R. 3940, the bipartisan Veterans Education Disaster Act, which ensures that veterans continue to receive the housing stipends and supply fee payment waivers that they are entitled to receive when they face extended school closures due to natural disasters. Recent natural disasters have ravaged our towns, cities, and communities, leaving them in a state of turmoil and destruction. Homes, small businesses, and schools have all been impacted, and many remain closed today. When educational institutions close, our veterans are often displaced, and in many cases, forced to take online classes. This may be fine for the average student, but veterans education assistance is based upon their presence in a physical classroom. When they can no longer attend classes, based on circumstances outside of their physical control, they are only eligible for half of the available funding, leaving them scrambling to pay their rent and bills. The Department of Veterans Affairs currently has a 4-week waiver that would allow veterans to receive their full Basic Housing Allowance despite taking online courses after natural disasters. The Veterans Education Disaster Assistance Act extends this waiver to cover the entire semester. "In the face of natural disaster, no veteran should suffer because of school closures,” said Rep. Poe. “In Texas’s Second Congressional District, Lone Star College-Kingwood was stricken by Hurricane Harvey and left inaccessible. Veterans who seek to physically attend classes were forced online; the school was inaccessible for the foreseeable future until repairs could be made. This simple, yet necessary legislation provides relief to student veterans who are simply trying to continue their education, but are denied assistance based on circumstances outside of their control.” “This year alone in Oregon we’ve seen destructive snow storms, excessive heat, and horrific wildfires each bring our communities to a halt for days, weeks and sometimes months on end,” said Rep. Kurt Schrader. “Dealing with the fallout from any natural disaster is difficult enough for anyone. For our veterans in school, however, it can mean an inability to pay rent or put food on the table, on top of the difficulties they, like all their neighbors, may already face with post-disaster cleanup. Our bill provides a common sense fix to help our veterans who could otherwise be left high and dry.” This legislation is endorsed by the Student Veterans of America. ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Reps. Brian Babin (TX-36), John Culberson (TX-07), Al Green (TX-09), Gene Green (TX-29), and Pete Olson (TX-22) introduced the bipartisan Texas Flood Accountability Act of 2017, requiring the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, San Jacinto River Authority, and City of Houston, among others to submit a report within 90 days for all dams, reservoirs, lakes and other water retention facilities in the Southeast Texas region. This bill requires that these entities report on the water capacity, overflow levels, notification processes during flood emergencies, and recommendations to prevent future unplanned releases of water from the facilities. Failure to submit this information will result in a loss of federal funding to the facility. “It is high time that the people of Texas are given answers,” said Rep. Poe. “While 50 inches of rain will substantially impact any city, the people of Texas are left wondering what improvements to existing facilities could have prevented some of the severe flooding that occurred. We cannot move forward until we figure out exactly what went wrong and whether it can happen again. We must not only improve our existing infrastructure but take the steps necessary to build one or even two additional reservoirs. The Texas Flood Accountability Act will give Texans affected during Harvey answers to these questions and help them to move forward with the recovery process.” “I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing the Texas Flood Accountability Act. This bill is an important first step in reviewing policies and procedures regarding the operation of dams and reservoirs and how to best manage them in a way that leads to less flooding,” said Rep. Babin. “Last week, my staff and I volunteered to help Houstonians cleanup their flooded homes," said Rep. Culberson. "Many of those residents described the heartbreaking experience of watching water rise in their house upon the release of the Addicks and Barker dams. While the controlled release of the dams saved much of the Houston area from flooding, it left these Houstonians with several feet of water in their homes. This legislation will require the Army Corps of Engineers to study Houston area water retention infrastructure, including the Addicks and Barker Reservoirs, to improve understanding and provide recommendations, so we can improve our flood mitigation infrastructure and prevent this level of destruction in the future.“ “I’m pleased to join Congressman Poe and the Houston Congressional Delegation on the Texas Flood Accountability Act. We need to be proactive and invest in our flood control infrastructure to prevent the next hurricane from flooding our communities in Houston and along the Texas Gulf Coast," said Rep. Gene Green. Background: The Texas Flood Accountability Act will mandate that the Army Corps of Engineers submit a report to Congress within 90 days for all dams, reservoirs, lakes and other water retention facilities in Texas that describes: 1. The minimum water capacity that would necessitate a unplanned water release 2. The water level that the facility would “top out” or overflow 3. Existing plans in place to notify first responders, local officials, and communities of flood emergencies and projected water levels during such emergencies 4. Recommendations for infrastructure improvements and dredging for covered facilities needed to prevent future unplanned releases of water 5. Existing plans to coordinate among regional facilities during a flooding emergency The legislation would require information to be provided from the San Jacinto River Authority which operates Lake Conroe, the City of Houston which operates Lake Houston, as well as the Army Corps of Engineers which operates Addicks and Barker reservoirs. ###
09.07.2017	Congressman Poe: "The San Jacinto River Authority controls the release of water from Lake Conroe. The sudden release of water during Hurricane Harvey was done without prior notice to the affected community, to first responders, and to me. The lack of notice is unacceptable. The release of water is responsible for much of the flooding that took place down river from Lake Conroe, including Spring, Humble, Kingwood, Forest Cove, Atascocita, and other areas. For decades, we’ve been responding to floods rather than trying to prevent them. All of the various government agencies and elected officials from all levels of government need to come together to design a long term plan to the issue of flooding and how to pay for it. To prevent this from happening again, some of the ideas that must be considered are: one or more reservoirs in the northwest area, dredging of Lake Houston and the San Jacinto River, and improving existing infrastructure at our current facilities. From a congressional standpoint, I am working with my colleagues to provide additional funding to help our communities rebuild, to help desilt Lake Houston and Lake Conroe, and to make needed infrastructure improvements. The immediate need is disaster assistance, and Congress is about to send a $15 billion funding package to the President’s desk for this purpose. This is the first of several funding streams to restore our community."
09.07.2017	Congressman Poe: "The Army Corps of Engineers controls the release of water from the Addicks and Barker Dams. The decision to release water from these dams during Hurricane Harvey was made solely by the Corps. I was not notified prior to the release of water, and I completely understand the anger and frustration expressed by the affected communities, such as Bear Creek, who have experienced multiple flooding events over the past few years. These multiple flooding events are completely unacceptable. The county and city determine how federal money will be disbursed for buyouts. I will work with those government agencies on behalf of homeowners who want to pursue a buyout. For decades, we’ve been responding to floods rather than trying to prevent them. All of the various government agencies and elected officials from all levels of government need to come together to design a long term plan to the issue of flooding and how to pay for it. To prevent this from happening again, some of the ideas that must be considered are: one or more reservoirs in the northwest area, dredging of Addicks and Barker, and improving existing infrastructure at our current facilities. From a congressional standpoint, I am working with my colleagues to provide additional funding to help our communities rebuild, to help dredge Addicks and Barker, and to make needed infrastructure improvements. The immediate need is disaster assistance, and Congress is about to send a $15 billion funding package to the President’s desk for this purpose. This is the first of several funding streams to restore our community."
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R.620, the bi-partisan ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017 out of the House Judiciary Committee. This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Poe, will curb frivolous lawsuits filed by cash-hungry attorneys and plaintiffs that abuse the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act). “The ADA is a critical law that is designed to make American businesses and facilities more accessible to the disabled,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “However, the integrity of this important law is being threatened by those who wish to make a quick buck off the backs of others. The vast majority of small businesses in America strive to serve their customers to the best of their ability – relying on the ADA as another tool to help ensure that customers with disabilities can enjoy the services that they provide. Unfortunately, unscrupulous attorneys prey on small business owners and file unnecessary lawsuits that abuse the spirit and purpose of the ADA. H.R. 620 offers a common sense fix to the problem of drive-by lawsuits by giving businesses a timeframe in which to fix the alleged infraction. If the business doesn’t fix the issue, a plaintiff can move forward with their lawsuit. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of attorneys.”
09.06.2017	Dear Neighbor, Today, I voted in support of the $7.85 billion emergency supplemental appropriations package for victims of Hurricane Harvey. The House passed H.Res. 502, Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief, by a vote of 419-3. Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of Southeast Texas, bringing 27 trillion gallons of rain on Texas over 6 days. At the height of the storm, 70% of the surface area of Harris County was underwater. Homes and businesses were destroyed, and lives will never be the same. I am proud and grateful to see Congress come together so quickly to bring much-needed aid and relief to help our communities begin to rebuild. This vote shows that we stand together in the face of tragedy, not for politics but for people. Hurricane Harvey will not defeat the human spirit or the great city of Houston. The money in the relief package will reimburse state and local agencies for life-saving responses and missions, help fund home repairs, provide speedy and low-interest loans to businesses and homeowners starting the rebuilding process, giving hope to all those affected and helping them get back on their feet. H.Res. 502 – Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief includes: Totals $7.85 billion for relief for victims of Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Louisiana $7.4 billion for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund $450 million to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners. Families and individuals who have been impacted by Hurricane Harvey are eligible for federal assistance. Below are a few resources that you can use to help you navigate the recovery process. FEMA Assistance: 3 Ways to File a Claim: Online www.disasterassistance.gov Telephone 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) In Person at Disaster Recovery Center. Find nearest one at go.usa.gov/xXczA FEMA will reimburse hotel stays for displaced individuals and families. To be eligible, register at http://bit.ly/1SQAUQJ Keep all receipts. Process hotel payments by calling 1-800-621-3362. For more information, visit http://www.femaevachotels.com/ More information on individual and household assistance can be found here. Water Damage and Insurance Claims Report Water Damage at www.ReadyHarris.org If you have flood insurance, file a claim ASAP. If you do not have flood insurance, notify private insurance anyway. Some storm-related damage may be covered. To Do: Photograph property before cleaning up and highest point of wall where water reached Keep list of serial numbers. Also keep receipts for disaster spending for 3 years Remove wet carpet and affected drywall as soon as safely possible (Cut 1 foot above high water line) If you need help with this initial work, contact TeamRubiconUSA.com or TexasRescueMap.com/MuckMap Disaster Unemployment Assistance If you are unable to work because your place of employment has been damaged or destroyed, you may qualify for Disaster Unemployment Assistance. For eligibility requirements and more information, visit https://apps.twc.state .tx.us/UBS/security/logon.do Social Security Adminstration For office closures and benefit payment information, visit ssa.gov/agency/emergency IRS Tax relief is available for victims of Harvey (individuals and businesses). You can claim a casualty loss on tax return, including for 2016 tax return. Extension filers have until January 31, 2018 to file. 401ks and similar employment-sponsored retirement plans can make loans/hardship distributions to victims and members of their families. Disaster Recovery Center Locator The Disaster Recovery Center (DRC) Locator allows individuals to search for DRCs nearest to their location. DRC Locator also provides additional information about each DRC, such as hours of operation, services offered and driving directions to the DRC. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Eligible veterans with a VA ID card needing an emergency supply of medications can go to any CVS or HEB pharmacy with a written prescription or active VA prescription bottle to receive a 14-day supply. Further assistance is available through the Heritage Health Solutions Veterans Helpline, 1-866 265-0124 A full list of resources can be found on my website here. If you need further assistance or have questions regarding the FEMA or process please feel free to call my offices at (202) 225-6565 or 281-446-0242. GOD and TEXAS,TED POEMember of CongressTEXAS
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in support of the $7.85 billion emergency supplemental appropriations package for victims of Hurricane Harvey. The House passed H.Res. 502, Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief, by a vote of 419-3. “Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of Southeast Texas, bringing 27 trillion gallons of rain on Texas over 6 days,” said Congressman Poe. “At the height of the storm, 70% of the surface area of Harris County was underwater. Homes and businesses were destroyed, and lives will never be the same. I am proud and grateful to see Congress come together so quickly to bring much-needed aid and relief to help our communities begin to rebuild. This vote shows that we stand together in the face of tragedy, not for politics but for people. Hurricane Harvey will not defeat the human spirit or the great city of Houston.” This money will reimburse states and local agencies for life-saving responses and missions, help fund home repairs, provide speedy and low-interest loans to businesses and homeowners starting the rebuilding process, giving hope to all those affected and helping them get back on their feet. Background: H.Res. 502 – Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief includes: Totals $7.85 billion for relief for victims of Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Louisiana $7.4 billion for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund $450 million to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding DACA. “President Obama’s DACA program was an unconstitutional abuse of executive power," said Congressman Poe. "It is Congress that writes the immigration laws of this country, not the President. It is past time for Congress to act to finally address our broken immigration system, including strengthening our border security, interior enforcement, and giving clarity to the “Dreamers.” Through no fault of their own, these individuals were brought to the United States where they made their home and contributed to our community. They should be able to earn the right to remain, but only through a legal process that Congress sets forth. Congress must act immediately to resolve this issue.”
08.29.2017	My office is always ready and willing to help in the aftermath of disaster; however, please note that we are not ourselves a relief agency. When a natural disaster occurs, my office works with federal, state and local government officials and tries to restore normalcy as fast as possible. My office can assist with answering questions, directing to resources and on-site assistance, and helping to navigate the FEMA process. Areas Under Evacuation Emergency Phone Numbers I need to Evacuate, Who Do I call? Evacuation of Inverness Forest Subdivison My Home has Been Flooded, Where can I go? Where Can I Report Flooding in My Home? What Schools are closed? What is FEMA Doing to Help Houston? Non-Emergency Numbers How do I Apply for Assistance? Areas Under Evacuation Mandatory Evacuations Inverness Forest Subdivision (streets north of Kingsbridge Road, including east and west Greenbrook Drive and Kenchester Drive) Northwood Pines Subdivision Voluntary Evacuations Subdivisions in the Addicks Reservoir WatershedBARKER ADDITION HEARTHSTONE PLACEBARKER CROSSING JAMESTOWN COLONYBARKERS BRANCH LAKE HARBORBARKERS CROSSING LAKES OF ELDRIDGE NORTHBEAR CREEK CENTRAL LAKES OF PINE FORESTBEAR CREEK ESTATES LAKES ON ELDRIDGEBEAR CREEK FARMS LAKES ON ELDRIDGE NORTHBEAR CREEK TRAILS LANDING AT PARK HARBORBEAR CREEK VILLAGE LANGHAM CREEK COLONYBEAR CREEK WEST MAYDE CREEK FARMSBRADFORD COLONY PARK HARBORCHARLESTOWN COLONY PARK HARBOR ESTATESCLAY HILL PARK PARK HARBOR OAKSCLAY HILLS PLAZA PARK PLACE CENTERCLAY MEADOWS PINE FOREST GREEN CONCORD BRIDGE PINE FOREST LANDINGCONCORD BRIDGE NORTH PINE FOREST VILLAGECONCORD COLONY RANCH AT BARKER CYPRESSCYPRESS PARKE SAVANNAH ESTATESELDRIDGE PARK TIMBER CREEK PLACEESTATES AT CULLEN PARK TWIN LAKESFESTE PARK AT BEAR CREEK VILLAGE VILLAGES AT LAKEPOINTFORRESTA VILLAGE WESTLAKEGEORGETOWN COLONY WESTLAKE FORESTGLENCAIRN WESTLAKE PLACEGLENCAIRN PARK YORKTOWN CROSSINGGLENCAIRN SOUTH Subdivisions in the Barker Reservoir WatershedARCADIA KINGSLAND ACRESARCADIA COURT KINGSLAND ESTATESCINCO RANCH EQUESTRIAN VILLAGE KRYSTAL LAKE ESTATESESTATES OF BAKER LANE LAKEFOREST OF KELLIWOODFLAGSTONE ESTATES LAKES OF BUCKINGHAMGREEN TRAILS LAKES OF BUCKINGHAM KELLIWOODGREEN TRAILS CROSSING MEMORIAL PARKWAYGREEN TRAILS FOREST MEMORIAL PARKWAY VILLAGEGREEN TRAILS OAKS NOTTINGHAM COUNTRYGREEN TRAILS PARK OAK PARK TRAILSGREEN TRAILS VILLAGE PARKLAKE VILLAGEHEATHERWOOD PARK PARKVIEW AT BARKER CYPRESSHIGHLAND TRAILS RICEFIELD VILLAGEKELLIWOOD STONELODGEKELLIWOOD ENCLAVE UNIVERSITY PARK WESTKELLIWOOD GARDENS WEST SIDE FORESTKELLIWOOD IN NOTTINGHAM COUNTRY WESTGREEN PARKKELLIWOOD LAKES WILLOW PARK GREENSKELLIWOOD PLACE WINDSOR PARK ESTATESKELLIWOOD TRAILS WINDSOR PARK LAKES Return to TopEmergency Phone Numbers Emergency Phone Numbers Only call 911 if you have an immediate need for medical attention or evacuation assistance. If you can't get through to 911 on first try, keep calling. Another option is to place a call to one of five numbers for the Houston Command Center of the United States Coast Guard. The numbers are: 281-464-4851 281-464-4852 281-464-4853 281-464-4854 282-464-4855 202-372-2100 When you call please provide: Name Number of people trapped Number of pets Address Phone number Return to TopI need to Evacuate, Who Do I call? URGENT: If you need assistance evacuating, contact the following numbers. Keep calling until you get through. The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) has also stated that if you are in need of immediate rescue you can call them at the following numbers: 281-464-4851281-464-4852281-464-4853281-464-4854281-464-4855Boat rescue - 713-881-3100 Return to TopEvacuation of Inverness Forest Subdivison This decision was made solely by the Army Corps of Engineers. The release of water from Addicks and Barker Dams will certainly have an impact on Texas 02. The release of this water will supposedly prevent flooding downstream, aiding in flood relief for portions of TX 02. However, it probably will cause flooding in other parts of the district, such as Bear Creek. Evacuation Notice ReadyHarris.org: This is a voluntary evacuation for all residents in the following areas of Inverness Forest Subdivsion. All streets north of Kingsbridge Road, including east and west Greenbrook Drive and Kenchester Drive. Water levels on Cypress Creek near I-45 will possibly top the levee by tomorrow morning. Residents in this area are encouraged to seek higher ground. For more information, please contact the Harris County Flood District at 713-684-4000. IN THE EVENT OF A LEVEE BREACH OR FAILURE, THERE IS POTENTIAL FOR SEVERE STREET AND HOME FLOODING. Residents should evacuate all family members and pets. In addition, they should take all medications and important papers, such as insurance policies. Maps of the flood plains can be found here: https://t.co/OasrWpUTs2 Return to TopMy Home has Been Flooded, Where can I go? Below is a list of open shelters for the Harris County area: Per the request of the City of Houston Mayor’s Office of Emergency Management, the Houston Independent School District has closed all of its Refuge of Last Resort locations due to accessibility and safety concerns. The Army National Guard is picking up the last of the evacuees from Westside High School and Revere Middle School. HISD police have locked down the remaining schools that were originally activated and per orders of the City of Houston Mayor’s Office of Emergency Management, anyone who was planning to make their way to one of our schools, should go to one of the listed multi-service centers or directly to the George R. Brown Convention Center (1001 Avenida De Las Americas). The multi-service centers have been activated by the City of Houston Mayor’s Office of Emergency Management. List of Shelters Currently Open (As of August 27 - 4 p.m.) Open American Legion Hall 14890 FM 2100 Rd. Crosby 77532 Open Crosby Middle School 14703 FM 2100 Crosby 77532 Open Dobie High School 10220 Blackhawk Blvd Houston 77089 Open First Baptist Church Highlands 210 N. Magnolia Highlands 77562 Open First Baptist Church Tomball 401 Oxford St. Tomball 77375 Open Golden Acres Bapist Church 2812 Pansy St. Pasadena 77503 Open MO Campbell Ed. Center 1865 Aldine Bender Houston 77032 Open North Shore High School 13501 Holly Park Dr. Houston 77015 Open Pasadena High School 206 South Shaver Pasadena 77506 Open South Houston Intermediate 900 College Houston 77587 Open Hawa Foundation 5880 Ranchester Drive Houston 77036 The following non-profit partners have offered to assist in staging survivors until they can moved to a shelter: Fallbrook Church12512 WaltersHouston, Texas 77014 Lyndale United Church503 ReeidHouston, Texas 77002 MD Anderson YMCA705 CavalcadeHouston, Texas 77009 Trotter Family YMCA1331 Augusta DriveHouston, Texas 77057 Community of Faith Church1024 Pinemont DriveHouston, Texas 77091 Return to TopWhere Can I Report Flooding in My Home? If you have experienced flooding inside your home from hurricane Harvey please report it to both www.readyharris.org and www.disasterassistance.gov. You also need to contact your local insurance agent. Photograph your property in order to assist in filing an insurance claim. (If safe to do so) Do what you can to prevent further damage to your property. Move furniture to higher ground, collect all important documents. If water has entered your home, move to higher ground. State and local officials are asking those in the impacted area to please remember: -Stay calm, do not panic.-Do not go into your attic – rescuers from the air cannot see you.-Safely seek higher ground if able to do so; get to a safe place.-Safely mark your roof to be seen by the air. To get rescuers’ attention, wave sheets, towels etc. Return to TopWhat Schools are closed? The best place to find a current and updated list of school closures can be out on local news outlets. KHOU's comprehensive list can be found here: http://www.khou.com/news/local/harvey-houston-school-closures/466964073 KPRC's comprehensive list can be found here: https://www.click2houston.com/weather/tracking-harvey-school-delays-closures ABC 13 comprehensive list can be found here: http://abc13.com/community/schoolclosings/ Return to TopWhat is FEMA Doing to Help Houston? Federal, state, and local search and rescue teams are operating 24/7 to reach those stranded in flooded areas. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has more than 400 Urban Search and Rescue (US&R) personnel working to save lives in south Texas. Another 500-plus personnel are in the state and are expected to be performing rescues this evening. National US&R teams, located across the United States, are trained and equipped to handle structural collapses and swift water rescues. State and local officials are asking those in the impacted area to please remember: -Stay calm, do not panic.-Do not go into your attic – rescuers from the air cannot see you.-Safely seek higher ground if able to do so; get to a safe place.-Safely mark your roof to be seen by the air. To get rescuers’ attention, wave sheets, towels etc. If you feel your life is in danger, call 911. First responders are not responding to requests for assistance received through social media, so if you cannot get through to 911 at first, keep calling. The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) has also stated that if you are in need of immediate rescue you can call them at the following numbers: 281-464-4851281-464-4852281-464-4853281-464-4854281-464-4855 The Coast Guard has over 420 personnel conducting operations in south Texas, with 16 helicopters in the air and 8 more inbound. As of 3 p.m. EDT today, the Coast Guard has confirmed rescues of more than 2,000 multi-person cases in the Houston-Galveston area. The Coast Guard also has an additional nine teams onsite doing shallow water rescues. More information on USCG rescue operations is available on their website at: http://www.news.uscg.mil/Texas/. For more information about Hurricane Harvey, go to: www.fema.gov/hurricane-harvey. Return to TopNon-Emergency Numbers Additional non-emergency number for police in Kingwood area: 832-395-1820 Call 311 for non-emergency issues. Return to TopHow do I Apply for Assistance? Residents living in the following counties are eligible to receive federal funds to help recover from Harvey: Aransas, Brazoria, Calhoun, Chambers, Fort Bend, Galveston, Harris, Jackson, Liberty, Matagorda, Victoria, Wharton, Bee, Goliad, Kleberg, Nueces, San Patricio, and Refugio counties. Residents can apply for assistance by registering online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Return to Top
08.29.2017	Click Here for Hurricane Harvey Information
08.22.2017	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) received the Lifetime Achievement Award from “Helping a Hero”, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that provides support and specially adapted homes for military personnel severely injured in the war on terror. “I am honored to receive the Lifetime Achievement Award from Helping a Hero, an organization that goes above and beyond to help our wounded warriors transition into life off the battlefield. As the son of a WWII veteran and an Air Force veteran myself, I’m proud to receive this award. But the real accolades go to those men and women who fight for nation day after day, year after year. May we do more as a nation to honor their service, remember their sacrifice, and show our gratitude.”
08.22.2017	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement regarding Presidents Trump's release of his South Asia Strategy. “President Trump’s Afghanistan speech on Monday night was a rude awakening for Islamabad," said Congressman Poe. "Those in the Pakistani military and intelligence services who thought they could keep betraying the United States while accepting billions in aid from Washington must now realize that the jig is up. For years I have championed a tougher line on Pakistan in Congress precisely for the reasons the President laid out in his speech: Pakistan supports terrorist groups of all stripes operating inside Afghanistan, providing them with money, arms, and logistical support. Despite Pakistan’s ongoing treachery, Islamabad is among the leading recipients of U.S. foreign assistance since 9/11 and is praised in some quarters of the U.S. government as a “vital” ally. This must stop – if we want to stabilize Afghanistan, we must deal first with Pakistan. President Trump’s speech marked a positive shift in U.S. policy, but it must not be limited only to words. If Pakistan does not stop aiding terrorists with American blood on their hands we must cut all aid to Islamabad, revoke their privileged status as a Major Non-NATO ally, and designate Pakistan a State Sponsor of Terrorism. And that’s just the way it is.” ###
08.17.2017	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, issued the following statement in the aftermath of the Barcelona terrorist attack. ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack, killing over 13 people and injuring 80 more. Details are still developing. "Today's act of cowardly terror and murder is heartbreaking and has become far too commonplace," said Congressman Poe. "Radical Islamic terrorists are attempting to force their ideology on others, by using any means possible. Acts of terror, by definition, strike fear and terrorize innocent people. Spanish authorities must find those responsible and prosecute them. These terrorists seek to take away freedom and liberty. They will not prevail. Other nations should use every legal means necessary to go after this evil. We must not allow them to intimidate freedom and rule the day. My hearts and prayers are with Barcelona and Spain." Congressman Poe is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Subcommittee Chairman of Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
08.12.2017	Congressman Poe posted the following statements related to the domestic terrorism attack in Charlottesville: "I’m deeply saddened by the bigotry and violence in Charlottesville. This was domestic terrorism, and I applaud the FBI for immediately opening a civil rights investigation into white supremacist James Fields. We must come together to stand up against racism and hatred. The KKK and white supremacist groups are abhorrent and what they stand for is against our nation’s values. We must be clear on that."
08.09.2017	Houston, TX-Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement regarding North Korea. "The rogue nation of North Korea is the greatest threat to U.S. national security and to the peace and stability of the entire world," said Congressman Poe. "Kim Jong-Un’s recent ICBM tests and revelations that the regime has miniaturized a nuclear warhead requires a stern and united response. I applaud recent sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council and President Trump’s adoption of Congress’s new sanctions package. These measures will apply pressure on Pyongyang that is long overdue. But there is still more to be done: China and Russia must take this urgent threat to peace seriously and enforce sanctions on North Korea to the full extent. Congress will continue working to ensure that all international actors tighten the screws against the North Korean menace and to ensure that all tools of diplomacy are brought to bear against Pyongyang in order to protect the American people and our allies abroad. The United States military must stand ready to respond to an attack by North Korea." ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement following news of North Korea’s most recent missile test. "The world can no longer stand by idly while the Kim regime in North Korea continues to destabilize the world with its dangerous saber-rattling,” said Congressman Poe. “Today we learned of yet another North Korean missile test highlighting the growing threat to global security from Pyongyang. I urge the administration to spare no effort to tighten the screws on this terrorist regime and enact the sanctions the House and Senate approved this week."
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C.- Today, U.S. Representative Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) filed H.R. 3415, the bi-partisan Megan Rondini Act, requiring hospitals to have a SAFE – Sexual Assault Forensic Examiner –available 24 hours a day/7 days a week, OR to have a plan in place to get that victim to another nearby hospital with a SAFE. The law honors young Texan Megan Rondini who committed suicide after being raped, failed by law enforcement, the University of Alabama, and the hospital. Megan Rondini was enrolled at the University of Alabama when she was raped by a man from the richest family in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. After escaping her attacker, Megan went directly to the hospital for a rape kit, and contacted the police. The Hospital did not have a SAFE, a nurse or doctor trained in forensic procedure, on staff. The DNA from her rape kit was never properly examined, and its current whereabouts are publically unknown. She was dismissed, ignored, blamed, and forgotten. Feeling like she had nowhere to turn, Megan later took her own life. “Rape is a crime that destroys the very soul of a victim,” said Congressman Ted Poe. Often times, it is a fate worse than death. A victim must relive their attack over and over again. I filed the Megan Rondini Act to ensure victims of crime have access to assistance and the ability to pursue justice. Hospitals across the country must have a SAFE on staff 24/7 or have a plan in place to get the victim to a nearby hospital that can provide forensic services. The failures that drove Megan to commit suicide must not be allowed to continue in our society. Victims must be given a voice and the ability to have evidence collected and tested to bring them justice. This legislation helps give them both.”
07.26.2017	Washington, D.C.- Yesterday, U.S. Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement following the passage of H.R. 3364, the bipartisan Countering Adversarial Nations through Sanctions Act. “Military leaders consistently name North Korea, Iran and Russia as the greatest threats to American security,” said Rep. Poe. “These rogue nations continually destabilize the world with dangerous and aggressive behavior that must be directly countered with clear and consistent U.S. leadership. This week, Congress took action by targeting these bad actors with one of the most comprehensive sanctions packages in history. With the near unanimous passage of the Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act, Congress has sent the message to these saber-rattling nations that we will not slip away into the darkness of silence.”
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2017, which included two amendments offered by Congressman Poe. Both Poe amendments passed the House unanimously. The Poe Amendments would: Instruct the Secretary of Defense to make certain surplus military equipment available to federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies for border security purposes along the U.S.-Mexico border. Withhold reimbursement funding for Pakistan unless the Secretary of Defense can certify that Pakistan is not providing military, financial, or logistical support to any individuals designated by the U.S. as a terrorist operating in Pakistan or Afghanistan. “Today, the House-passed bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act that helps to rebuild our military, increases funding to close readiness gaps, and gives our troops their biggest pay raise in eight years,” said Rep. Poe. “This bill included two of my amendments to strengthen border security and require that the Pentagon assess Pakistan’s support for known terrorists before handing over US dollars to Islamabad. Making excess military equipment available to federal, state, and law enforcement agencies along our southern border will provide much-needed support and reinforcements to the men and women who are our first line of defense. It is well known that Pakistan is a Benedict Arnold ally who supports multiple terrorist organizations, including groups that target Americans working to stabilize Afghanistan. But current limitations on military reimbursement funding to Pakistan only apply to one terrorist group: the Haqqani Network. Today, Congress took a step forward to end Pakistan’s betrayal of the US with the addition of an additional certification requirement.” Poe is a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation & Trade. ###
07.13.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 13, 2017?? CONTACT:? Karina Erickson, 202-225-6565, Karine.Erickson@mail.house.gov Nicole L’Esperance, 202-225-4811, Nicole.LEsperance@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) welcomed news that Israel and the Palestinians have reached an agreement to provide much-needed drinking water to severely water-stressed Palestinian communities, especially to those in Gaza. In May, Poe and Blumenauer led a bipartisan group of members in urging the Trump administration to prioritize the issue of water in its effort to build peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Access to water is a critical national security issue. Poor infrastructure and political instability continue to hinder safe access to water and sanitation in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip. Currently, 97 percent of the water is not safe for human consumption, and its quality is getting worse. “Water is a basic necessity for us all, and an issue of mutual interest among people on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” said Congressman Poe. “Today, we learned that such a deal has indeed been reached, which not only addresses the vital issue of access to water but could also represent a crucial confidence building measure between two adversaries. It is my sincere hope that this cooperative step will mark a new mutually beneficial chapter in the bloody history of the Holy Land.” “We’ve worked on this issue for years now, and it’s gratifying to see a tangible expression of what’s possible. While the agreement is modest in terms of the overall need, the cooperation is significant,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “The health and security implications of unsafe water and non-existent sanitation are a threat not just to people in Gaza, but to those in Israel. We hope this issue will receive the priority that it needs and that the United States builds on its successful participation.” “Bipartisan congressional leadership led by Congressmen Poe and Blumenauer that called on the Trump Administration to move quickly on water issues today bore fruit,” said Gidon Bromberg, Israeli co-Director EcoPeace Middle East. “The water now to flow into Gaza is the most critical and shows clearly that greater efforts need to be made on electricity supply to Gaza.” ###
07.11.2017	Houston –Community leaders recently gathered at the University of St. Thomas to share their thoughts with Montrose’s representative, U.S. Congressman Ted Poe. The Montrose Roundtable was Congressman Poe’s third roundtable meeting in his Congressional District. Poe initiated the community roundtables to hear directly from local leaders on issues he can assist with on a federal level. Much of the discussion centered on healthcare reform and transit. Other topics of interest included immigration, higher education, public safety, and housing affordability. The discussion gave Congressman Poe and his staff many ideas to consider for future legislation and projects. “Community Roundtables have been effective all over the district,” said Representative Poe. “There’s no better way to set community priorities and come up with solutions. I appreciate the attendees’ feedback and encourage all District 2 constituents to contact my office anytime with their thoughts and ideas.” Congressman Ted Poe represents the Second Congressional District of Texas which includes the areas of Montrose, Museum District, Rice University, portions of the Houston Heights, Washington Corridor and Memorial Park as well as Spring Branch and suburban Northern Harris County. He is a senior member of the Judiciary Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee where he serves as Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee. The meeting was featured on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page. To contact Congressman Poe’s office call 281-446-0242 or 202-225-6565
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-06) introduced H.R. 3107, the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2017 (DERA). DERA is a voluntary, competitive grant and rebate program to incentivize businesses and public entities to replace and retrofit old diesel engines. This legislation simply reauthorizes the widely-supported program - which came to an end in October 2016 - through 2022. “DERA promotes sound economic and environmental policies, while supporting American jobs”, said Congressman Ted Poe. “Diesel engines play an important role in our nation’s trade and economy by aiding in the transport of goods and supporting jobs throughout Texas and the nation. Despite their reliability and durability, older versions of diesel engines emit significant exhaust. By retrofitting older engines with newer, American-made technology, we can reduce emissions while providing substantial public health benefits and reducing fuel costs for individuals and businesses. Houston is home to one of the largest export ports in the country, the Port of Houston, which has used the DERA program to upgrade its infrastructure. This helps to reduce emissions, improve the air quality of the area, and support Texas jobs.” “DERA has proven to be good for the environment, good for public health, and good for the economy,” said Congresswoman Doris Matsui. “In Sacramento, we have seen the positive benefits of DERA’s investments firsthand. By successfully integrating cleaner, more modern diesel technology into our vehicle fleet, we are reducing damaging emissions and improving the air people breathe. I’m pleased to continue to partner with Congressman Poe on this important bipartisan effort. It’s essential that we extend this program so that local communities can continue to see its benefits.” “It is a strategic objective of the Port of Houston Authority to be an environmental leader, and DERA remains an important component of that effort,” said the Port of Houston Authority. “It has provided the assistance to replace, repower, or retrofit hundreds of diesel engines resulting in hundreds of tons of reduced emissions.” DERA funding has impacted a variety of sectors – including school buses and ports - and supported many clean diesel technologies spurring market innovation. Each federal dollar invested in DERA has leveraged as much as $3 from other government agencies, private organizations, industry, and nonprofit organizations. DERA has upgraded nearly 73,000 vehicles or pieces of equipment and saved over 450 million gallons of fuel. ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced H.R. 3000, a bipartisan bill revoking Pakistan’s major non-NATO ally (MNNA) status. In 2004, then-President Bush granted Pakistan MNNA status in an effort to get Pakistan to help the United States fight al-Qaeda and the Taliban. MNNA status is significant, granting critical benefits in the areas of foreign aid and defense cooperation. A MNNA country is eligible for priority delivery of defense material, an expedited arms sale process, and a U.S. loan guarantee program, which backs up loans issued by private banks to finance arms exports. It can also stockpile U.S. military hardware, participate in defense research and development programs, and be sold more sophisticated weaponry. Last August, then-Secretary of Defense Ash Carter withheld $300 million in military reimbursements because he could not certify that Pakistan was taking adequate action against the Haqqani network, as required by the NDAA. “Pakistan must be held accountable for the American blood on its hands,” said Congressman Poe. “For years, Pakistan has acted as a Benedict Arnold ally of the United States. From harboring Osama bin laden to backing the Taliban, Pakistan has stubbornly refused to go after, in any meaningful way, terrorists that actively seek to harm opposing ideologies. We must make a clean break with Pakistan, but at the very least, we should stop providing them the eligibility to obtain our own sophisticated weaponry in an expedited process granting them a privileged status reserved for our closest allies.” “Time and time again, Pakistan has taken advantage of America’s goodwill and demonstrated that they are no friend and ally of the United States,” Nolan said. “The fact is, the billions of dollars we have sent to Pakistan over the last 15 years has done nothing to effectively fight terrorism and make us safer. It is time to wake up to the fact that Pakistan has ties to the same terrorist organizations which they claim to be fighting. I am happy to join my colleague Congressman Poe in introducing this important legislation which will protect American taxpayer dollars and make us and the world safer.” Congressman Ted Poe represents Texas' Second District in the U.S. House of Representatives. He is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and serves as chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade.
06.20.2017	Houston –Congressman Ted Poe recently kicked off his community roundtable program in Spring Branch to hear directly from local leaders on issues he can assist with on a federal level. The Spring Branch Roundtable was Congressman Poe’s first of several roundtable meetings throughout his Congressional District. Attendees included representatives from local Super Neighborhoods, TIRZ 17, Spring Branch Management District, Memorial Assistance Ministries as well as concerned residents and law enforcement. The discussion gave Congressman Poe and his staff many ideas to consider for future legislation and projects. Much of the discussion centered on flooding and drainage assistance and community services. Other topics of interest included education and public safety. Congressman Poe plans to have these meetings throughout his district over the next several months. “I’m proud to be in my childhood home of Spring Branch for our first of many roundtables,” said Representative Poe. “There’s no better way to set community priorities and come up with effective solutions. I appreciate the attendees’ feedback and encourage all TX-2 constituents to contact my office anytime with their thoughts and ideas.” Congressman Ted Poe represents the Second Congressional District of Texas, which includes the areas of Spring Branch, Timbergrove and Lazybrook as well as Memorial Park, Montrose, portions of the Houston Heights as well as suburban Northern Harris County. He is a senior member of the Judiciary Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee where he serves as Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee. The meeting was featured on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page (insert link to photos) To contact Congressman Poe’s office, call 281-446-0242 or 202-225-6565. ###
06.16.2017	POE STATEMENT ON TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT ON U.S.-CUBA POLICY “Today’s announcement on Cuba sets the U.S. back to the failed policies of the past. To be fair, it was reassuring to see that the U.S. will keep its Embassy in Havana open, not bring back the 'wet foot, dry foot' policy, and allow American airlines to continue their direct flights to Cuba. But, today’s changes will certainly hurt American farmers and job producers. By prohibiting individual educational trips and American companies from engaging with Cuban government entities, we are stifling potential economic growth and restricting the spread of American values. If the US prohibited business transactions with nations that had concerning human rights records, we would lose many of our trading partners. We should apply our standards uniformly. The new policy changes do not punish Cuba, they hurt Americans, American enterprise, and American values." Poe is the Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee and a member of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group. ###
06.16.2017	REP. POE URGES PRESIDENT TO SANCTION MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD AFFILIATES WITH TERRORISM TIES Washington, D.C. - Earlier this week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) called for President Trump to carefully consider the designation of the Muslim Brotherhood as a Foreign Terrorism Organization (FTO) and to instead designate and sanction specific Muslim Brotherhood affiliates under Section 1(b) of Executive Order 13224. “As the Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, I am deeply concerned about terrorism carried out by Muslim Brotherhood affiliates in the Middle East,” said Congressman Poe. “However, I am also aware that certain factions of the Muslim Brotherhood embrace politics over violence, like the affiliate in Tunisia which exclusively participates in the political system. Indeed, Muslim Brotherhood affiliates operate independently of one another and must be dealt with accordingly. The President should instead use Executive Order 13224 to target those affiliates that are directly engaged in terrorist activities. Using this authority allows each individual entity to be sanctioned for their terrorism activity one by one – a more effective tool than a blanket FTO designation.” By distinguishing between MB groups that are engaged in terrorism from those who are peaceful, legitimate groups, the U.S. avoids the unintended consequence of alienating allies in the fight against global terrorism. Additionally, if a blanket FTO designation fails due to the complex nature of the MB, those affiliates that actively promote and engage in terrorism could falsely claim that they are nonviolent. “We must not yield in our fight against terrorists,” said Poe. “In this situation, it is wiser to use a scalpel than an axe. This targeted approach will be more impactful and avoid potential unintended complications.” ###
06.14.2017	Poe Statement on the Attack at the Congressional Baseball Practice "This morning, James T. Hodgkinson of Illinois opened fire at the Republican team’s practice for the congressional baseball game, a nearly 100 year old bipartisan charity event that raises hundreds of thousands of dollars. This attack was deliberate, and Republican Members of Congress and their staffs were the targets. Five people were wounded, including Majority Whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana, Zachary Barth with Rep. Roger Williams (TX-25), Matt Mika, Special Agent David Bailey, and Special Agent Crystal Greiner. If it wasn’t for the Capitol Police Officers who were at the baseball practice as part of Whip Scalise’s security detail, many lives could have been lost today. Those officers are heroes. I commend the Capitol Police Department, Alexandria Police Department, and first responders who helped treat the wounded, and I am grateful for their service. I continue to pray for the swift recovery of those wounded this morning. No Member of Congress will be deterred from their service to this nation because of this morning’s attack. We need to put the hostile and inflammatory rhetoric aside and debate issues in a civil manner. We all stand united in shock and horror, but we are united to continue our service to this nation that we all love." ###
06.13.2017	CONGRESSMEN POE AND COHEN INTRODUCE JANES LAW Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), introduced H.R. 2829, “Jane’s Law.” This bipartisan legislation works to close loopholes that allow individuals to cross state lines after a divorce or separation proceeding in order to avoid paying court-ordered distributions. The bill’s namesake, Jane Maharam, knew the realities of this all too well. Her husband of 31 years, Robert Maharam, raided their New York home and stole marital assets like money, investments and furnishings. After a 15-year court battle, the court ordered that Robert return millions of dollars back to Jane. However, instead of returning the assets, Robert fled across state lines. As long as he did not return back to New York, Jane will would never see any of what he owed her because the warrant for Robert’s arrest could not be enforced over state lines. “Jane Maharam was left with nothing when her husband snuck off into the night, forcing her to rely on public assistance,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “There are many spouses, like Jane, who find themselves victims of such injustice. Jane’s Law takes a much-needed step forward providing Federal enforcement to retrieve stolen marital property, illegally taken across State lines. No longer will lowlifes be allowed to outrun the law. Much like the ways child support legislation works, under Jane’s Law, fleeing to avoid payment is a federal crime. It is time to put a stop to this shameful practice.” “Too many Americans find themselves in the same shoes Jane Maharam was in more than 2 decades ago,” said Congressman Cohen. “By fleeing the state, her ex-husband escaped his legal responsibilities and the courts were unable to enforce the law. It is time we close that loophole and ensure women in similar situations get the justice they deserve.” Co-Chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) also co-sponsored the legislation. “Ex-spouses who intentionally and deliberately flee their state to evade payment are breaking the law, plain and simple,” said Congressman Costa. “We cannot let these offenders evade justice as well. Jane’s Law is an important step in dismantling the wall of legal technicalities offenders have been hiding behind for years.” ###
06.12.2017	CONGRESSMAN POE ANNOUNCES HIRING OF WOUNDED WARRIOR FELLOW Houston, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced the hiring of Viviana Burkett through the House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program as a Veterans’ Liaison. “Viviana was hired through the House of Representative’s Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program and was selected after a competitive process for her commitment to ensuring that military and veteran constituents have access to our federal government and the care that they deserve and have earned,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Viviana honorably served our country in the United States Navy for four years followed by three years in the Navy Reserves. In 2009, as part of her tenure, she served in Afghanistan, fighting the global war on terrorism. Viviana will be responsible for veterans’ casework matters and veterans’ outreach. Viviana also speaks fluent Spanish and will be able to help Spanish-speaking constituents with any casework matters. I’m honored and excited to welcome Viviana to the team.” ###
06.12.2017	Today, Ranking Member Bill Keating and Chairman Ted Poe of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation & Trade sent the attached letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson reaffirming their commitment to Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). They were joined by members of the Subcommittee, Reps. Frankel (D-FL), Cook (R-CA), Boyle (D- PA), Zeldin (R-NY), Titus (D-NV), Perry (R-PA), Torres (D-CA), and Schneider (D-IL). Under Article 5’s commitment clause, member states commit to common defense in the face of an attack on another member state. NATO invoked Article 5 for the first and only time to-date following the September 11 terrorist attacks. “Our European partners are perhaps more critical now than ever to the security of the United States, as well as to our collective security,” said Ranking Member Keating. “We simply cannot tackle the external threats we face today alone. The recent NATO summit showcased our European allies’ commitment to our common defense and we should demonstrate no less. I am proud to be joined by my colleagues on the Subcommittee in sending a clear, bipartisan message to the Administration and to our allies that we are firm in our commitment to NATO’s Article 5 because we understand that it is necessary for ensuring our security here at home.” "Today, NATO is engulfed by threats like never before,” said Chairman Poe. “Whether it be Russian aggression on its eastern flank, a resurgence of international terrorism on an unprecedented scale, or Iran's dangerous ballistic missile program, it is clear that we must band together. We must recommit ourselves to the founding principles of NATO and to the core tenet of shared security represented in Article 5. It is my firm belief that a united NATO can successfully overcome these threats, but that a divided alliance will be vulnerable and ultimately falter."
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-MO) introduced H.R. 2803, the Abolish Human Trafficking Act. The bill is a companion to legislation filed today in the Senate by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX). The legislation reauthorizes programs established and modified under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. “Congress must take a stand for victims of sex trafficking by reauthorizing these important programs that provide support to human trafficking victims,” said Congressman Poe. “Our goal is to break the cycle of exploitation while restoring the lives of these innocent women and children. Our law enforcement must have the proper tools to prevent dastardly criminals from exploiting others, whether they be the buyer or seller. Modern day slavery has no place in America.” “In order to combat human trafficking, we need to get serious about equipping our health care providers, judges, and law enforcement officials with the tools they need to effectively identify and investigate cases,” said Congresswoman Wagner. “The Abolish Human Trafficking Act reauthorizes important victim services and allows law enforcement to better address organized human trafficking. Together, we can educate stakeholders on the realities of the commercial sex industry and break the cycle of sexual exploitation in America.” The Abolish Human Trafficking Act is a continuation of the work done with Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act sponsored by Congressman Poe and signed into law in 2015. Specifically, The Abolish Human Trafficking Act: Reauthorizes the DOJ Domestic Trafficking Victims’ Fund which is financed through fines on convicted human traffickers and sexual predators. Requires mandatory restitution for victims of commercial sexual exploitation offenses. Enhances statutory maximum penalties for several human trafficking offenses. Gives law enforcement additional tools to target criminal street gangs involved in organized human trafficking and sexual exploitation. Establishes Human Trafficking Coordinators at every US Attorney’s office as well as a Human Trafficking Coordinator at the DOJ. Mandates regular reporting on human trafficking crimes. Permanently authorizes the Human Trafficking Advisory Council.
05.26.2017	Bipartisan Bill Sanctions Financial Backers of Hamas WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Ted Poe co-sponsored the Palestinian International Terrorism Support Prevention Act, introduced by Congressmen Brian Mast (FL-18), Josh Gottheimer (NJ-5), Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (CA-39) and Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (NY-16) introduced The bipartisan bill imposes sanctions on foreign persons, agencies and governments that assist Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad or their affiliates. “It’s time we get serious about Palestinian terrorism,” Rep. Poe said. “Groups like Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad have spent decades murdering Israelis, targeting innocent civilians with suicide bombings, rocket attacks, stabbings, and any other method by which they could spill blood. Time and again, Americans have also been killed at the hands of these murderous terrorists. But we have done little to urge the Qataris to stop their support for these terrorists. Over the years, our allies in Doha have provided official support, funding, and safe haven to Hamas with impunity. The number one state sponsor of terrorism in the world, Iran, has also spared no effort to arm Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad so that they could maximize their killing sprees. I am proud to support the Palestinian International Terrorism Support Prevention Act that will make countries like Qatar, Iran, and others pay a price for their support for terrorism. In the fight against terrorist there is no middle ground. If you support terrorism, justice will eventually be served.” “Following my service in the U.S. Army, I chose to volunteer alongside the Israeli Defense Forces because our countries share the common ideals of freedom, democracy and mutual respect for all people. Hamas preaches destruction to Israel and death to the values we hold dear in the United States. They have murdered more than 400 Israelis and at least 25 American citizens.” Rep. Mast said. “This bipartisan bill is proof that confronting hate – and supporting our ally Israel – is not an issue of left versus right; it is always will be an issue of right versus wrong.” “I’m proud to lead on this effort to weaken Hamas, a heinous terrorist network responsible for the death of far too many innocent civilians, both Israeli and American,” Rep. Gottheimer said.“Our bipartisan bill will ensure that anyone who provides assistance to this enemy of the United States and our vital ally Israel will face the strength and determination of our country.” “Hamas is a deadly terrorist organization that uses civilians as human shields,” Chairman Royce said. “It is an Iranian proxy that has attacked Israel and the United States. Today’s important legislation further isolates Hamas and its backer Iran – the world’s leading state sponsor of terror. It is very simple: Anyone who funds or supports Hamas should face U.S. sanctions.” “Palestinian terrorism represents a grave threat to Israeli security and the prospects for a two-state solution,” Ranking Member Engel said. “Congress must work to stop international support for Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, and foreign supporters of these organizations must understand the risks associated with perpetuating this perverse violence. I welcome the work of Congressman Mast and Congressman Gottheimer in addressing the threats posed by Palestinian terrorism to Israel and to American interests in the Middle East, and I look forward to seeing this bill move forward.” Hamas is a foreign terrorist organization and specially designated by the United States government as a global terrorist. The organization is responsible for the death of more than 400 Israelis and at least 25 United States citizens. The Palestinian International Terrorism Support Prevention Act requires the President to submit to Congress an annual report for the next three years identifying foreign persons, agencies or instrumentalities of a foreign state who knowingly and materially assist Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or an affiliate or successor of one of those organizations. After identifying the organizations, the President must impose two or more sanctions, including denying a) Export-Import guarantees, b) defense support under the Arms Export Control Act, c) export of munitions to any agreement to which a person identified is a part, d) export of goods or technology controlled for national security reasons, e) loans more than $10 million, or f) seizure of property held within the United States. The bill also requires the President to report to Congress on each government that provides support for acts of terrorism and provides material support to Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any affiliate or successor organization, or the President determines to have engaged in a significant transaction to knowingly and materially provide support to Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad or any affiliate or successor organization. After identifying the governments, the President must suspend U.S. assistance to that government for one year, instruct the executive directors of each international finance institution to vote against any loan or technical assistance to that government and prohibit any munitions export to that government for one year. Additionally, the President must prohibit that government’s transactions in foreign exchanges that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States and prevent that government’s transfers of credits or payments between financial institutions subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. ###
05.17.2017	CONGRESSMAN POE RELEASES STATEMENT ADDRESSING COMEY MEMO WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding the memorandum written by former FBI Director James Comey: “As a former prosecutor and Judge, I know it is essential to have all the facts before reaching to a conclusion. A formal request has been made to the FBI asking for the release of all memos, notes, summaries, and recordings referring or relating to any communications between Comey and President Trump. However, Congress must have the opportunity to review the original memorandum in question and have former FBI Director Comey testify under oath in front of the appropriate committees.” ###
05.16.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact Poe: Karina Erickson, 202-225-6565 Contact Cornyn: Drew Brandewie, 202-225-3265 WASHINGTON- Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2253 the Back the Blue Act of 2017, a bill that would increase the penalties for criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, and provide new tools for officers to protect themselves. The legislation also approves grant funding to foster relationships between the police departments and the local communities. In the first five months of 2017, 44 officers have been killed in the line of duty, including two Texas lawmen. Just last month, Houston’s own Assistant Chief Deputy Clint Greenwood (Harris County Constable’s Office, Precinct 3) was ambushed, targeted specifically because he wore the uniform. In January, Little Elm Police Department Detective Jerry Walker was shot responding to the scene of a shootout. These brave men’s lives may be gone, but their memory serves as a reminder of all those who give their lives for the thin blue line. “As a prosecutor and Judge for over 30 years, I have had the privilege of working alongside some of America’s best, the men and women in blue," said Poe. “Each day they wake up, place the badge—the shield—over their heart and head out into our communities to protect us. The dastardly criminals who intentionally target those who serve the thin blue line must not be allowed to walk free. The Back the Blue Act increases the punishment for those who seek to harm our peace officers. Today, Congress is sending the message that blue lives matter.” “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to protect and serve families across Texas. Violent criminals who deliberately target those who protect and serve our communities should face swift and tough penalties and the Back the Blue Act sends that clear message. Every day, and particularly during National Police Week, we must give the men and women in blue our unparalleled support,” Sen. Cornyn said. The Back the Blue Act of 2017 is endorsed by: Fraternal Order of Police, Major County Sheriffs of America, Major City Chiefs of America, Sergeants Benevolent Association, National Association of Police Organizations, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. ### Background on the Back the Blue Act Strengthens Laws to Protect Police Officers Creates a new federal crime for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to the death penalty and a mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years if death results; the offender would otherwise face a minimum sentence of 10 years. Creates a new federal crime for assaulting a federally funded law enforcement officer with escalating penalties, including mandatory minimums, based on the extent of any injury and the use of a dangerous weapon. However, no prosecution can be commenced absent certification by the Attorney General that prosecution is appropriate. Creates a new federal crime for interstate flight from justice to avoid prosecution for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years for this offense. Creates a Specific Aggravating Factor for Federal Death Penalty Prosecutions Clarifies that the murder or attempted murder of a law enforcement officer or first responder is a statutory aggravating favor for purposes of the federal death penalty. Limits Federal Habeas Relief for Murders of Law Enforcement Officers Imposes time limits and substantive limits on federal courts’ review of challenges to state-court convictions for crimes involving the murder of a public safety officer, when the public safety officer was engaged in the performance of official duties or on account of the performance of official duties. These changes are consistent with the fast-track procedures created in 1996, which are applied to federal death penalty cases. Limits Recovery of Certain Damages and Fees for Individuals Engaged in Felonies Limits the type of civil damages and attorney’s fees recoverable by a criminal as a result of purported injuries incurred during the commission of a felony or crime of violence. Expands Self-Defense and Second Amendment Rights for Law Enforcement Officers Allows law enforcement officers, subject to limited regulation, to carry firearms into federal facilities and other jurisdictions where such possession is otherwise prohibited. Opens Up Funding to Strengthen Relationships Between Police and Communities Expands opportunities to use grant funding to promote trust and improve relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve
05.15.2017	Houston, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) urged President Trump to address the deteriorating human rights situation in Turkey during his meeting with Turkish President Erdogan. “Turkey is one of the United States’ most critical allies, but its devolution to dictatorship is very concerning,” said Congressman Poe. “Unfortunately, in recent years, the Turkish government has undermined the rule of law, destroyed checks and balances, and trampled on the civil liberties of the people of Turkey. At the same time, Turkey is on the front lines against ISIS and straddles the divide between the Middle East and Europe, making its slide towards authoritarianism all the more troubling. I urge the President to bring these issues to light for the sake of Turkish democracy and our bilateral and NATO alliances.” Read the Full Letter Here
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA). “Seven years ago, President Obama signed Obamacare into law, promising government health care for all, a fraudulent entitlement that he knew could not be delivered. In the years since, the Affordable Care Act has failed and imploded faster than anyone ever imagined. Skyrocketing premiums, lower quality of care and job killing regulations are just a few of the ways Obamacare has burdened individuals and businesses. This law is not sustainable, and doing nothing is not an option, so today we voted to repeal the failing Obamacare system and replace it with one that offers affordable, quality care. This repeal and replace legislation is a step in the right direction with further administrative reforms and separate legislation also needed down the road. I supported the bill for a number of reasons: For starters, this bill helps to make premiums affordable for everyone by providing tax credits. Texas has the highest number of uninsured Americans of any state in the nation. Millions of Texans lack health insurance because they either can’t afford to purchase it or they are not covered by an employer. This legislation provides the uninsured with an opportunity to buy health insurance in an affordable way with tax credits if they choose to do so This bill also sets aside $85 billion dollars for the purpose of providing tax credits for Americans over 50 who are not insured by an employer or on Medicaid to help them buy insurance that they may not be able to afford otherwise. The American Health Care Act empowers individuals to make their own decision on whether or not they want to purchase health insurance. In my opinion, the individual mandate is unconstitutional. This bill removes that. Furthermore, it eliminates the employer mandate, which required employers to purchase health insurance for their workers or pay a penalty and which has forced businesses to not create new jobs, fire employees, or even close their doors. Contrary to the heated, false rhetoric, this bill protects Americans with pre-existing conditions by ensuring that health insurers cannot deny coverage to people solely because of a pre-existing condition. As a cancer patient myself, I know the importance of this, and I know how important it is for the 27% of Americans with preexisting conditions. The bill also includes a provision that prevents insurance companies from charging higher premiums to individuals based on the fact that they have a pre-existing condition. The legislation permits states to apply for a waiver of this prohibition through the Department of Health and Human Services, but only if the state has chosen to offer another coverage option, like risk-sharing pools or reinsurance. No matter what: no person can be charged more money based on a pre-existing condition if they maintain continuous insurance coverage. In fact, the legislation allocates $138 billion for risk-sharing programs which help protect those with preexisting conditions. It also allows young Americans under age 26 to stay on their parents’ insurance plans. Under Obamacare, the federal government seized the power to determine the ten essential health benefits that insurance companies were mandated to cover. This bill transfers that power to the states, who can apply for an exemption to these mandates if they have a high-risk insurance pool to help ensure coverage for their citizens. It also provides $15 billion in safeguards to cover coverage costs for mental health care, substance abuse, and/or maternity care. The bill defunds Planned Parenthood and redirects $500 million to community health centers, which are spread across our district and the nation. These centers provide important women’s health and cancer screenings. The bill also expands tax-free health care savings accounts for those with high-deductible insurance plans. It doubles the amount that individuals can contribute to their accounts. This bill gives Americans the choice over whether or not they buy health care, and it provides extensive resources and financial incentives for them to be able to do so. Obamacare has failed; it is time for a new path forward driven by individuals and their doctors, not politicians in Washington. This bill is the first step forward on that path.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Rob Wittman (R-VA), Gene Green (D-TX) and Allen Lowenthal (D-CA) introduced legislation (H.R. 2286) intended to advance the capabilities of two-year community and technical colleges to assist the federal government and industry in securing the talent pipeline for domestic maritime industry jobs. “There are over 56,000 direct maritime related jobs at the Port of Houston alone,” said Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX). “As the workforce grows, students must be ready to enter the maritime industry with job ready skills. This legislation simply gives local community and technical colleges the resources to effectively prepare their students. As Co-Chairman of the PORTS Caucus, I recognize that this legislation takes an important step forward in ensuring future workforce growth for the Port of Houston and ports across the nation.” "A well-trained, skilled maritime workforce is critical for our nation's economy and national security," said Rep. Wittman. "Advancing the capabilities of community and technical colleges - such as Rappahannock and Tidewater Community College - to assist the federal government and industry in securing the talent pipeline for the domestic maritime industry will mean more shipbuilders and repairmen to sustain and expand trade and grow our Navy's Fleet. Ship yards in Virginia and around the country will benefit from the injection of workers our new centers of excellence will provide so that we remain a prosperous maritime nation." “In our district we have a surplus of maritime jobs and not enough people with the skills and training to fill them,” said Rep. Green. “The industry is continuing to invest and grow along the Port of Houston, and we want to make sure that our constituents have the opportunity to take these high skilled jobs. This bipartisan legislation will help bridge the gap. It’s good for our local community, it’s good for our businesses, and it’s good for the American economy.” “I am pleased to introduce the Domestic Maritime Centers of Excellence Act with my colleagues to bolster our maritime industry, raise up our community and technical colleges, and empower students to find well-paying jobs in this critical sector of the American economy,” said Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA). “Strengthening this workforce is essential to maintaining our nation’s goods movement system and vital to our national defense.” Key industry leaders also backed the legislation, highlighting the urgent need to grow the maritime workforce. “The Port of Virginia is handling record cargo volumes, and to meet the growth the port is investing in its terminals to increase the annual capacity by 1 million container units by 2020,” said Virginia Port Authority CEO and Executive Director John Reinhart. “The port and its related industry will need a skilled, educated and expanding workforce to complement this growth. This legislation is important because it would make additional resources available to programs like the Southeast Maritime and Transportation Center at Tidewater Community College to meet the demands of Virginia’s rapidly expanding maritime industry.” "The recruitment and development of shipyard workers is critical to the future of the U.S. shipbuilding and repair industry," said President of the Shipbuilders Council of America (SCA), Matthew Paxton. "Empowering MARAD to recruit, train and develop the next generation of workers will provide a stable workforce and ensure there is sufficient talent to build our commercial and military ships for decades to come."
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) introduced the bipartisan Sam Farr Peace Corps Enhancement Act (H.R. 2259) to improve the health, safety and well-being of current and returned Peace Corps volunteers. Peace Corps volunteers represent what is best about America. They give years of their lives to help others whom they have never met, building goodwill across the globe for the United States. After Nick Castle, a 23-year-old Peace Corps volunteer teaching in rural China, fell violently ill in January 2013, no one recognized the severity of his symptoms and he passed away. A 2014 Peace Corps Inspector General report found that Nick was the victim of medical negligence and exposed “failures and delays in treatment” that ultimately led to his death. “After Nick’s death, it became clear that the Peace Corps staff was not properly trained or equipped and failed to respond,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “When young American Peace Core volunteers head overseas, they must know that the U.S. government has their back. In 2011, Congress took a historic step in passing the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act, but there is more work to be done. This bill will go even further to both keep volunteers healthy and to ensure that those who have experienced sexual assault have the assistance and protection that they need.” “Wearing the Peace Corps badge around the world, volunteers export the shared values that make us strong and leave a positive impact that remains long after they return home,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy III. “With the bipartisan Sam Farr Peace Corps Enhancement Act, we will not only support and protect current volunteers, but extend their reach into vulnerable communities and countries. I am deeply grateful to my colleague, Congressman Ted Poe, for his continued advocacy for an organization so near and dear to my heart.” In recent years, the Peace Corps has made many good-faith efforts to reform its operations, improve its efficiency, and increase support for volunteers in the field. However, more remains to be done to improve health care for both currently serving and returned volunteers. For example, due to restrictions in current law, the Peace Corps cannot comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention regarding how it administers anti-malaria medication to volunteers. Also, returned volunteers who go through the Department of Labor to get treatment have trouble getting the care they need. More specifically, the Sam Farr Peace Corps Enhancement Act: • Requires that Peace Corps volunteers have access to a qualified Peace Corps Medical Officer and medical facilities while they are at post; • Enhances access to health care for returned Peace Corps volunteers (RPCVs) by extending Peace Corps medical coverage from 3 months to 6 months while they wait for coverage through the Department of Labor to take effect; • Expands and improves provisions of the Kate Puzey Peace Corps' Volunteer Protection Act to enhance the Peace Corps’ ability to assist and protect volunteers that have experienced sexual assault; • Increases disability payments for RPCVs that are disabled and unable to work due to service-related conditions; and • Provides further reforms to improve oversight, management and efficiency of the Peace Corps. ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Georgia Caucus, sent a bipartisan letter to President Trump commemorating the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Georgia. Georgia Caucus Co-Chairman Gerald Connolly (D-VA) and 28 other Members of Congress joined the letter. “Today dozens of my colleagues joined me in sending a bipartisan letter to President Trump commemorating the 25th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Georgia,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “For the past 25 years, Georgia has been one of our most steadfast partners in an increasingly turbulent region. As co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Georgia, I have seen firsthand the strides that Georgia has made in developing democratic institutions and strengthening economic growth. Such accomplishments are made even more impressive considering that Georgia has had to maintain the safety and security of its citizens in the face of ongoing Russian aggression. Despite such challenges, Georgia remains a vital U.S. security partner. I proudly stand with Members of the House Georgia Caucus and friends of Georgia to reaffirm this valued partnership.” “I am glad to celebrate 25 years of diplomatic relations between the United States and Georgia, and urge the Administration to reaffirm this important partnership,” said Congressman Connolly. “Whether building its own democratic institutions, fostering economic growth through trade with the U.S., or contributing troops to regional security efforts, Georgia has been and continues to be a valued and strategic partner.” Text of the letter is available here
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the H.R. 2152, the Citizens Right to Know Act. Each year, millions of U.S. taxpayer dollars are spent towards the operation of pre-trial release programs– government-funded programs that allow accused criminals to await their trial at home. These programs—filled with many cases that involve repeat, violent and hardened criminals— often operate with little oversight. As a result, taxpayers are literally bailing out dangerous criminals around the country. In some instances, those released commit terrible crimes while on pretrial release or never bother returning for their court date. With increased oversight of the pre-trial release program, these crimes can be avoided. “The federal government has engaged in the ultimate taxpayer bailout, a bailout for hardened criminals with no respect for the rule of law,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “From sexual assault to flat out murder, these criminals belong in jail. Once free from the threat of prison, there is nothing to prevent a wrongdoer from committing yet another crime. My bill will require record-keeping and reporting on participants in these federally funded pre-trial release programs, specifically whether the defendants have a history of criminal behavior, whether or not they actually appear for their trial, and whether they have ever failed to appear for trial in prior cases. Taxpayers deserve to know that their dollars are being spent wisely, and that their communities are being protected.”
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Doris Matsui (D-CA)and Jim Himes (D-CT) introduced the Cruise Passenger Protection Act (CPPA) to strengthen passenger safety on cruise ships. The CPPA would build on the passenger safety measures signed into law in the 2010 Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act (CVSSA). The bill strengthens crime reporting and video surveillance requirements, improves medical standards, and holds cruise lines responsible for deaths at sea. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Edward Markey (D-MA) are introducing companion legislation in the Senate. “When American citizens board a cruise ship, they expect a peaceful escape,” said Rep. Poe. “But the reality is that crime does not disappear simply because people are on vacation. Unfortunately, American passengers sometimes go missing or become victims of sexual and physical assault while sailing the high seas. The passage of the 2010 Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act took the first step in protecting the safety and security of passengers. The Cruise Passenger Protection Act builds upon this important law by implementing stronger requirements to protect victims of crime and to hold their perpetrators accountable.” “Standards for victims’ rights should be strong whether on land or at sea,” said Rep. Matsui. “The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act made important progress in strengthening protections for passengers, but we have much more work to do. This legislation strengthens existing reporting laws and raises consumer protection standards, so families have the peace of mind they deserve when they board a cruise ship. I am grateful to the victims and their families who have come forward and continue to be essential voices in our work to improve cruise safety through legislative reform.” “Many cruise ships are the size of small towns – but with few emergency services and no law enforcement, these vessels are more Wild West than Atlantis,” said Senator Blumenthal. “And when something goes wrong on a cruise ship, a dream vacation can quickly turn into a nightmare. Our legislation will ensure that consumers know the risks associated with cruise ship travel before they buy a ticket; and if their rights are violated, this bill will help ensure that they have a place to seek recourse.” “With serious safety and health incidents continuing to occur on cruise ships every year, we need to put measures in place to protect passengers who need medical services or become victims of crime,” said Senator Markey. “I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting federal legislation that puts in places basic protections for the millions of Americans who take cruises.” “Cruise ship safety strikes close to home in Connecticut’s Fourth District,” said Rep. Himes. “In 2005, a young man from Greenwich – George Smith IV – went missing while on his honeymoon cruise in the Mediterranean Sea. Since George disappeared, his family has fought tirelessly to improve safety on cruise ships and to protect cruise ship passengers. The fight continues today with the Cruise Passenger Protection Act. This bill bolsters current law with tighter crime reporting, expanded video surveillance equipment and record-keeping requirements, and streamlined tracking and public reporting of alleged crimes on cruise ships. Safety improvements like these will help prevent more avoidable tragedies.” Specifically, the CPPA would: Ensure a cruise vessel owner notifies the FBI within four hours of an alleged incident. Ensure that if an alleged incident occurs while the vessel is still in a U.S. port, the FBI is notified before that vessel leaves the port. Require vessel owners to also report an alleged offense to the U.S. Consulate in the next port of call, if the alleged offense is by or against a U.S. national. Clarify that vessels must have video surveillance equipment in all passenger common areas, and other areas, where there is no expectation of privacy. Allow individuals access to video surveillance records for civil action purposes. Mandate that all video records are kept for 30 days after completion of the voyage. Direct the Coast Guard to promulgate final standards within one year detailing requirements for the retention of video surveillance records. Require that the internet website of alleged crimes on cruise ships indicate whether the reported crimes were committed against minors. Direct the Department of Transportation to conduct a study determining the feasibility of having an individual charged with victim support services on board each passenger vessel. Require integration of technology that can both capture images and detect when a passenger has fallen overboard. Create medical standards requiring that a qualified physician and sufficient medical staff to be present and available for passengers, crew members receive basic life support training, automated defibrillators are accessible throughout the ship, and the initial safety briefing includes important emergency medical and safety information. Ensure that should a U.S. passenger die aboard a vessel, his or her next of kin could request the vessel to return the deceased back to the United States. Hold cruise lines responsible for deaths at sea by ensuring families of victims are able to pursue fair compensation. This gives cruise passengers the same rights as airline passengers. Text of the legislation can be found here. ###
04.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C., March 27, 2017 – Congressman Ted Poe cosponsored bipartisan legislation, the Combating Anti-Semitism Act of 2017, introduced by Reps. David Kustoff (R-TN) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) today. This legislation would increase the federal penalty for bomb threats and other credible threats of violence against community religious centers and ensure these acts can be prosecuted as a hate crime. “Our country was founded on the principle of religious freedom and has been a haven for all minorities since its inception,” said Poe. “The recent spate of bomb threats, vandalism, and hate crimes against the Jewish community across our nation has sought to threaten the very core values of the United States. The Jewish community has been the target of a concerning uptick of hate crimes all across our country, including in the Great State of Texas. We stand united as Americans against the perpetrators of these hateful acts and side by side with our Jewish neighbors. This important legislation will send a much needed message that antisemitism has no place in our country and that we will continue to defend and support the Jewish community against those that seek to oppose the pluralistic nature of our Republic.” “The rise in threats at religious community centers is deeply disturbing and makes it clear that existing federal laws do not suitably deter these acts of hate,” said Kustoff. “Religious tolerance is the bedrock on which our great nation was founded. We must defend the individual liberties of our neighbors of all faiths and protect places of worship, and I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation that addresses the issue head on.” “No American should be made a target because of his or her faith. Sadly, religious community centers across the country have increasingly had to lock down their facilities and call in bomb squads," said Kilmer. "I’m proud to support this bipartisan bill to ensure America remains a beacon of tolerance and respect for religion and free speech." In 2017 alone, more than 100 bomb threats and other threats of violence have been made against 81 Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) in 33 states. In addition to the fear and terror inflicted upon these institutions after a threat, there are tangible ramifications for the centers. Many JCCs are forced to temporarily close their doors as a result of these threats, and families who rely on the center’s services, such as Hebrew school and early-childhood education programs, have been forced to choose between their safety and their faith community. This bipartisan legislation would amend the Church Arson Prevention Act (18 U.S.C. § 247) to ensure that individuals who make bomb threats and other credible threats of violence against community religious centers –based on the religious nature of that center –can be prosecuted for committing a hate crime. In addition, individuals who make credible threats against religious institutions are sheltered by the current law, which limits the consequences they can face to misdemeanor charges. Under the Combating Anti-Semitism Act of 2017, new language would be added to 18 U.S.C. § 247 that would create a penalty of up to 5 years of imprisonment if any violation of the statute results in the damage or destruction of property. Click here for the bill text. ###
04.07.2017	This week, the world watched in horror as Syrian President Assad launched a chemical attack against his own people including defenseless women and children. The use of chemical weapons is not only barbaric , it is a violation of international law. Accordingly, last night, the United States responded forcefully with a targeted strike against the origin of that attack. This swift and decisive retaliation was an appropriate and proportional response to this horrific crime. This Administration has sent the message to Assad and other dictators that when they do cross that red line there will now be consequences from the United States. Congressman Ted Poe is a Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On Wednesday, Co-Chairs and Co-Founders Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) joined Patrick Meehan (R-PA) of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals who have given their time and service to helping victims. This year marks the 11th anniversary of the Caucus. The Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus (VRC) is a proven and effective leader in advocating for crime victims. During its 11-year existence, the VRC has taken the lead in protecting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA). The Caucus was also instrumental in the enactment of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, the Cruise Vessel Safety and Security Act of 2009, the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011, the SAFER Act of 2013, the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013, and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015. Each year, it hosts various briefings on victims’ rights issues, including domestic violence, child abuse, elder abuse, human trafficking as well as various other topics. It also recognizes National Crime Victims’ Rights Week with its annual awards ceremony. “Our 2017 VRC honorees are some of the most committed people in their field,” said Rep. Poe. “Their work and advocacy have inspired meaningful changes that should never be forgotten. We thank all of the awardees for their tireless efforts to ensure that victims of crimes are not just statistics. They are remembered because they are real people with real stories who have had something bad happen to them. I cannot think of a more deserving group of people to recognize. This is the 11th year that the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus has recognized advocates, service providers, and survivors – our heroes – for all of their hard work, strength, and resolve.” The awards were live streamed on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page. ### The 2017 Victim’s Rights Caucus Recipients: Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation The Lois Haight award pays tribute to California Judge Lois Haight who, as an appointee of President Ronald Reagan and Chair of his 1982 President’s Task Force on Victims of Crime, led pioneering efforts on behalf of crime victims that resulted in significant public policy advances to promote crime victims’ rights and services. The honoree is a professional whose efforts have had a significant impact on local, state, national or international public policy development and implementation that promote dignity, respect, rights and services for victims of crime. Tina Frundt, Courtney’s House Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) Tina Frundt was 14 years old when she was forced into prostitution. Like so many trafficking victims, she was lured away from the safety of her home by a man she thought she knew and trusted. Tina was eventually discovered by police and taken away from her traffickers, only to find herself in a juvenile detention center with no care or help. Her harrowing experience changed her forever, and she made it her personal mission to help rescue and save victims in a way that she never was. Since becoming a survivor, she has worked tirelessly to rescue, rehabilitate and fight for victims in every way she can. By operating two trafficking shelters in D.C., Tina actively uses her personal experience to connect with trafficking victims, and provide them the support, nourishment and help that they need. She has helped over 500 victims escape from sex slavery. She serves on the DC Anti-Trafficking Task Force, testifies and speaks often in support of victims’ rights and serves on the United States Advisory Council on Human Trafficking. Connie Clery, Clery Center for Security on Campus Nominated by Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Connie and the Clery Center literally changed the face of campus safety at colleges and universities across the United States after the 1986 brutal rape and murder of their only daughter Jeanne at Lehigh University by a fellow student whom she did not know. The creation of the Clery Center in 1987 was a “game changer” in the field of crime victim assistance. Through the development of sound Federal and state public policy, the Clery Center has shed light on the need for accountability of universities and colleges to keep their students safe; and has combined crime prevention, public awareness, and victim assistance in policies and programs that improve campus safety. Allied Professional Award The Allied Professional award recognizes the efforts of individuals, organizations, and/or coalitions that directly benefit victims of crime, but whom are not direct victim service providers. The honoree exhibits leadership, creativity and commitment in linking allied professions to improve the plight of crime victims in our Nation. New Friends New Life Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) New Friends New Life started in 1998 as a small church program to help women escape the sex industry. Over the years, it has expanded and grown, and now offers education, job training, financial assistance and mental and spiritual support to over 1,200 trafficked women and children each year. New Friends New Life focuses on empowering trafficking victims, providing them the resources and support they need to rebuild their lives. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award The Unsung Hero Award is in memorial of Eva Murillo, a prominent crime victim advocate from California. The honoree is a crime victim or survivor who has utilized their experiences to promote public education and awareness, public policy development and greater awareness about crime victims’ rights and needs. Sue Weidemann Nominated by Patrick Meehan (R-PA) During a massage, Sue Weidemann was sexually assaulted in West Goshen, Pennsylvania. Ms. Weidemann later learned that other clients had levied complaints of assault against the massage therapist who assaulted her. According to Ms. Weidemann, however, the company did not investigate these allegations or take action to protect its other clients. The perpetrator was sentenced in May 2016 to more than five years in prison for indecently assaulting nine women. Speaking out on behalf of all victims, Ms. Weidmann shared her victims statement in court, pledging to use her story as a catalyst to create a new lake that would require companies to report allegations of sexual assault to law enforcement. She has since worked with Rep. Meehan to help make this law a reality. Danielle Quiroga Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) In 2015, Danielle was walking to work on the University of California, Merced campus when she was stabbed twice by a student. The student stabbed three other individuals during the terrorist inspired incident. After being stabbed in her chest and back, Daniel had to be airlifted and spent almost a week recovering in the hospital and returned home. After six weeks of being at home, she suffered serious complications and had to spend over 2 months in the hospital. Today, Danielle serves as an Academic Advisor at UC Merced. She uses her experience and position as an academic advisor to help and talk with students and her colleagues about the incident. When Danielle fully recovers from her physical wounds, she plans to further her education in victimology so that she can help other victims and survivors overcome their trauma and live a fulfilling life. Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy The Stout Memorial Award is in memory of Ed Stout, the Director of Aid for Victims of Crime in St. Louis. The Honoree is a professional or volunteer whose efforts have directly benefited victims and survivors of crime. Network for Victim of Recovery of DC Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Since 2012, NVRDC has successfully strengthened the landscape of victim and survivor services here in DC, and has helped develop important partnerships that fill gaps in services for crime victims. NVRDC provides vital resources for victims and survivors in Washington, DC - ranging from hospital advocates who help sexual assault survivors to legal services and trainings to help DC advocates on responding to mass crisis crimes. Bridgette Stumpf and Nikki Charles inspire their staff and their clients. They dedicate their lives to putting victims and survivors FIRST, and provide seamless services and support for survivors in our Nation’s Capital. Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness The Public Awareness Award is in memory of Susanne McDaniel, one of the first prosecutor-based victim advocates in Texas and the nation. The honoree is an individual or organization that has used his/her/its voice, throughout the media, to promote and to bring about change at the National level for crime victims. Cindy McCain Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) Cindy McCain has dedicated her life to improving the lives of those less fortunate both here at home and abroad. Serving as the co-chair of the Arizona Governors’ Council on human trafficking and the McCain Institutes Human Trafficking Advisory Council, she is committed reducing human trafficking and improving the lives of victims of these horrendous crimes. Through her work with the McCain Institute, several partnerships have been formed with anti-trafficking organizations working on solving various aspects of the problem.
04.06.2017	Houston, TX- Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is seeking a wounded warrior or medically retired veteran for a two-year paid fellowship in his Kingwood Office. The individual chosen for the fellowship will work with the military and veteran constituents to handle veterans-related casework and act as a facilitator between constituents and federal government agencies. In addition, they will conduct outreach to the local community. “Our nation’s warriors are the best that we have,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “America's service members are a cut above the rest and we will always support them. I am pleased to work with the House of Representatives to ensure that veterans and military service personnel in Texas’s Second District have access to federal government services and the care they deserve.” The Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program was established by the House of Representatives to provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within member offices. The program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since Sept. 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and have a minimum 30% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Interested veterans should submit a resume, copy of the last DD214 issued, and letter from the VA indicating a 30 percent or greater rating, which is not necessary if medically retired, to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. More information can be found by calling the Wounded Warrior Program Office at 202-226-1965or by visiting https://cao.house.gov/wounded-warrior.
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on the passage of his bill, H.R. 479, the North Korea State Sponsor of Terrorism Designation Act of 2017. This legislation requires the Secretary of State to determine whether or not North Korea meets the criteria for a designated State Sponsor of Terrorism. It also expresses the sense of Congress that North Korea likely meets the criteria for designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. Chairman Poe: "North Korea spent 20 years on the State Sponsor of Terrorism list until 2008 when the United States foolishly removed the rogue nation in exchange for a promise that it certainly did not keep. Since then, North Korea has conducted illegal missile tests, murdered dissidents abroad, conducted cyber warfare and made threats to wipe out U.S. cities. This week, the Administration warned that the radical dictator, Kim Jong Un, could have a weapon capable of hitting the United States before the end of President Trump's first term. We cannot rely on the Chinese to handle this or wait any longer to address this threat head on. The House has taken the first step in doing so today, and I urge the Senate to act fast to get this bill to the President's desk."
03.27.2017	I have resigned from the House Freedom Caucus. In order to deliver on the conservative agenda we have promised the American people for eight years, we must come together to find solutions to move this country forward. Saying no is easy, leading is hard, but that is what we were elected to do. Leaving this caucus will allow me to be a more effective Member of Congress and advocate for the people of Texas. It is time to lead.
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1600 the Veterans Back to Work Act of 2017. This legislation would make the veterans tax credit permanent and make it easier for employers to take advantage of it. There are nearly 495,000 veterans in this country who are unemployed. 4.6 percent of all Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are without jobs. This is simply unacceptable. Congress previously passed a veteran’s tax credit to help transition our nation’s warriors back into the workforce. While well intentioned, it was temporary, this bill makes it permanent. The Veterans Back to Work Act seeks to eliminate confusion by making the tax credit permanent, and allowing employers to have the choice to collect the credit at the end of each quarter or at the end of the year, whatever makes the most sense for them. “Our nation’s warriors are the best that we have,” said Poe. “They have risked their lives to serve and protect the rest of us. It is our duty to help these heroes transition back into the American work force upon their return home. After fighting in the battlefield, the last thing a veteran should have to worry about is an unemployment line. The Veterans Back to Work Act incentivizes the hiring of our veterans with a permanent tax credit and makes the paperwork easier for businesses to do so.” ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism introduced H.R. 1449, the Pakistan State Sponsor of Terrorism Act of 2017. The bill requires the President to issue a report within 90 days detailing whether Pakistan has provided support for international terrorism. Thirty days after that, the Secretary of State is required to a submit a follow-up report containing either a determination that Pakistan is a state sponsor of terrorism or a detailed justification as to why it does not meet the legal criteria for such a designation. “Not only is Pakistan an untrustworthy ally, Islamabad has also aided and abetted enemies of the United States for years. From harboring Osama bin Laden to its cozy relationship with the Haqqani network, there is more than enough evidence to determine whose side Pakistan is on in the War on Terror. And it’s not America’s. It is time we stop paying Pakistan for its betrayal and designate it for what it is: a State Sponsor of Terrorism.” ###
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1305, a bill that would make the American Community Survey voluntary. Under the Constitution, the federal government must conduct a Census every ten years to account for the population. The decennial Census asks 10 basic questions. However, the Constitution does not authorize the federal government to issue an annual, mandatory survey to 3 million Americans, called the American Community Survey (ACS). The ACS asks each recipient dozens of extremely personal questions about mental disabilities in the home, personal financial information, whether you have a toilet and what time you leave for and return from work each day. The survey is not optional, mandatory with a criminal penalty if not completed. “The Federal Government does not have the right to force Americans to disclose personal information just because they say so,” said Rep. Poe. “This survey is another example of unnecessary and completely unwarranted government intrusion. The purpose of the Census is to apportion congressional seats and levy direct taxes. The American Community Survey does nothing to further this mission, it instead collects information on American’s toilet flushing patterns. This mandatory intrusion by the federal government is unacceptable. The American Community Survey should be optional for citizens to complete.”
03.01.2017	Congressman Poe: “I fully support an investigation into the Trump Administration's alleged ties to Russia. Congress has a duty to conduct full oversight of the Executive Branch, no matter who is in power. That is why I was supportive of Chairman Goodlatte and Chairman Chaffetz’s recent letter to Attorney General Sessions calling for an investigation into the allegations revolving around General Flynn’s contacts with Russian government officials. However, I did not support the Nadler resolution today because it is duplicative of actions already taken by the committee. I believe the intent of this resolution was purely political. Chairmen Goodlatte and Chaffetz have already requested the Justice Department Inspector General to examine the classified leaks about General Flynn. The House Judiciary Committee has also requested a briefing about Russia’s interference in the U.S. election and will explore next steps since the briefing has not yet occurred. I hope this investigation can once and for all put this matter to rest."
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman John Conyers (D-MI) along with Congressman Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Congresswoman Lofgren (D-CA), and Congresswoman. DelBene (D-WA) introduced H.R. 1110, Stop Mass Hacking Act. This is the companion bill to legislation introduced on the Senate side by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Rand Paul (R-KY). Last year, the Department of Justice moved to make an administrative rule change to Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure that would give the government the ability to hack the computers of a massive amount of American citizens just by obtaining a single warrant. The change went into effect in December. The Stop Massive Hacking Act will repeal Rule 41. “Government does not have the authority to unilaterally legalize widespread government hacking,” said Rep. Poe. “Americans have rights. It is Congress’ responsibility to safeguard the constitutional rights of the people they represent from a power hungry Executive Branch. As such, we are moving to repeal this change that condones hacking the property of the very people we are entrusted to protect.” “I continue to stand by the Stop Mass Hacking Act because I am not yet convinced that last year’s changes to Rule 41 are wise or necessary,” said Rep. Conyers. “These changes are designed to streamline investigative techniques that allow law enforcement to gain unauthorized access and control to remote computer systems. Until Congress has had an opportunity to examine the effect of these techniques in the field—and until we have adequately addressed the privacy concerns raised by my colleagues—these changes should be rolled back.” “When it comes to protecting the safety and security of American citizens, as well as respecting their Constitutional right to privacy under the Fourth Amendment, we cannot make rushed decisions – the stakes are too high,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. “Changes to Rule 41, at the very least, deserve Congressional review before going into effect.” “Any rule which allows government agents to hijack devices owned by the victims of malware attacks without their permission, or even knowledge, deserves serious deliberation and debate in Congress,” said Rep. Lofgren. These are troubling activities, and the international, privacy, and security ramifications which may arise as a result are grave.” “Just because technological advances have made it easier for the federal government to collect information doesn’t mean that our privacy rights can or should be violated,” said Rep. DelBene. “Congress has an obligation to weigh in before there are drastic changes to Rule 41 that could violate Americans’ constitutionally protected privacy rights.” ###
02.14.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact Poe: Shaylyn Hynes,202-225-6565, Shaylyn.Hynes@mail.house.gov Contact Cohen: Michael Eisenstatt,202-225-3265, michael.eisenstatt@mail.house.gov Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), co-founder of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced H.R. 1035, Extending Justice for Sex Crime Victims Act of 2016. The bi-partisan bill harmonizes the statute of limitations for sex abuse victims and sex trafficking victim minors to 28, rather than the current age of 21. Under current law, victims of both trafficking and other federal sex offenses are able to obtain justice by bringing civil claims against their perpetrators. While both sections allow claims for 10 years after the underlying offense, Section 1595 (trafficking) also allows claims until the minor is 28, but Section 2255 (other sex crimes) only permits the claim until age 21. The legislation also clarifies that the statute of limitations does not begin until the victim actually discovers the violation or the injury. “The harsh reality is that one in four women in the United States is sexually abused as a child,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Unfortunately, the vast majority of sexual abuse often goes unreported. Children are often victimized before their memories form, sometimes as young as three-years-old. The primary avenue to seek justice is the ability to file civil claims against perpetrators who harm women and children. This legislation takes the necessary steps to extend the statute of limitations consistent for reporting sexual abuse and trafficking. It is time Congress stands up and advocates for children and victims.” “Sexual abuse of children is a horrific crime that too often goes unreported,” said Congressman Cohen. “Our bill increases the statute of limitations for victims of child sex abuse to ensure that they have the time and resources they need to seek justice. Sex crimes often happen to young children who may not become fully aware of these crimes until later in their life. This is a common-sense, bipartisan bill, and I hope Congress will pass it.” ###
02.10.2017	Reintroduce the Human Trafficking Fraud Enforcement Act WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-2) and Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY-12) renewed efforts to give the federal government more funding and resources to go after pimps and traffickers with the reintroduction of the Human Trafficking Fraud Enforcement Act. The legislation gives the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) more resources to target pimps and traffickers for taxable income, as well as providing financial assistance and whistleblower protections to survivors. The two representatives were also cosponsors of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking which became law in 2015. "Human trafficking is a criminal enterprise, and like any business the answer to exposing it is to follow the money trail,” said Rep. Poe. “This bill will better equip law enforcement in their efforts to identify, track down and take down traffickers by giving the IRS more resources to go after traffickers for income. I believe this will be a valuable tool in identifying these criminals who are now able to live freely, and make money, while enslaving innocent people." “Modern day slavery is happening here, on our shores, and we must do everything we can to stop it,” said Rep. Maloney. “Pimps and traffickers are holding women captive, degrading their humanity and selling victims and their bodies over-and-over again. We must use every tool possible, including the IRS, to take down traffickers, who have often proven elusive to apprehend and prosecute. In 1931, the infamous gangster Al Capone was ultimately indicted for tax fraud. The IRS can play a similar role in cracking down on criminals profiting from human trafficking and prostitution. This bill will target the real criminals, those involved in the promotion of commercial sex acts – pimps and traffickers – and exploited persons in prostitution. ” Human Trafficking Fraud Enforcement Act Background: The bill authorizes $4 million to establish an office within the IRS to prosecute sex traffickers for violations of tax laws. The new IRS office would coordinate closely with existing sex trafficking task forces in the Department of Justice. Imposes stiffer penalties – including fines of up to $50,000 and jail sentences of up to 10 years – for traffickers who fail to file tax returns, supply tax information, or pay taxes Establishes a new felony offense for an “aggravated failure to file” in cases where income or payments are derived from criminal activities. Designates the victims of criminal sex traffickers as whistleblowers and allows them collect up to 15 percent of the fines levied against their abusers. ###
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Rep. Ted Poe (TX-2) and Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16), co-chairmen of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC), introduced H.R. 818 to protect the Crime Victims Fund from being redirected to other uses and thereby threatening to severely reduce services for crime victims of crime. The fund consists solely of criminal fines, forfeitures and other penalties, not federal tax dollars, and it has no impact on the national deficit. In other words, in the Crime Victims Fund, criminals pay for the harm they caused to victims. “The Crime Victims Fund is the lifeblood of victim service providers,” said Poe. “In 1984, Congress created a law that established the Crime Victims Fund to support victims of crime. Since then, convicted federal felons who are assessed fees and fines must pay into the Crime Victims Fund. With this money in this fund victim service providers do important work, helping victims heal, cope and persevere after a crime. H.R. 818 will help protect these funds, ensuring that these funds cannot be spent on unrelated programs. Congress must act now to ensure that this fund – paid into by criminals – is used for its intended purpose: to help restore victims. ” “Ensuring that the non-taxer money in the Crime Victims Fund is used only for its intended purposes is one of my highest priorities in Congress, and the Crime Victims Fund Preservation Act meets that important goal,” said Costa. “As co-chairs of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Congressman Poe and I support and advocate for all victims and survivors of crime. Unfortunately, there are many children, women, and men who do not have access to the services they need to heal. The Victims’ Rights Caucus will be working diligently in the 115th Congress to protect the money in the Fund, so victim service providers can expand assistance to those individuals who sadly have been victims of crime.” As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Poe and Costa have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. ###
01.30.2017	As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, my main priority is to keep the American people safe. Our refugee system is in need of reform to ensure that terrorist groups do not use it as a gateway into the United States as they have done in Europe. For that reason, I am supportive of efforts to more thoroughly vet the 80 million people who enter the United States from overseas each year and to reform our refugee program. It is the number one job of a President to protect the American people. President Trump’s executive order does a number of things, including placing a temporary freeze (90 days) on foreign nationals coming into the United States from seven terror prone countries, a list which was used by President Obama's Administration, and pausing the refugee program for those countries. This is not a Muslim ban. I would never support that. The White House has assured the public that Green Card holders will still be able to enter the country moving forward. I believe those who have already gone through the vetting required to obtain legal status in the United States should still be able to travel to and from the United States. I am optimistic that a pause and reexamining of our vetting system will result in a stronger system that allows screened foreign nationals from everywhere to continue traveling to the United States, while also ensuring those entering are not here to do us harm. I am hopeful in the future the Administration will work more closely with Congress and the implementing agencies to ensure that well intended policies do not cause the confusion they understandably did this weekend for the public. Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
01.30.2017	On Sunday, the mullahs in Tehran flagrantly violated international law by conducting yet another ballistic missile test. U.N. Resolution 2231 calls upon the Islamic Republic to cease and desist from carrying out such tests for eight years, but that has done little to deter the Iranian regime. They have tested these dangerous missiles time and again with impunity. The time has come to show Iran that we mean business- there must be clear consequences for the Supreme Leader of Iran and all his cronies. And that’s just the way it is.
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Reps. Peters (D-CA), Bera (D-CA), Calvert (R-CA), Speier (D-CA) and Conaway (R-TX) introduced H.R. 620, The bipartisan ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017. This legislation will curb frivolous lawsuits filed by cash-hungry attorneys and plaintiffs that abuse the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act). “The ADA is a vital law that is meant to make American businesses more accessible to the disabled. But the integrity of this important law is being threatened. The vast majority of small businesses in America strive to serve their customers to the best of their ability – relying on the ADA as another tool to help ensure that customers with disabilities can enjoy the services that they provide,” said Congressman Poe. “Most of these business owners believe that they are in compliance with the ADA and have even passed local and state inspections. However, despite their best attempts, certain attorneys and their pool of serial plaintiffs troll for minor, easily correctable ADA infractions so they can file a lawsuit and make some cash. There is a now whole industry made up of people who prey on small business owners and file unnecessary abusive lawsuits that abuse both the ADA and the business owners. This bill will change that by requiring that the business owners have time to fix what is allegedly broken. If they fail to correct the infractions the plaintiff retains all of their rights to pursue legal action. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of attorneys.” "The goal of the Americans with Disabilities Act is to provide access for the disabled – it’s not to give unscrupulous trial lawyers the opportunity to abuse small businesses,” said Rep. Calvert. “California has become ground zero for abusive ADA lawsuits and I have heard from many of our job creators who have fallen victim to abusive ADA lawsuits that are not aimed at improving access for the disabled. Protecting small businesses from abusive lawsuits and ensuring disabled Americans have adequate access are not mutually exclusive goals.” "The Americans with Disabilities Act created a necessary and commonsense framework to help remove barriers and ensure every American has access to public and private spaces," said Rep. Peters. "However, unlike other federal laws, when businesses are out of compliance with ADA rules, there is no grace period for them to fix problems with their properties. As a result, well-intentioned small business owners are targeted with predatory lawsuits that don't allow them to make changes to their stores or workspaces before they get buried with legal fees. This bipartisan bill gives businesses time to make necessary changes before they are subject to litigation. By reducing the burden on well-intentioned small business owners, we can focus on holding bad actors accountable and small business owners can spend money improving access instead of on legal fees." “The Americans with Disabilities Act has made tremendous progress in increasing accessibility. Like so many good things, however, bad actors are taking advantage of ADA by filing frivolous lawsuits that have disastrous unintended consequences on local, small businesses,” said Congressman Mike Conway. “Predatory attorneys who often times don’t even live in the same state are using Google Earth to find minor ADA violations, and slapping devastating lawsuits on local small businesses who thought they were in compliance with the law without giving them an opportunity to fix the infraction. This practice helps no one but lawyers looking to make a quick buck, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that this legislation becomes law.” Supporting Groups American Hotel and Lodging Association, American Resort Development Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, CCIM Institute, Institute of Real Estate Management, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of REALTORS®, National Association of Theatre Owners, National Council of Chain Restaurants, National Federation of Independent Business, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association, NATSO, Representing America's Travel Plazas and Truck Stops, Retail Industry Leaders Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. http://www.adalawsuitreform.com/
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, and Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), introduced the State Refugee Security Act of 2017 (H.R. 604). This joint Senate-House effort mandates that the federal government notifies a state at least 21 days prior to resettling a refugee there. During that period, if a state governor certifies that the federal government has not provided adequate assurances that the refugee does not present a security risk, the federal government is prohibited from resettling that refugee in the state. “Congress must take action to support states that refuse to participate in the refugee resettlement program because of serious security concerns,” said Poe. “The Obama Administration’s open door policy has totally disregarded the wishes of state governors who have legitimate security concerns about letting unvetted refugees in their states. Although we expect vetting to increase in the new Administration, states should still have an opt out if the security of the program is not guaranteed. The reality is that ISIS has vowed to attack America, and we already know that several recent terror attacks in Europe were carried out by individuals who came in disguised as a Syrian refugee. It is dangerous and irresponsible to let thousands of refugees in when even FBI Director Comey admitted we cannot properly vet them. Until the federal government can conduct thorough security screenings and confirm that there are no security risks, Congress should empower states to be able to protect their citizens by refusing to participate in this program.” “The first obligation of the president is to keep this country safe as commander in chief,” said Sen. Cruz. "I am encouraged that, unlike the previous administration, one of President Trump’s top priorities is to defeat radical Islamic terrorism. To augment the efforts of the new administration, this legislation I have introduced will reinforce the authority of the states and governors to keep their citizens safe. I am honored to work with Rep. Poe on this legislation and I hope that Congress will pass it and send it to the president’s desk.” Congressman Poe and Senator Cruz previously introduced the State Refugee Security Act in the 114th Congress. ###
01.23.2017	“Friday morning as the 45th President was about to be sworn in, Obama Administration officials packed up their desks and prepared to head off into the sunset. But not before quietly slipping in a last minute surprise snub to Israel on their way out the door by reportedly sending $221 million dollars to the Palestinian Authority. This move is sadly not surprising, but wildly inappropriate. The final days of the Obama White House were filled with unapologetic downright hostility towards Israel. Just last month the U.S. betrayed our friends by abstaining from a UN Security Council vote attacking Israel. Now we send hundreds of millions of dollars to fill the coffers of their enemy? Thankfully there’s a new man in charge in Washington. President Trump has pledged to support Israel. President Trump says he will move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, a move I totally support. Israel is our greatest friend and should never question where we stand. The Trump White House seems to understand that. Good riddance to those who did not. “
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement after the passage of S. Con. Res. 3. “Today, the House voted on Senate-passed legislation supported by President-Elect Trump, laying out a plan for a budget and more importantly, starting the process of repealing and ultimately replacing Obamacare. This budget reconciliation bill is the first step in the long process of making the President’s disastrous nationalized healthcare law a thing of the past. Due to procedural rules in the Senate, Congress had to use the budget reconciliation process to start the repeal process because it could pass with only 51 votes. This was the best procedural method with the highest chance of success. Now, Congress will be able to move forward with the repeal and replacement of Obamacare with a patient-centered healthcare system. This budget reconciliation package is not a spending bill. It is just a budget plan, much like many Americans set up for their own families. This is the first step in a much longer process of undoing the damage that has been done and replacing it with a health care system that provides affordable health coverage to all who want it without an unconstitutional federal mandate.”
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Co-Founder of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, and Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) introduced H.R. 440, the SHAME Act. The bi-partisan bill will ensure that federal judges have the ability to publish the names and photographs of criminals convicted of buying sex from a minor or a sex-trafficking victim. The SHAME Act is designed to allow easy public access to the pictures and information of those in society who would purchase sex from these victims. “As a former judge in Texas, I used public punishment to keep criminals from returning to my court room and to discourage others from committing crimes,” said Congressman Poe. “I believe this form of public shaming can be successful in combatting human trafficking. That is why we have introduced the bipartisan SHAME Act. This bill will guarantee federal judges have the ability to publish the names and photographs of both convicted human traffickers and buyers of trafficked victims. Buyers will no longer be able to hide in plain sight under the cloak of anonymity. Perhaps the thought of having their face on a billboard will make scoundrels think twice about participating in the modern day slave trade. It is time to SHAME these horrible humans out of the business altogether.” “I am proud to have worked with Rep. Poe in enacting and advocating for critical anti-trafficking legislation including the JVTA, which has greatly improved services available to victims of human trafficking and revolutionized the way we punish criminals who buy and sell sex with trafficking victims and minors,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “The perpetrators of these heinous crimes often operate in the shadows and are too often not brought to justice. This simple bill, the SHAME Act, is another important tool for law enforcement and prosecutors as they protect their communities by cracking down on the demand driving this illegal industry.” Last Congress, Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Maloney were part of a bicameral, bipartisan team that passed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA). This act helped police target all persons involved in the buying and selling of human beings while also funding victim services and restitution. The SHAME Act is an extension of the success of JVTA. ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, introduced H.R. 425, the FTO Passport Revocation Act. This legislation would authorize the revocation or denial of passports and passport cards to individuals affiliated with designated foreign terrorist organizations. A version of the same bill passed the House unanimously in the 114th Congress. The updated version of the bill allows the accused to request a hearing to ensure that their due process rights are protected, no matter where they are. Chairman Poe: “Daily, deadly attacks around the world remind us that radical Islamic terrorists are spreading their murderous rampage far beyond the Middle East. The threat to our citizens from these groups has never been greater. But some of our own have unfortunately travelled to the terrorist hotbeds in Syria and beyond to fight for the other side. These Benedict Arnold traitors, who have turned against America and joined the ranks of foreign radical terrorist armies, should lose all rights afforded to our citizens. This bill will help law enforcement locate these individuals by preventing them from travelling internationally so that they can be captured and brought to justice. Most importantly, this legislation will prevent turned Americans from entering the United States undetected. These people are not returning to America to open coffee shops; they are coming back to kill. We must stop them from coming back at all.” Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) reintroduced H.R. 241, the Timely Repatriation Act of 2017, to restrict diplomatic visas to countries that deny or unreasonably delay the repatriation of a national ordered removed from the United States. Under current law, when an alien commits a serious crime in the United States (including violent crimes) he or she must be repatriated back to their country of origin. However, in many cases this does not happen because the home countries either delay or refuse to accept and repatriate their nationals who have been issued removal orders by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). As a result, these foreign nationals, some having been convicted of everything from petty crimes to murder, are free to stay in America. In many cases they go on to commit more crime and some have even murdered our citizens. “The United States can no longer afford to give convicted foreign criminals a get-out-of-jail-free card. The safety of our own citizens is at stake. The issue is that we cannot permanently detain criminals and their countries of origin refuse to take them back. It is time we make them. This is a dangerous and deadly hole in our immigration system. Our government must offer a proper incentive to these uncooperative nations who freely take our money, and turn around and disrespect our laws. We should not be issuing diplomatic VISA’s to nations that refuse to cooperate with our government. Keeping their criminals here is endangering our own citizens.”
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement after being sworn in for a seventh term as the United States Representative for the Second Congressional District of Texas. "This week the 115th Congress officially begins. With conservative control of both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, I am confident that things will be different. As the President-elect has said, it is time to put America first. I can’t wait to get moving. Being sworn in is always an honor and a privilege, but this year is even more special for me. I am happy to also announce today that I am in remission from Leukemia. My fight is not yet over, but the progress that has been made in the last six months has been nothing short of miraculous, thanks to the Good Lord, the experts at MD Anderson Cancer Center, and the support and prayers of my family, friends, colleagues, staff and all of you. Since remission does not mean “cancer free”, I will continue to receive treatment both in Washington and Houston. After a challenging six months, I am grateful to be able to be here in Washington doing what I love to do: fight for Texas.” Congressman Poe being sworn in for the 115th Congress accompanied by his son Kurt Poe, daughter-in-law Suzy Poe and grandson Jackson Poe.”
01.04.2017	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) House Foreign Affairs Committee-Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Chairman Ted Poe (TX) and House Armed Services-Strategic Forces Chairman Mike Rogers (AL) released the following statements today regarding the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA.) The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 included a provision originally authored by HFAC-Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Chairman Ted Poe (TX) and HASC-Strategic Forces Chairman Mike Rogers (AL) that requires the imposition of sanctions against companies involved in arms control violations. The provision, Section 1290 (Measures against persons involved in activities that violate arms control treaties or agreements with the United States) would also impose sanctions on any entity that does business with those companies involved in arms control violations to encourage their isolation from global commerce. Chairmen Poe and Rogers, through their oversight, have been working since 2014 to compel the Obama Administration to confront Russia’s violation of numerous arms control treaties and agreements, including, specifically, the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty. To date, the Russian Federation has been confronted neither with economic nor military consequences by the Obama Administration for violation of the INF treaty nor any other arms control agreement. The UNCLASSIFIED State Department report detailing violations of arms control agreements for calendar year 2016 can be found here: https://www.state.gov/t/avc/rls/rpt/2016/ Note: the current list of states violating their arms control obligations includes Russia, China, Iran, North Korea and others. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 was signed into law by the President on December 23, 2016. Chairman Poe stated, “The time has come that we push back against Russia’s blatant violations of arms control agreements like the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF). This Administration has done little to hold Russia accountable for its egregious violations which jeopardize both American interests and international security. It is not sufficient to merely publicly call out Russia for these violations. There must be consequences. The provisions co-authored by Chairman Rogers and myself as part of the NDAA will finally penalize he companies involved in these arms control violations and will hopefully make the Kremlin think twice about any future violations.” Chairman Rogers stated, “I’m pleased that the NDAA includes the provision co-authored by Chairman Poe and myself. After promising military and economic responses, the Obama Administration did nothing. This administration waited out the clock on Russia’s blatant violations of arms control agreements like the INF treaty. The next administration has to do better, and I’m pleased the Rogers-Poe sanctions will be available to them.”
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 22 the Support More Assets, Resources and Technology on the Border Act, also known as the SMART Border Act. This legislation which was previously introduced outlines a robust border protection strategy and includes several measures to bolster the Federal Government’s assistance in achieving operational control of the U.S. southern border. “For years, Washington bureaucrats have repeatedly preached that the border is secure,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “The reality is that the majority of the southern border territory is controlled by someone other than the United States. Border patrol and local law enforcement do the best they can with the resources they currently have, but they need more help from the federal government. The federal government must finally act to secure our border. The continued failure to protect the border threatens both the security of our people and the sovereignty of our nation. The SMART Border Act incorporates several common sense reforms that will ramp up support from the federal government and charge Congress, not unelected bureaucrats, with determining if and when operational control is achieved.” In short, the SMART Border Act: The bill requires the Secretary of DHS to achieve operational control of the border within one year of enactment and submit a report on this achievement to the Comptroller General of the United States. Requires the GAO to submit a report to Congress three months after DHS attests to full border security in consultation with state and local officials along the international border between the US and Mexico including border sheriffs, mayors of border towns and cities, chambers of commerce in border areas, farmers and ranchers and associated farming and ranching organizations in border areas, community organizations in border areas, state law enforcement agencies and border state governors. Within 90 days of the receipt of these reports, Congress has the option to vote on a joint resolution of disapproval of the report if they believe the border is not under full operational control. Should the vote not occur, the report and certification will be deemed passed for purposes of the act. Requires GAO to submit annual reports on the status of operational control of the US border. Mandates that DOD make 10,000 National Guard troops available for deployment upon request from border state governors until operational control is achieved. Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to deploy “smart border technology” (such as seismic detectors and UAV’s) to areas of the border in which operational control has not been achieved. Directs DOD to use its current 257a authority to transfer used military equipment to eligible Federal, State, and local agencies with a preference toward border security applications. Eligible equipment will include surveillance drones, night vision equipment, Humvees and other applicable equipment that can be used for border security purposes. Mandates that DHS hire 1500 new CBP agents if it is determined that operational control of the border has not been achieved. Creates a $10 million grant program (offset) through DHS to pay for border security infrastructure. (cell phone towers, signal boosters etc.) Creates a grant program (offset) through DHS to local sheriffs’ offices along the international border for the purpose of hiring additional deputies, training, patrol vehicles and weapons. Mandates that CBP only count an individual who has been apprehended on the border once in terms of their reporting requirements for counting apprehensions. Mandates that the Secretary of DHS fully implement US VISIT (entry-exit) system within two years of enactment. Mandates that the system be used at all entry/exit points in the US and that the program be biometric. Defines the term ‘operational control' as a condition in which all illegal border crossers are apprehended and narcotics and other contraband are seized.
12.16.2016	Houston, TX- Today, Congressman Ted Poe sent the following letter to Telegram. Click here to read the full text of the letter.
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism issued the following statement on Facebook's announcement of a new partnership with Twitter, Microsoft and YouTube to battle the use of social media by terrorists. The new innovative program will be launched in early 2017. The companies will create a database of unique digital “fingerprints” to help automatically identify terrorist videos or images that will facilitate quick identification of the worst terrorist propaganda and prevent it from spreading online. Congressman Poe has long called for these precise reforms through legislation and other means. “This new partnership between some of the world’s foremost media and technology companies marks a bold, new step in our battle against the cancer of radical Islamic terrorism that has been compounded by the ubiquitous reach of the internet," said Chairman Poe. "The terrorists have exploited the internet to spread their hateful ideas throughout the world and recruit more vulnerable people to their murderous ranks. This new initiative will hopefully mark a turning point in the battle of ideas by making it that much harder for terrorists to use the internet as a loudspeaker for their evil.” Chairman Poe is the author of the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act, which passed the House last year.
12.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee Chairman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement today after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, which included his amendments to sanction Russia for violations of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, additional conditions on foreign aid to Pakistan, and provide more oversight and accountability to security assistance: “In 2008, Russia violated the INF treaty and eight years later have suffered few consequences for it. My amendment prohibits the US government from contracting with any entities that have contributed to Russia’s violation of the treaty. It is an important first step that begins to show there will be meaningful repercussions for such blatant violations of arms control agreements with the United States. “The Haqqani Network has killed more Americans in Afghanistan than any other terrorist group, but the government of Pakistan has done little to go after it, despite taking some $33 billion of United States’ money since 9/11. My bipartisan amendment limits foreign aid to Pakistan until the Administration certifies that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives. If Pakistan is not willing to publicly arrest and prosecute members of the Haqqani Network instead of actively supporting them, then it does not deserve a single dollar of American taxpayer money. “We need to be evaluating how all American foreign aid is spent. A big part of making sure quality evaluations are being done is by having an evaluation policy that lays out the standards. It is a basic, common sense idea, but the Department of Defense has yet to institute such a policy. My bipartisan amendment encourages such a policy because Americans have the right to know what bang for the buck every taxpayer dollar is getting.”
11.30.2016	Download Letter Here
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus celebrated the unanimous passage of H.R. 5422, a bipartisan bill that allows the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to continue funding the National Human Trafficking Hotline (NHTH). H.R. 5422 was sponsored in the House by Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). The Senate companion was led by Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and John Cornyn (R-TX). The National Human Trafficking Hotline provides trafficking victims and survivors with instant and free access to critical support and emergency services, collects tips about potential trafficking situations and disseminates training and informational materials to help raise awareness in our communities. As it stands today, the funding for HHS’s annual grants has been appropriated to the Department of Justice. Having the hotline under the jurisdiction of DOJ creates an unnecessary and unhelpful additional layer of bureaucracy. It forces HHS to be dependent on funds from DOJ to run the hotline. It is more efficient and effective for HHS to continue using its own funds to operate the NHTH. "The National Human Trafficking Hotline saves lives," said Congressman Poe. "It is an essential tool not only used by victims of trafficking, but it also serves as an important source of information to those who suspect they have encountered a victim of trafficking and don’t know how to help. This hotline is an essential tool in the fight against human trafficking in the United States and it is Congress' responsibility to fund this in the most efficient and effective way possible."
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement following the passage of the bi-partisan Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (JFA) by the House. JFA strengthens crime victims’ rights and programs, by increasing access to restitution to federal crime victims, and reauthorizes programs used to notify crime victims that they have the right to be heard in court, with legal assistance. The Act further reduces the rape kit backlog and provides resources for forensic labs, while protecting the innocent by improving access to post-conviction DNA testing. “Today the House took the necessary steps forward in strengthening protection for victims of crime by passing the Justice for All Reauthorization Act,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “As a former prosecutor and judge, I have had personal experience working with victims of crime whose lives and families' lives have been torn apart. Congress must continue to provide resources to law enforcement and crime labs in order to protect the innocent. I expect the Senate to quickly pass this amended version of Justice for All. Protecting victims of crime should be a top priority.” “The Justice for All Reauthorization Act would strengthen policies and programs to provide better support for victims of crime throughout the country, especially those who live in rural regions, like California’s San Joaquin Valley,” said Congressman Jim Costa. “As a founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, protecting the innocent and ensuring that survivors of violent crime receive the necessary services to heal is one of my top priorities in Congress. I applaud the bipartisan passage of the Justice for All Reauthorization Act in the House, and I hope the Senate acts swiftly, so it becomes law before the end of this Congress.” The House bill is a companion measure to Sens. John Cornyn (R-TX) and Patrick Leahy’s (D-VT) legislation. “In order to provide victims the protection they need to restore their lives, we must ensure our criminal justice system has the resources to keep violent offenders off the streets,” Sen. Cornyn said.“Strengthening the Justice for All Act is a significant victory for the crime victims’ rights movement, and I commend the House of Representatives for moving this legislation one step closer to the President’s desk.” Justice for All works to improve the administration of criminal justice programs, by increasing accountability for federal funds, requiring the Justice Department to assist state and local governments to improve their indigent defense systems. Additionally, it ensures the implementation of the Prison Rape Elimination Act. Representatives Poe and Costa are founding members and co-chairmen of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC).
11.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 28, 2016) – Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) today joins Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) as a co-chair of the bipartisan House Ports Opportunity, Renewal, Trade, and Security (PORTS) Caucus. Congressman Lowenthal succeeds retiring co-chair Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44), who with Congressman Poe, founded the caucus in 2011 with the mission of promoting the importance of our nation’s ports to the economy and our need to secure them. “From the Port of Houston to the Port of Long Beach, our ports provide U.S. businesses with access to markets around the world and the opportunity to grow and create new American jobs, as well as support the 23 million people whose jobs depend on ports,” Congressman Ted Poe said. “While I will miss working with Congresswoman Hahn, a strong advocate for our nation’s ports, I look forward to working with Congressman Lowenthal in the 115th Congress to help ensure that our ports remain strong and successful.” “America’s ports are the vital economic engines of not only the hundreds of port communities across America, but they are key components of our national economy,” Congressman Lowenthal said. “I am honored to follow Congresswoman Hahn as co-chair and look forward to working with Congressman Poe and all the Members of the caucus to find ways together to promote our ports, keep them safe, and maintain their financial success.” Congressman Lowenthal brings over 20 years of experience in elected office working on transportation, infrastructure, and goods movement issues at the local, state, and national level to the caucus. During his tenure in the California State Legislature, he served as chair of the California State Senate Transportation Committee and as Chair of the California Select Committee on Ports for 14 years, working closely with stakeholders from all sectors of the industry to advance forward-looking transportation policy. “I am tremendously proud of my work in helping to found and lead the PORTS Caucus with Congressman Poe for the past five years,” Congresswoman Hahn said. “We have accomplished a great deal in raising the awareness of how vital our ports industry is to the economic well-being of our nation as well as our national security. While I am sorry to leave the PORTS Caucus behind, I know that I am leaving it in good hands—Congressman Lowenthal represents the Port of Long Beach, which together with the Port of Los Angeles makes up the largest port complex in the United States. He knows the issues that matter to our ports and I am confident that the caucus’s important work will continue under the leadership of Congressman Lowenthal and Congressman Poe.” The United States is served by more than 350 commercial sea and river ports that support 3,200 cargo and passenger handling facilities. Each day, United States ports move both imports and exports totaling some $3.8 billion worth of goods through all 50 states. Additionally, ports move 99.4 percent of overseas cargo volume by weight and generate $3.95 trillion in international trade.
11.21.2016	On a bright, sunny Sunday morning, San Antonio Police Department Detective Benjamin Marconi, was killed during a routine traffic stop. While the 50-year-old officer was writing a ticket, a black vehicle pulled up behind his car, walked over, and shot him in the head. The shot killed Detective Marconi, taking his life away from this world all too soon. The suspect is still on the loose. My thoughts and prayers are with Detective Marconi and his family. Two other police officers in St. Louis and Florida were injured after being shot in a series of targeted attacks on law enforcement. Altogether, 127 officers have been killed in the line of duty this year. It is time to put an end to the needless murders of our peace officers. Congress must stand up for those who work to protect the rest of us. My bill, H.R. 5809, introduced along with Senator Cornyn in the Senate, would increase federal penalties against people who either kill, assault or plan violence against a law enforcement officer. The men and women behind the badge are some of America’s best. It’s time for Congress to take action to protect them.
11.10.2016	UNITED STATES CONGRESS FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, November 10, 2016 Cornyn: Drew Brandewie, 202-224-0704 Poe: Shaylyn Hynes, 202-225-6565 Poe, Cornyn Announce Resolution Honoring MD Anderson’s 75th Anniversary HOUSTON – Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) and U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) announced today that they will introduce companion resolutions in the Senate and House commemorating the 75thAnniversary of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. “When I was diagnosed with Leukemia, I rushed to MD Anderson as fast as I could. Why? Because it is the best cancer center in the world,” said Rep. Poe. “From the world class physicians to the dedicated nurses, the care patients receive at MD Anderson is second to none. For 75 years, MD Anderson has conducted bold research that has ensured that its patients receive cutting edge treatment that they simply cannot receive anywhere else. I can say from personal experience that battling cancer is a lot easier when you know you have the best doctors in the world behind you. I congratulate MD Anderson Cancer Center on this monumental anniversary and look forward to seeing what this institution does in the coming years to make cancer a thing of the past.” “Throughout its distinguished 75 years, MD Anderson’s world class health professionals have provided hope, healing, and exceptional care to more than one million patients,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Their focus on research and prevention has led to innumerable breakthroughs in the fight against cancer, and I’m proud to recognize the world’s premier cancer institution on its 75th anniversary.” ###
11.07.2016	On Friday, November 4, 2016 a military base in Jordan was attacked. Houstonian James Moriarty, 27, was killed in the gunfire. Sergeant Moriarty was a proud member of the Army’s Special Forces, scheduled to return home in two weeks after completing three tours of duty in Jordan. Men and women behind the uniform like Sergeant Moriarty are the best the America has. I do not believe it was a coincidence that only Americans were killed and I urge the Administration and government of Jordan to complete a comprehensive investigation of the attack as soon as possible. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends.
11.04.2016	Rep. Ted Poe and Rep. Gerald Connolly, co-chairs of the Georgia Caucus in the U.S. Congress, put out the following statement regarding Georgia’s recent elections: “We congratulate Georgia for completing its elections. Twenty-five years ago, Georgia threw off the yoke of the Soviet Union and its communist oppression. Since then, Georgia has been a friend and ally of the United States. We look forward to working with the newly elected government to bring further prosperity and stability to Georgia.”
11.02.2016	"Early this morning while most Americans were safe in their homes fast asleep, two Iowa Peace Officers were on duty. Suddenly, in the dark of night, they were ambushed and murdered right in their patrol cars just a few miles apart. Police have identified and are holding the suspect in custody. Today's murders are unfortunately just the latest in a wave of targeted attacks on Peace Officers in America. 51 officers have been murdered this year. Enough is enough. It is time for Congress to take action to protect those who serve. That is why I have introduced H.R. 5809, the Back the Blue Bill which will increase federal penalties against people who either kill, assault or plan violence against a law enforcement officer. As a prosecutor and Judge for over 30 years, I had the privilege of working alongside some of America's best, the men and women behind the badge. Without them, we would live in anarchy."
10.28.2016	Lawmakers Seek Answers About How Government Would Use New Hacking Authority, One Month Before Rule 41 Amendments Would Take Effect Washington, D.C. –A bipartisan coalition of Senate and House lawmakers today asked Attorney General Loretta Lynch to provide Congress with more information about a proposed expansion of government hacking and surveillance powers. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., Judiciary Committee member Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, and Ranking Member Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., with House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr., D-Mich., and senior Judiciary Committee member Rep. Ted Poe, R-Texas, led a bipartisan group of 21 lawmakers asking for more information about the proposal, formally known as amendments to Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. Unless Congress acts, these new amendments are scheduled to go into effect on December 1. “We are concerned about the full scope of the new authority that would be provided to the Department of Justice,” the lawmakers wrote. “We believe that Congress -- and the American public -- must better understand the Department’s need for the proposed amendments, how the Department intends to use its proposed new powers, and the potential consequences to our digital security before these rules go into effect.” The lawmakers ask DOJ a number of questions about how Rule 41 will be used, including: How the government intends to prevent forum shopping by prosecutors seeking court approval to hack into Americans' devices; How the government will prevent collateral damage to innocent Americans' devices and electronic data when it remotely search devices such as smartphones or medical devices; Whether the government intends to use this new authority to search and “clean” Americans' computers ; How the government will maintain a chain of custody when searching or removing evidence from a device; How the government will notify Americans who are the subjects of remote government searches. The letter was signed by: Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wisc., Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., Sen. Steve Daines, R-S.D., Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont, and Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich., Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah., Rep. Judy Chu, D-Calif., Rep. Steve Cohen, D-Tenn., Rep. Suan DelBene, D-Wash., Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Texas, Rep. Hank Johnson, D-Ga., Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., and Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y.
10.25.2016	Houston, TX- Today Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus issued the following statement on the first sentenced human trafficker under the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (JVTA). James Patrick Manning of Tampa is the first criminal to be sentenced under JVTA after he responded to an advertisement posted on Backpage.com by an undercover federal agent in an attempt to purchase sex from a 14-year-old girl. “James Manning has been sentenced to 10 years behind bars, which is exactly where he belongs for attempting to purchase a trafficked child for sex,” said Congressman Ted Poe. This new federal penalty implemented under JVTA goes directly after the people who are the lifeblood of the trafficking business—the buyers. The key to fighting any criminal enterprise is to follow the money trail. This is the first time JVTA has been used to prosecute and sentence a sex abuser. JVTA makes absolutely clear that those who attempt to purchase sexual acts from human trafficking victims are in fact human traffickers and should be punished under federal law as such. Buyers of minors and trafficked persons are now subject to the same penalties as sellers. I am proud to have led the fight in Congress to go after both human traffickers and their customers. Our children are not for sale.”
09.29.2016	September 29, 2016 Contact: Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202-225-6565 shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.gov Hannah Smith (Dingell) 202-315-8446 hannah.smith@mail.house.gov Peter Whippy (Lofgren) 202-225-3072 peter.whippy@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Ted Poe (TX-02), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today led a bipartisan letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson seeking clarification on the recently revised DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) and requesting that the redress procedures be further reviewed and revised to protect due process rights for individuals. DHS TRIP revised its redress policy in 2015 after courts ruled that the previous procedures violated the Due Process Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The Representatives are requesting information from Secretary Johnson about the steps being taken to ensure watch lists are accurate and to ensure that people who believe they are wrongly listed have a meaningful process to challenge their status. “DHS is faced with the task of balancing the personal rights of those who wish to travel with safety of those wishing to fly,” said Congressman Poe. “We must ensure that our constitutional rights are not trampled on as we protect the American public. Currently American citizens are being placed on the No-Fly list often with little or no notice and are not given a constitutionally sufficient way to challenge that listing. Those that choose to challenge and seek redress should be afforded full due process. The constitution should not be trampled on in an effort to protect the homeland, we can have both freedom and security.” “Protecting and supporting our national security is one of our most fundamental responsibilities. It is also critical to protect due process under the law for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “We have seen firsthand the challenges facing those wrongly listed on the No-Fly list – including Members of Congress – and the complex and lengthy process required to be removed. We must keep America safe without jeopardizing our founding principles. Every effort must be made to ensure the rights provided under the U.S. Constitution are afforded to all.” “For those wrongly included on the No Fly List, being removed can be a lengthy and complicated process,” said Congresswoman Lofgren. “I’m glad the Department of Homeland Security has demonstrated a willingness to improve this process, and I look forward to learning more about how they plan to implement changes as well as what further improvements can be made to ensure due process for those seeking correction of their erroneous watch list designation.” For many individuals, getting off a government watch list is still a lengthy process and in some cases they are not allowed access to all the information the government has collected because of security classifications. In fiscal year 2014, a total of 9,766 DHS TRIP applications were filed with the Department and over 1,400 were still being processed. With a new set of procedures in place for over a year now, the Representatives are seeking answers to help better understand DHS TRIP and its overall effectiveness. In addition to Poe, Lofgren and Dingell, the letter is signed by Reps. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Paul Tonko (NY-20), André Carson (IN-07), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Mike Honda (CA-17), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Jeff Miller (FL-01), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Thomas Massie (KY-04), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Robert Brady (PA-01), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), Judy Chu (CA-27), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), and Loretta Sanchez (CA-46). The full letter can be read here and below. September 29, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security 800 7th St. SW Washington, D.C. 20024 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to learn about the recently revised Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP) and to urge that the procedures be further reviewed and revised to prevent the deprivation of the due process rights of individuals seeking redress. We understand that DHS is faced with the difficult task of balancing the rights of those who wish to travel with the safety of travelers. At the same time, the liberty interests of United States citizens and permanent residents on the No Fly List must also be protected. The No Fly List and DHS TRIP implicate several 5th Amendment due process rights concerns. Courts have recognized that the right to travel is a constitutionally protected liberty interest that cannot be deprived without the due process of law. Courts have also noted that an individual’s status on the No Fly List can effectively bar them from traveling internationally. In addition to seeking responses to the inquiries below, we write to express our concern regarding the due process afforded to those on the No Fly List. We have heard too many stories of individuals wrongly listed or mistaken for others listed, which can have a large impact on affected families as well. We understand the interest of DHS in making sure that redress procedures comport with national security concerns. And, we also recognize that DHS TRIP has been revised in response to court challenges. However, there still are constitutional questions and there remains room for improvement in these procedures to protect the due process rights of individuals seeking redress. While pre-deprivation hearings may raise different challenges in the case of No Fly List redress procedures, those seeking redress after the fact should be afforded full due process, including meaningful notice of the reasons for placement on the list and the opportunity to be heard in front a neutral party. Please provide responses to the inquiries below with as much detail as possible, to help us better understand DHS TRIP and its effectiveness, especially under the newly revised procedure. 1. What is the average number of days between an individual’s redress request through DHS TRIP and the issuance of an official response regarding the individual’s status under the most recently revised DHS TRIP procedures? In 2014, TSA stated the average time for resolving a case was 75 days, and 17 days for aviation cases. 2. How many redress applications were submitted in FY2015? How many cases are pending? 3. Have any cases been reopened and reevaluated since the revised redress procedures were implemented? 4.Please provide detailed information on the TSA Cleared List and how it is used. Will individuals who were added to this list prior to the latest revisions of the redress procedures be notified that they are on the TSA Cleared List? 5. How many individuals have been placed on the TSA Cleared List in FY2015? 6. After the TSA Administrator’s determination (either removing the individual from the No Fly list, maintaining him or her on the list, or remanding the case to TSC for further information) is communicated to the petitioner, what options are presented to the petitioner if they are not satisfied with the final decision as it relates to 49 U.S.C. § 46110? And how are these options communicated to the petitioner? 7. In its April 2015 Notice Regarding Revisions to DHS TRIP Procedure in Latif v. Holder, the Department of Justice stated that the government would be “closely monitoring the initial implementation of these newly revised procedures on an interagency basis, and will, as circumstances warrant, consider whether further revisions to the process are necessary”. What interagency reviews, if any, of the implementation of the new process has taken place? Have any further revisions been recommended by the Department of Justice or any other agency? Thank you for your continued work securing and defending our homeland, and we look forward to working with you to improve the DHS TRIP redress process for all while balancing our national security interests.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-Proliferation & Trade, hailed the passage of H.R. 3693 the IRGC Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2015 out of the subcommittee. “Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) has funded, planned and executed terrorist attacks against the United States and our allies for decades,” said Chairman Poe. “Despite this fact, the IRGC has managed to escape some of the economic repercussions of Department of Treasury sanctions because of an extremely narrow rule defining Government of Iran controlled entities. The Department of Treasury also, inexplicably, has not yet designated the IRGC for its support of terrorism. It’s time to close both of these loopholes and hold the IRGC accountable for its terrorist actions. The unanimous passage of this bill out of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism should be followed with a floor vote as soon as possible. The stakes are too high to let Iran abuse this gap in our laws any longer.”
09.26.2016	Washington, DC – In response to discouraging changes to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) that removed vital support for our nation’s ports Congressman Ted Poe (TX- 02) and Congressman Gene Green (TX-29) issued the following statements. The House is expected to vote on WRDA next week. “I am disappointed by the changes to the Water Resources Development Act,” said Congressman Poe. “WRDA strengthened the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, helping to guarantee that the Port of Houston wouldn’t have to shell out its own dollars instead of using the fund as it was intended. Strong ports mean jobs, economic growth and a more secure nation. It is my hope that Congress will include the original language protecting the fund, and continue to make sure that the funds within the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are fully utilized. Maintaining our waterways and port-related infrastructure is critical to future trade and commerce efforts.” Congressman Green, whose district includes the Port of Houston, which is the second busiest port in total tonnage in the United States added, “I’m disappointed critical funding authority for our ports has been put at risk. Our ports serve as our gateways for trade & commerce and create good jobs for millions of hard working Americans which is why I supported the bipartisan efforts of the Transportation Committee to strengthen our ports. I am hopeful my colleagues will come together to restore this key provision.”
09.21.2016	Houston, TX- "I fully support Governor Greg Abbott's request to withdraw Texas from the Refugee Resettlement Program,"said Congressman Ted Poe. "My bill, H.R. 4197, the State Refugee Security Act guarantees that states can withdraw from the program upon request from their governor. The reality is that ISIS has vowed to attack America. It is dangerous and irresponsible to let thousands of refugees in to this country when FBI Director Comey admitted we cannot properly vet them. Until the federal government can conduct thorough security screenings and confirm that there are no security risks, states should to be able to protect their citizens by withdrawing from participation in this program."
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, along with Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48), introduced H.R.6069, the Pakistan State Sponsor of Terrorism Designation Act. Chairman Poe: “Not only is Pakistan an untrustworthy ally, Islamabad has also aided and abetted enemies of the United States for years. From harboring Osama bin Laden to its cozy relationship with the Haqqani network, there is more than enough evidence to determine whose side Pakistan is on in the War on Terror. And it’s not America’s. This bill will require the Administration to formally answer this question. The President must issue a report within 90 days of passage detailing whether or not Pakistan has provided support for international terrorism. Thirty days after that, the Secretary of State must issue a follow-up report containing either a determination that Pakistan is State Sponsor of Terrorism or a detailed justification as to why Pakistan does not meet the legal criteria for designation. It is time we stop paying Pakistan for its betrayal and designate it for what it is: a State Sponsor of Terrorism.”
09.19.2016	Washington, D.C.- “I am pleased to see that the Harris County Commissioners Court authorized a de-silting study and work for the Bear Creek area,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Since the massive floods earlier this year, I have been working very closely with Harris County Flood Control District to ensure that we protect the community and neighborhoods in the surrounding area. I look forward to working with the community, Corps of Engineers and the Harris County Flood Control District as we continue to make progress on alleviating the flooding risk for my constituents living around Addicks and Barker reservoirs.”
09.19.2016	Houston, TX-This weekend's attack on an Indian army base in the garrison town of Uri left 18 Indian soldiers dead and marked the deadliest assault in Indian-administered Kashmir in over two decades. It is a reminder to democracies the world over that terrorism seeks to destroy peace loving societies everywhere. It is still unclear which terrorist group carried out this cowardly attack, but one thing is certain. This is just the latest consequence of Pakistan’s longstanding irresponsible policy of supporting and providing operational space for all stripes of jihadi terrorist groups. Pakistan’s reckless behavior in this regard is a serious security risk to its neighbors – and India unfortunately pays the price all too often. We condemn this tragic attack, as well as Pakistan’s support for many criminals like the ones who carried it out, and stand firm in our commitment to our friends in India. A threat to democracy in India is a threat to democracy everywhere. And that’s just the way it is.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA) introduced the bipartisan Sam Farr Peace Corps Enhancement Act (H.R. 6037) to improve the health, safety and wellbeing of current and returned Peace Corps volunteers. “Congress took a historic step in passing the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act in 2011, but there is more work to be done to protect our angels abroad,” said Congressman Poe. “These young ambassadors from the United States must know that when they go to countries far away, their government has their back. This bill will go even further to both keep volunteers healthy and ensure that those who have experienced sexual assault have the assistance and protection they need. These safeguards are necessary not only to protect current volunteers, but also to ensure more young Americans join the Peace Corps in the future.” “Since its establishment in 1961, Peace Corps has served as a vehicle for peace, hope and compassion,” said Rep. Farr. “I’m deeply humbled to have Judge Poe, a strong advocate for Peace Corps Volunteers in his own right, name this bill after me and I’m honored to cosponsor it. Expanding, promoting and improving Peace Corps has been a passion of mine since serving in Colombia from 1964-1966 and I look forward to using my remaining few months in Congress to continue this important mission.” More specifically, the bill: • Improves health care standards for current Peace Corps Volunteers; • Enhances access to health care for returned Peace Corps Volunteers (RPCVs) by extending the time period they’re eligible to receive treatment for service-related conditions; • Expands and improves provisions of the Kate Puzey Peace Corps' Volunteer Protection Act to enhance Peace Corps ability to assist and protect volunteers that have experienced sexual assault; • Increases disability payments for RPCVs that are disabled and unable to work due to service-related conditions; and • Provides further reforms to improve oversight, management and efficiency of Peace Corps.
09.15.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact Poe: Shaylyn Hynes, 202-225-6565, Shaylyn.Hynes@mail.house.gov Contact Poe: Michael Eisenstatt, 202-225-3265, michael.eisenstatt@mail.house.gov Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), co-founder of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced H.R. 6036, Extending Justice for Sex Crime Victims Act of 2016. The bi-partisan bill harmonizes the statute of limitations for sex abuse victims and sex trafficking victim minors to 28, rather than the current age of 21. Under current law, victims of both trafficking and other federal sex offenses are able to obtain justice by bringing civil claims against their perpetrators. While both sections allow claims for 10 years after the underlying offense, Section 1595 (trafficking) also allows claims until the minor is 28, but Section 2255 (other sex crimes) only permits the claim until age 21. The legislation also clarifies that the statute of limitations does not begin until the victim actually discovers the violation or the injury. “Love never comes with black eyes and bruises,” said Congressman Poe. “Trafficking and sexual abuse occur every day. Unfortunately, the vast majority of this abuse often goes unreported. Children are often victimized before their memories form, sometimes as young as three-years-old. This legislation takes the necessary steps to make the statute of limitations consistent for reporting sexual abuse and trafficking. Congress must stand up and be an advocate for children and victims.” “Sexual abuse of children is a very serious crime that too often goes unreported,” said Congressman Cohen. “Our bill increases the statute of limitations for victims of child sex abuse to ensure that they have the time and resources they need to seek justice. Sex crimes often happen to young children who may not become fully aware of these crimes until later in their life. This is a common-sense, bipartisan bill, and I hope Congress will pass it.”
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the H.R. 6016 Citizens Right to Know Act. Right now, U.S. taxpayers fund millions of dollars annually for the operation of pre-trial release programs – government-funded programs that allow accused criminals to await their trial at home. These programs—filled with many cases that involve repeat, violent and hardened criminals--operate with little oversight. As a result, taxpayers are literally bailing out dangerous criminals around the country. In some instances, those released commit terrible crimes while on pretrial release. With increased oversight of the pre-trial release program, these crimes can be avoided. “Right now the federal government is engaging in the ultimate taxpayer bailout, a bailout for hardened criminals,” said Congressman Poe. “Their crimes run the gamut, from shoplifting to murder. My bill will require record-keeping and reporting on participants in these federally funded pre-trial release programs, specifically whether the defendants have a history of criminal behavior, whether or not they actually appear for their trial, and whether they have ever failed to appear for trial in prior cases. Taxpayers deserve to know if their resources are being spent wisely, and that their communities are being protected.” Note: Congressman Poe, a former judge, originally introduced similar legislation during the 112th Congress.
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in support of H.R. 3815, the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA). The bill amends current law to authorize U.S. courts to hear cases involving claims against a foreign state for injuries, death, or damages that occur inside the United States as a result of a tort, including an act of terrorism, committed anywhere by a foreign state or official. “Fifteen years ago, on September 11, 2001, our country was instantly transformed when 3,000 Americans perished at the hands of evil terrorists,” said Congressman Poe. “If any foreign government can be shown to have significantly supported a terrorist attack on US soil, American victims ought to be able to sue that country. This bill gives the victims and their families their day in court. There is evidence that some Saudi Arabian officials may have had some level of involvement in planning some elements of the attack. Whether or not this involvement rises to the level sufficient to be held accountable is an issue to be litigated in the courtroom. That is the least that we can provide to the 3,000 murdered and their families. They deserve to pursue justice because justice is what we do in America.” H.R. 3815 passed the U.S. House and U.S. Senate unanimously. It now awaits the President’s signature.
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Co-Founder of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, and Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) introduced H.R. 5970, the SHAME Act. The bi-partisan bill will ensure that federal judges have the ability to publish the names and photographs of criminals convicted of buying sex from a minor or a sex-trafficking victim. The SHAME Act is designed to allow easy public access to the pictures and information of those in society who would purchase sex from these victims. “Human Trafficking happens right here in Houston, in our own backyard,” said Congressman Poe. “It’s time to bring an end to trafficking and stop letting these lawless criminals get away with buying and selling human beings. The SHAME Act will ensure that federal judges have the ability to publish the names and photographs of convicted human traffickers and buyers of trafficked victims. We can no longer turn a blind eye to this scourge in our society. Not only will this bill raise public awareness, but it is my hope that it will strike fear and bring shame to all the buyers who will no longer be able to hide in plain sight.” “I am proud to have worked with Rep. Poe in enacting and advocating for critical anti-trafficking legislation including the JVTA, which has greatly improved services available to victims of human trafficking and revolutionized the way we punish criminals who buy and sell sex with trafficking victims and minors,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “The perpetrators of these heinous crimes often operate in the shadows and are too often not brought to justice. This simple bill, the SHAME Act, is another important tool for law enforcement and prosecutors as they protect their communities by cracking down on the demand driving this illegal industry.” Approximately a year ago, Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Maloney were part of a bicameral, bipartisan team that passed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA). This act helped police target all persons involved in the buying and selling of human beings while also funding victim services and restitution. The SHAME Act is an extension of the success of JVTA. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C.- "Despite threats of violence by the Iranian regime, the Iranian dissidents living in Camp Liberty in Iraq have finally all been resettled safely outside Iraq. These dissidents had been living for years under imminent threat of attack simply because they dared to oppose the tyrannical regime of the mullahs in Tehran; 177 of them tragically lost their lives and over a thousand were injured as the result of several deadly attacks on their camp in Iraq orchestrated by the Iranian government and its proxies. Thankfully, the residents of Camp Liberty are now free to experience true freedom far from the reaches of Tehran and its lackeys.”
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C.- “Reports indicate that North Korea conducted its fifth nuclear test yesterday, its fourth since January 2009,"said Congressman Ted Poe. "Meanwhile, the White House has been naively pursuing a strategy it calls ‘strategic patience’ with Pyongyang that has proved to do little to stop the Kim regime’s pursuit of a nuclear weapon. It’s time that we hold North Korea accountable for its actions that have endangered the entire region with the very grave risk of nuclear proliferation. There was a time when we kept North Korea on the state sponsor of terrorism list partly because of these dangerous proliferation activities, and we rescinded their designation when they made empty promises to halt their nuclear program. Eight years later, Pyongyang’s nuclear program has only progressed. This is precisely why I introduced H.R. 5208, the North Korea State Sponsor of Terrorism Designation Act of 2016 in May. We need to call a spade a spade and ensure that North Korea pays consequences for its actions which endanger us all.” ###
09.09.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Co-Founder of the Victims’ Rights Caucus,introduced H. Con. Res 150, specifying that child safety should be the first priority in custody and visitation adjudications. The resolution also calls for state courts to implement evidence admissibility standards that help ensure that only scientifically-based facts or qualified expert testimony are admitted to prove or disprove child abuse. “Protecting our children is one of the most important things that we can do for society,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Unfortunately, some courts are overlooking potential signs of abuse and are relying on scientifically unsound factors to make decisions that impact a child’s life. Courts should resolve all claims of abuse independently before looking at any other factors in deciding custody or visitation. An independent and rigorous investigation into claims of abuse, coupled with heightened evidentiary standards, will help courts prevent the endangerment of any child. In 1990, a congressional resolution helped state courts adopt appropriate policies regarding domestic violence and abuse in state family courts. It is my hope that this new resolution will provide similar encouragement.” The bill is supported by: Domestic Violence Legal Empowerment and Appeals Project (DV LEAP) National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV) National Network to End Domestic Violence (NNEDV) National Domestic Violence Hotline National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women National Organization for Men Against Sexism (NOMAS) Futures Without Violence Advocates for Child Empowerment & Safety (ACES) Break The Cycle Child Justice Children's Justice Fund Battered Mothers' Custody Conference MassKids (Massachusetts Citizens for Children) California Protective Parent Association Legal Momentum Center for Judicial Excellence National Partnership to End Interpersonal Violence Mothers of Lost Children
09.08.2016	House Passes Poe-Connolly Bill to Support Territorial Integrity of Georgia Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), and Congressman Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Georgia Caucus, released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H. Res 660 by a vote of 410-6. H.Res. 660 condemns the Russian Federation’s unlawful occupation of Georgia and calls for Russia to withdraw from the territories. It also urges the United States Government to declare unequivocally that the United States will not recognize the de jure or de facto sovereignty of the Russian Federation over any part of Georgia. “The young democracy of Georgia is a valuable U.S. ally threatened by the cold Russian winds of authoritarianism”, said Congressman Ted Poe. “The illegal Russian occupation of Georgia is not a simple matter of territory. It is an attack on ideas; it is an assault of the very freedoms and liberties we hold dear. This resolution states that without a doubt, our friends in Georgia and the region must know that the U.S. will not waiver in its longstanding support for its allies in the face of the Napoleon of Siberia.” “Passage of this resolution serves as a clear and unequivocal statement in support of the sovereign territory of Georgia and reiterates the longstanding policy of the United States to not recognize territorial changes effected by force”, said Rep. Connolly. “In Georgia and elsewhere, Russia has committed gross violations of these principles by fomenting unrest and aiding separatist movements in its neighboring countries. This resolution sends an important message to Moscow that the United States condemns this behavior and will remain focused on countering and reversing such acts of aggression.” Georgia has more troops in Afghanistan fighting alongside our troops than any non-NATO ally. Over recent years, Georgia has drawn closer to the EU and worked hard to become an official party of NATO. Georgia is one of the few democracies in the region and is a strong partner of the United States. It is critical that the United States supports the sovereignty and integrity of Georgia as a free, united, and democratic nation. ###
09.06.2016	Houston, TX--This summer, while Congress has been out of session, I have undergone treatment here in Houston for Leukemia. Fortunately, just eight weeks into treatment, I am feeling like myself again and am confident that I will beat cancer. Incredible progress has been made so far thanks to the Good Lord and the world class team of physicians at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Tomorrow, I will return to Washington for votes and I hope to be present for as much of the fall session that my treatment schedule will allow. The support that I have received during this difficult time has been overwhelming. Thank you for your continued thoughts and prayers. This September, during Leukemia Awareness Month, I intend to keep fighting this disease with all that I have while fighting for Texans in the House of Representatives, just as I always have. And that’s just the way it is.
09.02.2016	HOUSTON- Today, Brock Turner is out of prison. He will return to his life, but the life of his victim may never be the same. The criminal has given her a life sentence of mental pain, anguish, and turmoil. Rape is never the fault of the victim. Too often the focus is on defending, protecting, and excusing sex offenders like Brock Turner. Unfortunately, that is exactly what happened in this case. As a former Judge, I know that the system does not work if those who have the privilege of sitting on the bench fail to ensure that the punishment fits the crime. Judge Persky should be recalled to ensure that justice is not denied for one more victim. There should be no more Brock Turners who escape what they deserve. The punishment for convicted criminals of sexual assault should be longer than a summer break from college.
08.26.2016	Houston, Texas—Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the continued detainment of Houstonian Sandy Phan-Gillis in China. “In March 2015, Sandy Phan-Gillis was about to return to Houston from a business trip in China when she was detained by Chinese authorities for no legitimate reason. Despite international outcry, China continues to hold Phan-Gillis and just charged her with espionage on August 30th, 2016. Chinese authorities refused to allow her to meet with a lawyer for over a year without letting her meet with her lawyers or and are still prohibiting her from giving any details regarding the accusations made against her. Although China claims that Phan-Gillis is suspected of espionage against the country, they have yet to release any evidence supporting such a claim. While imprisoned for nearly a year and a half, they have placed her in solitary confinement and subjected her to brutal interrogations. This is no way to carry out justice. I recently signed on to a letter asking President Obama and Chinese President Xi for the immediate release of Sandy Phan-Gillis. This atrocious violation of human rights must stop. The Administration must demand the release of a fellow Houstonian and end this injustice.” Read the Letter to POTUS Here Read the Letter to XI Here
08.15.2016	
08.08.2016	WASHINGTON— Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and other Members of the Texas Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to President Obama demanding answers regarding the Administration's failure to spend hundreds of millions of dollars in appropriated health prevention funding on Zika. The Zika virus is expected to have a significant impact on Texas and the local Houston area. "The Zika virus has come to America. Our citizens have contracted the virus not only by traveling abroad, but also through domestic mosquitoes infected with Zika. Harris County has a tropical climate and a high mosquito population, making it a potential hotbed for the Zika virus. The effects of Zika in Houston could be large and long lasting. The Texas Department of State Health Services reports that as of August 5th, Texas has 96 reported cases of Zika, including three pregnant women and an infant. Fortunately these cases are not suspected to be locally acquired, although there is a possibility that Texas could see locally acquired cases soon. The President has made this health issue a political dispute, blaming Congress for not passing his Zika funding bill. The truth is Congress previously appropriated funds for health emergencies, of which nearly $400 million has not been spent. The Administration should have repurposed these funds that it already had at its disposal instead of mounting a political fight. We must use all tools available to protect not only Texas but the rest of America from the threat of the Zika virus.” The Delegation’s letter also asks the Administration how much funding the Administration plans on specifically allocating for anti-Zika efforts in Texas. In June, the House passed a bi-partisan bill allocating an additional $1.1 billion for Zika prevention and research. Despite best efforts, the Democrats blocked the compromise bill twice. Attached is a copy of the letter. ###
08.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.- "It has been the long standing policy of this country to not negotiate with terrorists. This Administration has not only negotiated with the largest State Sponsor of Terrorism, it has rewarded them. According to the Wall Street Journal, the White House facilitated a secret ransom payment for our citizens who were held hostage by the Iranians. That payment was just the first 'installment' of the $1.7 billion the President has agreed to send to Tehran.Time and again, this Administration goes out of its way to keep both Congress and the American people in the dark. These funds will fill the coffers of the country who has facilitated and sponsored terrorism against the United States and our allies for decades. This blood money will come back to haunt us. More lives will be lost, more Americans will be kidnapped and our enemy will be stronger than ever. When will the Administration learn that those who call for “Death to America” mean what they say?" ###
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congressman Poe released the following statement after President Obama signed the bipartisan Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act (HR 3766) into law. “I am pleased to hear that the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act has been signed into law”, said Congressman Poe. “A rigorous evaluation of our foreign aid system is completely necessary. For over 50 years, the United States has been operating on an outdated system. I authored the bill because taxpayers deserve to know where the federal government is spending their hard earned dollars. As the current system sits, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to countries around the world, however, no one really knows just how far those dollars go. Now that this bill is law, the American people finally have the ability to see both where there money is sent and how effective the aid provided is. “ ###
07.18.2016	WASHIGTON- U.S. Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Back the Blue Act of 2016, a bill that would increase the penalties for cowardly criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, and provides new tools for officers to protect themselves. “As a prosecutor for over 30 years, I have had the privilege of working alongside some of America’s best, the men and women behind the badge, said Poe. Each day these heroes go into the field, their families not knowing if they are going to return home. These officers separate the good from evil, a thin line that protects a civil society from anarchy. “ The bill also approves grant funding to foster relationships between the police departments and the local communities. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) has introduced the companion bill in the Senate. “Peace officers risk their lives every day to administer justice and create order in our communities. In turn we must work together to support law enforcement. In Dallas and Baton Rouge, our officers have been attacked, harmed and killed for just doing their job. Assault in any way is wrong. This legislation promotes security for those that protect the rest of us. Today, Congress is sending the message that blue lives matter. The thin blue line stands strong.” Background on the Back the Blue Act Creates New Criminal Provisions to Protect Law Enforcement Officers Creates a new federal crime for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to the death penalty and a mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years if death results; the offender would otherwise face a minimum sentence of 10 years. Creates a new federal crime for assaulting a federally funded law enforcement officer with escalating penalties, including mandatory minimums, based on the extent of any injury and the use of a dangerous weapon. However, no prosecution can be commenced absent certification by the Attorney General that prosecution is appropriate. Creates a new federal crime for interstate flight from justice to avoid prosecution for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years for this offense. Creates a Specific Aggravating Factor for Federal Death Penalty Prosecutions Clarifies that the murder or attempted murder of a law enforcement officer or first responder is a statutory aggravating favor for purposes of the federal death penalty. Limits Federal Habeas Relief for Murders of Law Enforcement Officers Imposes time limits and substantive limits on federal courts’ review of challenges to state-court convictions for crimes involving the murder of a public safety officer, when the public safety officer was engaged in the performance of official duties or on account of the performance of official duties. These changes are consistent with the fast-track procedures created in 1996, which are applied to federal death penalty cases. Limits Recovery of Certain Damages and Fees for Individuals Engaged in Felonies Limits the type of civil damages and attorney’s fees recoverable by a criminal as a result of purported injuries incurred during the commission of a felony or crime of violence. Expands Self-Defense and Second Amendment Rights for Law Enforcement Officers Allows law enforcement officers, subject to limited regulation, to carry firearms into federal facilities and other jurisdictions where such possession is otherwise prohibited. Opens Up Grant Funding to Strengthen Relationships Between Police and Communities Expands opportunities to use grant funding to promote trust and improve relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve
07.15.2016	Last night, a cowardly terrorist plowed a heavy truck full of weapons and explosives into the crowds who were gathered to celebrate Bastille Day in Nice, France. The killer, identified by police sources as a 31-year-old Tunisian-born Frenchman opened fire before officers killed him. Now more than ever is a time to be vigilant about our counterterrorism efforts. I have continuously voiced my concern about President Obama’s absence of a coherent and comprehensive strategy to defeat terrorism. One was just finally delivered but it’s classified---Radical Islamic terrorists will deliver on their promise to bring terror to not just the United States, but freedom loving countries around the world if we do not put our resources towards neutralizing this determined enemy. Eighty-Four people are dead, including two Texans. This latest attack is just the latest example of what has unfortunately become the new normal. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families and the people of France.
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, a bipartisan group of lawmakers, led by co-chairs Ted Poe (R-Texas) and U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), announced the newly formed Fourth Amendment Caucus to protect the privacy and security of Americans in the digital age. The bipartisan caucus is comprised of twenty-five founding members, thirteen Republicans and twelve Democrats. The members will lead efforts in the House of Representatives to protect against warrantless searches and seizures, close privacy-violating surveillance loopholes, and champion reform efforts to protect and restore Fourth Amendment rights. “As technology continues to evolve and improve, Congress must ensure that the Fourth Amendment rights of citizens are protected,” said Poe. “Technology may change, but the Constitution does not.” “Members of the House of Representatives from both parties are eager to debate and vote on privacy and surveillance issues that are far too often drafted in secret and jammed through the legislative process under tight deadlines, restrictive procedures, and little debate,” said Lofgren. “From shutting the backdoor on warrantless spying to leading efforts to protect privacy, this Fourth Amendment Caucus gives members a new, nonpartisan forum for ideas, organization, and strategy as we fight to protect the Constitution and the American people.” “Our laws regarding freedom, privacy and civil liberties have not kept up with the rapid expansion of technology in today’s digital age,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii). “I look forward to working with the bipartisan coalition united behind this caucus to protect and strengthen the Fourth Amendment rights granted to each and every American under our Constitution.” “A caucus dedicated to defending Americans’ Fourth Amendment-secured rights is needed now more than ever, and its formation illustrates the growing awareness among the American public and their representatives in Congress of the far-reaching implications of the surveillance state,” said Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.). “In the face of difficult circumstances, some are quick to pursue extreme, unconstitutional measures; the Fourth Amendment Caucus will be a moderating influence that gives voice to countless Americans whose rights are violated by these ill-conceived policies.” "Our founding fathers crafted the Fourth Amendment to withstand the test of time and protect our fundamental right to privacy, but they never could have anticipated today’s world of smartphones and connected cars, said Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.). “With rapidly changing technology and evolving security threats come constant pressures to shift the line between our privacy and acceptable government access to our information. It is time that that Congress had a formal, bipartisan group to share ideas and strategize how to keep that line in check. I am honored to stand with my colleagues today to launch the Fourth Amendment Caucus to keep privacy concerns at the forefront of our debates." "Congress has passed, and continues to pass, dangerous legislation without regard for our Constitution,” said Rep. TomMassie (R-Ky.). "The Fourth Amendment Caucus presents a nonpartisan opportunity to discuss ways to protect our right to privacy." In addition to the announcement, an expert panel discussed Fourth Amendment Issues confronting Congress, moderated by the newly formed Fourth Amendment Advisory Committee. Panel members included Alvaro M. Bedoya, Executive Director of the Center on Privacy and Technology at Georgetown Law, Mike Godwin from the R Street Institute, Neema Singh Guliani, Legislative Counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, and Sean Vitka, Director of the Fourth Amendment Advisory Committee. Founding Members of the Fourth Amendment Caucus: Ted Poe (R-TX) [Co-Chair]Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) [Co-Chair]Barbara Lee (D-CA)Beto O'Rourke (D-TX)Blake Farenthold (R-TX)Dan Kildee (D-MI)David Schweikert (R-AZ)Hank Johnson (D-GA)Jared Polis (D-CO)Jim Jordan (R-OH)John Lewis (D-GA)Justin Amash (R-MI)Louie Gohmert (R-TX)Michael Capuano (D-MA)Mo Brooks (R-AL)Paul Gosar (R-AZ)Peter DeFazio (D-OR)Scott Garrett (R-NJ)Scott Perry (R-PA)Suzan DelBene (D-WA)Ted Lieu (D-CA)Thomas Massie (R-KY)Tom McClintock (R-CA)Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI)Walter Jones (R-NC) ###
07.13.2016	HOUSTON, TX--During the Congressional recess I will be spending time in Texas and focusing on my health. I have been diagnosed with leukemia. In the interim, my staff will be available as usual to assist with any and all casework or federal matters you may have. I am fortunate enough to be treated by the finest physicians in the world right here in Houston at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. It is my intention to beat cancer and have a full recovery and continue to represent the people of Texas. Thank you in advance for your thoughts and your prayers. The Good Lord will fix this, I believe. And that's just the way it is.
07.13.2016	See the letter here
07.08.2016	Last night, citizens exercised their right to protest in the streets of Dallas. As always, Peace Officers were standing nearby, protecting civilians so that they could exercise their first amendment right. Suddenly the protest turned into a war zone when cowardly snipers deliberately targeted and attacked the Peace Officers, spraying them with bullets and leaving the streets in bloody chaos. Twelve officers were shot. Five Peace Officers are dead. Two citizens are injured. Many in our nation are devastated by the two recent police shootings in Louisiana and Minnesota. I believe these cases should be tried by a grand jury as soon as possible. Executing the Peace Officers who risk their lives to protect the rest of us from killers like the cowards in Dallas will lead to more death and anarchy, not a safer America. All lives Matter. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Dallas today.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R.3765, the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2015 out of the House Judiciary Committee. This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Poe, will curb frivolous lawsuits filed by cash-hungry attorneys and plaintiffs that abuse the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act). “The ADA is a vital law that is meant to make American businesses more accessible to the disabled. But the integrity of this important law is being threatened. The vast majority of small businesses in America strive to serve their customers to the best of their ability – relying on the ADA as another tool to help ensure that costumers with disabilities can enjoy the services that they provide,” said Congressman Poe. “There is a now whole industry made up of people who prey on small business owners and file unnecessary abusive lawsuits that abuse both the ADA and the business owners. This bill will change that by requiring that the business owners have time to fix what is allegedly broken. If they fail to correct the infractions the plaintiff retains all of their rights to pursue legal action. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of attorneys.” The legislation has broad support by organizations including ICSC, the U.S. Chamber of Congress, the American Hotel and Lodging Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, National Apartment Association, National Federation of Independent Businesses, National Restaurant Association, and the Retail Industry Leaders Association among others.
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) released the following statement following the House passage of the bipartisan Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act (HR 3766). HR 3766 first passed the House unanimously in December. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) sponsored the bill in the Senate. The amended version of the House bill passed the Senate earlier this month and passed the House as amended this evening. It will now head to President Obama’s desk. The “Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act” requires the President to establish guidelines on measurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for foreign aid programs. Secondly, it would increase aid transparency by codifying what is currently being done through the Foreign Assistance Dashboard and increasing the amount of information required to be posted online, including actual expenditures and evaluations. Congressman Poe: “It is time to modernize and reform our outdated foreign aid system. For the first time in over 50 years, a bill requiring our foreign aid to be rigorously evaluated is heading to the President’s desk. Under the current system, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to a majority of the countries in the world, but no one really knows how far those dollars go. Once the President signs this bill into law the American people will finally have the ability to see not only where their money is sent but also how efficient and effective that aid is.” Congressman Connolly: “Foreign assistance is a critical and necessary tool for protecting and proliferating democratic values. We need to expand, not disinvest, in our global leadership,” said Rep. Connolly. “This bill will bring needed transparency to an often misunderstood part of the federal budget, which will in turn allow us to continue to grow our investment in stability and prosperity abroad.”
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on the latest attack on Camp Liberty: Chairman Poe: “This weekend, Camp Liberty once again came under heavy fire when some 50 rockets rained down on the home of Iranian dissidents living there. This latest attack on the Camp is unfortunately not a surprise. Empty promises from our State Department to protect the residents of Camp Liberty has delivered nothing but more violence. Iraq cannot and does not want to protect these freedom fighters. It is time to expedite their safe removal from Iraq to other countries.”
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) released the following statement following the Senate passage of the bipartisan Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act (HR 3766). HR 3766 first passed the House unanimously in December. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) sponsored the bill in the Senate. The amended version of the House bill passed the Senate today and the House is expected to take it up soon. The “Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act” requires the President to establish guidelines on measurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for foreign aid programs. Secondly, it would increase aid transparency by codifying what is currently being done through the Foreign Assistance Dashboard and increasing the amount of information required to be posted online, including actual expenditures and evaluations. Congressman Poe: “It is time to modernize and reform our outdated foreign aid system. For the first time in over 50 years, this bill requires our foreign aid to be rigorously evaluated. This bipartisan bill would increase public oversight over foreign aid by requiring federal agencies to show both where taxpayer money is spent around the world and how effective that aid is. Under the current system, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to a majority of the countries in the world, but no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Implementing a system to evaluate the success (or failure) of each program will increase accountability. It is also important for Americans to know exactly where their money is sent, which is why the new transparency requirements in this bill are so important. The unanimous passage in the Senate today shows just how common sense this bill is. I look forward to the House quickly taking it up.” Congressman Connolly: "I welcome the Senate’s passage of the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act. Foreign assistance is a critical and necessary tool for protecting and proliferating democratic values. We need to expand, not disinvest, in our global leadership. This bill will bring needed transparency to an often misunderstood part of the federal budget, which will in turn allow us to continue to grow our investment in stability and prosperity abroad. I look forward to moving quickly to consideration in the House of Representatives, which passed a version of the bill by voice vote in December.” Senator Rubio: “Foreign assistance programs help us to advance American interests, reinforce our alliances and support the spread of economic and political freedom around the world, but we must remember that they are funded here at home by the American people, who have a right to know how and where their money is being spent. Not only will this act increase the amount of information that is shared regarding these programs, it will also help us to evaluate their efficiency and effectiveness, ensuring that American dollars are spent wisely.” Senator Cardin: “The United States remains a generous leader on foreign development, aid programs and economic assistance worldwide. But with more than a dozen federal departments and agencies delivering U.S. foreign assistance, we must ensure the highest possible efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of our precious foreign assistance investments. The Senate’s passage of the Foreign Assistance Transparency and Accountability Act sends a clear message to the American taxpayer, as well as governments and civil society in developing countries, that transparency and accountability are absolutely critical to the effectiveness of our foreign assistance programs. This information will not only enable American citizens to better understand our foreign assistance efforts, but will allow recipient countries to better include aid flows in their budgets and planning, and will provide NGOs, legislators and citizens in the developing world with the information they need to hold their governments accountable for the assistance they receive. Today’s Senate passage also takes us one step closer toward fulfilling our obligations under the International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI).” ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, sent a letter to the White House inquiring about the Administration’s failure to meet a June 18th deadline required by law for the Administration to submit a report to Congress on the U.S. government’s counterterrorism strategy to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat the Islamic State, al-Qaeda, and their affiliated groups. “The Administration has yet again ignored the law and missed a mandated deadline, this time one affecting our national security. Nearly two years after the President admitted that ‘we don’t have a strategy’, we still don’t have a strategy. In the meantime, according to CIA Director John Brennan, ISIS’ capability and global reach have not reduced. ISIS continues to inspire attackers who murder innocent Americans right here in the United States. Last December, the House passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which included language I authored requiring the President to submit to Congress his strategy to defeat ISIS by June 18. June 18th has come and gone with no strategy in sight or response from the White House. There is no excuse not to have a strategy. Too many Americans have already lost their lives.” CLICK HERE for full text of letter.
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on the terrorist attack in Orlando, Florida. “This weekend, as innocent young men and women were ending their Saturday night celebration, a radical Islamic gunman stormed Pulse night club in Orlando, murdering 49 people and injuring dozens of others. This radical Islamic terrorist pledged allegiance to ISIS during the horrific massacre. ISIS’s hatred knows few bounds: they hate Americans, Christians, Jews, other Muslims who don’t hold its radical beliefs, women, and the gay community. This terrorist attack was an attack on the gay community in Orlando, but it was also an attack on our nation – the worst attack on U.S. soil since September 11th. A terrorist attack on one community is an attack on us all. This is a reminder to all of us that we are at war with an evil ideology that has already infiltrated our borders, that hates our nation and our people – as individuals and as groups -- and is determined to attack us wherever it can. As Americans, we should ALL come together to stand united against those radical ideologies that seek to destroy our communities based on their own distorted faith. The Administration must eliminate this 21st Century enemy-without-borders and do everything it can to better protect our citizens. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims as they grieve and mourn.”
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) received the Georgian Presidential Medal of Honor. As a long time advocate for the continued relationship between the United States and Georgia, he is proud to have received this award. “The Georgian people and their government share our Western values; as the world leader in freedom and democracy, it is in our national interest to see the same freedoms we enjoy spread to people throughout the world,” said Congressman Poe. The Republic of Georgia has known authoritarian rule for most of its young life. However, in their past 25 years of freedom, they have been continuously ranked as the freest country in the region. I am honored to stand resolutely with the Republic of Georgia and am pleased to accept this gracious award.” “The Medal of Honor is presented to the Honorable Ted Poe, U.S. House Representative, for the enhancement of strategic relations between the United States and Georgia as well as for his staunch support rendered to Georgia’s Euro-Atlantic integration, national interests, and sovereignty,” said David Abesadze, Senior Counselor of the Georgian Embassy. Congressman Poe received the Presidential Medal of Honor last night at a dinner with the Georgian Embassy. ###
06.07.2016	Last week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) regarding its mechanism for funding local communities’ response to the Zika virus. According to the CDC, Harris County, the third largest county in the country, is ineligible for the Epidemiology and Laboratory Capacity for Infectious Diseases (ELC) Cooperative Agreement grants. “Without this source of funding, I am concerned that Harris County will be unable to protect its citizens from the public health threat posed by the Zika virus,” said Congressman Ted Poe.” “Texas is roughly the same size as France. In a state that is so large, we must actively work to ensure that Harris County is not overlooked by the CDC. We are vulnerable to the threat of Zika virus for several reasons. Both mosquito vectors that carry Zika virus are present in Harris County. Located on the Gulf Coast, we have experienced high flood waters in recent months. In addition, there are also areas of our community that are poverty stricken. Each of these factors create conditions that are ideal for mosquitoes to breed. The CDC must work with our community both now and in the future to address this flawed grant system and help allocate federal dollars for Harris County’s public health response.”
06.03.2016	“According to the State Department’s 2015 Country Reports on Terrorism released on Thursday, Pakistan “did not take substantial action against the Afghan Taliban or HQN [Haqqani Network]” and has done little to deter home-grown jihadist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. That is why I recently authored an amendment to the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act that responds to Pakistan’s questionable relationship with the Taliban and Haqqani network terrorists by adding a condition on U.S. aid to Pakistan. The new condition requires the administration to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives. The choice: either actually go after the Haqqani network once and for all or lose hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. aid. Give Pakistan an ultimatum—you are either with us or you are with the terrorists. Islamabad can no longer collect U.S. aid while using the Haqqani network as a ‘veritable arm of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency’.”
05.25.2016	For Immediate Release May 25, 2016 Contact: Meghan Burris [Wagner] Jennifer Bell [Maloney] Shaylyn Hynes [Poe] Dominic Manecke [Beatty] Washington – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-02), along with Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY-12), and Joyce Beatty (D-OH-03), Ann Wagner (R-MO-02), held a joint press conference to call on the Department of Justice (DOJ) to fully implement the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) of 2015. Nearly a year after JVTA became law, the Members expressed concern that the DOJ has yet to implement the entirety of the law. Lack of implementation would thwart Congressional efforts to combat modern day slavery. In addition to the press conference, Wagner, Maloney, Poe and Beatty sent a bipartisan letter signed by 37 Members of Congress, to Attorney General Loretta Lynch urging DOJ to immediately act and shed light on several areas of delayed implementation, including the prosecution of buyers and populating the Domestic Trafficking Victims’ Fund. “JVTA clarifies that those who buy sex from trafficking victims are human traffickers, can and should be punished under federal law, and are subject to the same penalties as sellers,” said Congressman Poe. “JVTA has done a lot to change the mindset of people in this country. But we need the law to be fully implemented by all the agencies charged with executing the law including DOJ, HHS, and DHS. We anxiously await the response to our letter. A society will be judged by how it treats the most vulnerable.” “Whether victims are manipulated online or abducted off the streets, we have a responsibility to protect our most vulnerable from this form of modern day slavery,” said Congresswoman Wagner. “I am grateful for the steps the DOJ has taken thus far to implement portions of the JVTA. However, there is more work ahead of all of us, and as an advocate, I refuse to pass this law and just walk away. The DOJ must implement every portion of JVTA, including my legislation within the package—the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act.” “Human trafficking is modern-day slavery, and it is happening every day in every state, generating billions of dollars in illegal profits by stripping women, men, and children of their freedoms, of their dignity, and for some, their lives. And, until last year, our laws were backwards. Instead of going after the traffickers our laws were punishing the victims,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “That’s why passing the JVTA was a milestone in the campaign to end human trafficking. I am proud to join my colleagues in this call to the Department of Justice to fully implement this landmark legislation that will bring traffickers to justice and justice to victims.” “I consider the passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act to be one of my proudest moments in Congress. As we mark the Act’s one year anniversary, several provisions have yet to be implemented,” said Congresswoman Beatty. “I join my Congressional colleagues in calling on the Department of Justice to expedite implementation of outstanding JVTA provisions to help eradicate human trafficking and to provide services for victims.” The Members expressed their gratitude for the support and advice of: Coalition Against Trafficking and Exploitation; Coalition Against Trafficking in Women International; Courtney’s House; The Covering House; Crisis Aid International; Demand Abolition; ECPAT-USA; Eastern North Carolina Stop Human Trafficking Now; Equality NOW; National Children's Alliance; Rights4Girls; Second Life Chattanooga; and Shared Hope International. ### Bipartisan Letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman John Conyers (D-MI) along with Congressman Blake Fahrenthold (R-TX) and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced H.R. 5321 the Stop Mass Hacking Act. This is the companion bill to legislation introduced on the Senate side by Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Rand Paul (R-KY). The Department of Justice has recently moved to make an administrative rule change to Rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure that would give the government the ability to hack the computers of a massive amount of American citizens just by obtaining a single warrant. If Congress does not act by December 1, 2016, this change will be in effect. The Stop Massive Hacking Act prevents these changes to Rule 41 from going into effect. “Government does not have the authority to unilaterally legalize widespread government hacking,” said Rep. Poe. “Americans have rights. It is Congress’ responsibility to safeguard the constitutional rights of the people they represent from a power hungry Executive Branch. As such, we are moving to stop this change that condones hacking the property of the very people we are entrusted to protect.” “I stand by the Stop Mass Hacking Act because I am not yet convinced that the proposed changes to Rule 41 are wise or necessary,” said Rep. Conyers. “This rule change is designed to streamline investigative techniques that allow law enforcement to gain unauthorized access and control to remote computer systems. Until Congress has had an opportunity to examine this proposal in detail—and until we have adequately addressed the privacy concerns raised by my colleagues—this rule change should not take effect.” “This bill hits pause on a new rule which facilitates hacking of foreign entities and hijacking devices owned by the victims of malware attacks without their permission,” said Rep. Lofgren. “These troubling activities, and the international, privacy, and security ramifications which may arise as a result, deserve serious deliberation and debate in Congress.” “We’re in the midst right now of one of the biggest battles in the privacy world that we have faced,” said Rep Farenthold. “Because of the horrendous terrorist attacks we’ve witnessed, there’s a willingness to give up some of our freedoms and privacy in order to feel safe. That’s completely understandable, but if we keep down this path, we’re going to wake up in a few years in George Orwell’s ‘1984.’ This is why, as we fight for security, the intrusion on privacy necessary to fight the war on terror needs to be narrowly tailored and aggressively overseen.” “Representatives Poe, Conyers, Farenthold and Lofgren are leading the fight to protect Americans’ freedoms by introducing the Stopping Mass Hacking Act in the House of Representatives,” said Senator Wyden. “They’re proof that a growing, bipartisan coalition agrees that this expansion of the government’s hacking and surveillance authority simply goes too far.” Read a one-page summary and bill text of the Stopping Mass Hacking (SMH) Act.
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), released the following statement regarding Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald’s comparison of the VA wait times to that of Disneyland. “The VA is not the ‘Happiest Place on Earth’. It is not Disneyland, and our veterans are not living in a world of make-believe. Secretary McDonald should be ashamed of himself for belittling our veterans. Dying in line waiting for medical services is not the same as waiting for Mickey Mouse.” “Disneyland wait times are a matter of hours- not months. Reports find that nearly half of vets never see a doctor because of failure of VA staff to schedule an appointment. The VA owes our veterans an apology. Veterans should be allowed to get vouchers for private physicians. “ “Next week we observe memorial day- honoring our warriors who died for America. We also will honor those who fought in faraway- distant lands just to come home and be a casualty of the VA’s incompetence. Secretary McDonald should be replaced with someone who respects America’s heroes and ensures that no one else dies in line waiting for care at the fault of the VA.”
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism issued the following statement on the House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016. The defense funding bill included four amendments authored by Chairman Poe. SUMMARY OF AMENDMENTS: Poe Amendment # 14: Gives State and Federal Border Security Agencies preference for excess DOD equipment for the purpose of strengthening U.S. border security. This equipment (all currently used by CBP) includes: Humvees, night-vision goggles & unmanned surveillance aerial vehicles. Passed with Bipartisan Support Poe Amendment #104: Responds to Pakistan’s questionable relationship with the Taliban and Haqqani network terrorists by adding a condition on U.S. aid to Pakistan. The new condition requires the administration to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives. The Choice: either really go after the Haqqani network or lose hundreds of millions of dollars in U.S. aid. Poe Amendment #106: Cracks down on Russia’s blatant violations of the Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty by prohibiting government contracts with entities that have contribute to Russia’s violation of the treaty. In 2008, the Russians tested a missile with prohibited range under the treaty. It took 2 years for the Administration to report any concerns to Congress and 6 years for the State Department to find them in violation. And today, 8 years later, there have still been no consequences. This Amendment puts penalties in place for Russia’s actions. Passed the House unanimously Poe Amendment #297: Requires DOD to establish an evaluation policy for how it spends foreign aid. This evaluation policy must help determine if the taxpayer dollars we are sending overseas are achieving the desired outcome. Passed the House unanimously “From Czar Putin in Russia to deceitful Pakistan and dangerous actors who wish to infiltrate our porous Southern border, America is under more threats than ever before and as such Congress must provide smart funding for the Department of Defense,” said Chairman Poe. “Provide Border States the equipment they need to protect the sovereignty of our country. Give Pakistan an ultimatum—you are either with us or you are with the terrorists. Islamabad can no longer collect U.S. aid while using the Haqqani network as a ‘veritable arm of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Agency’. Crack down on Putin’s flagrant and bold violations of the INF, a treaty that is meaningless if both sides don’t hold up their end of the bargain. Finally, be smart about how we spend foreign aid in the Department of Defense. Monitoring and evaluation will ensure that taxpayer dollars are being used efficiently and effectively in ways that will ultimately protect our own national interests. All three of these Amendments are meant for one purpose: to keep our country safe. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, I believe the House passed bipartisan National Defense bill will achieve this purpose.”
05.17.2016	POE INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TARGETING INDIVIDUALS WITH TIES TO TERROR IN THE NON-PROFIT WORLD WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, has introduced H.R. 5185, the Charity Transparency Act of 2016. This bill will amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require disclosure of charity employees and board members previously implicated in financially supporting a designated foreign terrorist organization. “America is home to some of the best non-profit organizations in the world. Unfortunately, the non-profit community has been polluted by individuals with ties to terrorism,” said Chairman Poe. “Right now, individuals who have been identified and flagged are able to freely move to other non-profit organizations without the knowledge of their donors. Individuals with ties to terrorism should not be involved in the American non-profit world, period. If they are, donors of organizations must be made aware of who is employed by the non-profit they are donating to. The Charity Transparency Act of 2015 will require that.” THE PROBLEM: Right now, there are former employees of charities that were disbanded for funneling money to designated foreign terrorist groups holding leadership positions in new charities with donors oblivious to their questionable employment histories. The Treasury Department and the IRS must protect donors by requiring greater transparency. At a recent subcommittee hearing, it was revealed that numerous employees of charities shut down by Treasury for sending money to terrorist organizations are currently working in new 501(c)(3) organizations unbeknownst to many of the non-profit’s donors. Charitable individuals who might be interested in making donations to these tax exempt organizations currently have no way of knowing that employees in their leadership positions were formerly employed at organizations engaged in illicit activity. THE SOLUTION: H.R. 5185, The Charity Transparency Act of 2015, would address this issue and grant greater access to information to potential donors. The bill requires organizations applying for 501(c)(3) status, as well as those renewing their application for the tax exemption, to disclose if any of their employees in leadership positions were previously employed at organizations disbanded on terrorism finance grounds, blocked pending investigation, or found civilly liable in supporting terrorist groups. ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03) wrote a letter to the Obama Administration inquiring as to whether there is any evidence of China providing ballistic missile assistance to Pakistan. Recent reports have stated that the transport carrier for Pakistan’s’ new medium range nuclear ballistic missile was designed by the same Chinese company that transferred six similar carriers to North Korea in 2011. Read the Letter Here
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) wrote a letter to President Obama urging him to use his upcoming Visit to Vietnam to improve their respect for basic human rights. As Vietnam seeks to deepen economic and trade partnerships with the United States, we must push the Vietnamese government to end the egregious violations of basic human rights. Read the Letter Here
04.26.2016	With the federal disaster declaration, Harris County residents may be eligible for FEMA major disaster benefits, including: Disaster Housing Disaster Housing may be available for up to 18 months, using local resources, for displaced persons whose residences were heavily damaged or destroyed. Funding also can be provided for housing repairs and replacement of damaged items to make homes habitable. Disaster Grants Disaster Grants are available to help meet other serious disaster-related needs and necessary expenses not covered by insurance and other aid programs. These may include replacement of personal property, and transportation, medical, dental and funeral expenses. Low-Interest Disaster Loans Low-Interest Disaster Loans are available after a disaster for homeowners, renters and small businesses from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to cover uninsured property losses. Loans may be available for repair or replacement of homes, automobiles, clothing or other damaged personal property. Loans are also available to businesses for property loss and economic injury. Other Disaster Aid Programs Other Disaster Aid Programs include crisis counseling, disaster-related unemployment assistance, legal aid and assistance with income tax, Social Security and Veteran's benefits. Assistance Process After the application is taken, the damaged property is inspected to verify the loss. If approved, an applicant will soon receive a check for rental assistance or a grant. Loan applications require more information and approval may take several weeks after application. The deadline for most individual assistance programs is 60 days following the President's major disaster declaration. Application forms and additional information can be found at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. If you need any help with your application or if you have any questions regarding the process, please call my district office at (281) 446-0242.
04.25.2016	HOUSTON, TX—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and the entire Texas Congressional delegation joined together to call on President Obama to grant a federal major disaster declaration for Texas in light of the significant damage caused by the major April 17th storm in Harris County. The letter reads: “The Governor has determined that this event is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the state and the affected local governments.” In the days after the storm, Congressman Poe toured multiple sites in his Congressional district that were affected by flooding in the Houston area. “Local officials in the Houston area have done a good job with the resources they have to help recover from this deadly storm,” said Rep. Poe. “However, the Federal Government should stand ready and willing to support Southeast Texas just as it has after disasters in other parts of the country.” TO READ FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER CLICK HERE
04.22.2016	Austin, Texas – This year’s Texas Peace Officers’ Memorial Ceremony, honoring those who died in the line of duty in 2015, will be held on May 1-2 at the Texas Capitol grounds. The event will begin with a Candlelight Vigil at 7:30 p.m. Sunday at the Memorial wall with United States Congressman Ted Poe delivering the keynote address. The Memorial Ceremony will take place at 11 a.m. Monday on the south steps of the Capitol. This will include Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick presenting medals and resolutions to the surviving family members. "This annual Memorial Ceremony is a priceless opportunity for both the civic and Law Enforcement communities to come together to honor and pay tribute to our fallen peace officers. These heroes have paid the ultimate sacrifice while courageously protecting and serving the citizens of the great State of Texas. We will be forever thankful for what these families have sacrificed," said Ashlee Hardy, President of Metroplex Concerns of Police Survivors. Members of Law enforcement from across the state, friends and families of our fallen officers, elected officials, and countless supporters of law enforcement will be in attendance. The ceremony is coordinated and hosted by the Texas Chapters of Concerns of Police Survivors (C.O.P.S.), which includes the Metroplex, Greater Houston, and South Texas chapters. The fallen officers being honored are: Eligio Ruiz Garcia, JR., Texas Department of Criminal Justice Christopher A. Davis, Texas Department of Criminal Justice Richard K. Martin, Houston Police Department Christopher Dan Kelley, Hutto Police Department Korby Lee Kennedy, San Angelo Police Department Tronoski D. Jones, Harris County Sheriff’s Office Darren H. Goforth, Harris County Sheriff’s Office Jeffrey Emmons Radford, Bell County Constable’s Office William Karl Keesee, Texas Department of Public Safety Darrell L. Allen, Marlin Police Department Timothy A. Davison, Texas Department of Criminal Justice
04.22.2016	“According to reports, the Administration is now using taxpayer money to support Iran’s nuclear program in the latest tranche of the disastrous nuclear deal. Once again, the only winner is Iran. The Administration should demand that Iran destroy its excess heavy water, not profit from it. This White House seems to be more concerned with propping up Iran’s nuclear program than dismantling it. American taxpayers should not foot the bill for this reckless and misguided deal that threatens our national security.”
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the follow statement on the passage of H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act out of the House Judiciary Committee. The Email Privacy Act reforms the outdated Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) law of 1986. Under current law, the federal government can gain access to any electronic communications that is stored for at least 6 months in the cloud. “Today the House Judiciary Committee took a historic step to finally reform the outdated 1986 ECPA law to keep up with today’s digital world. While I am glad that the committee addressed the issue of warrant for content in regards to emails and other information stored in the cloud, I strongly believe that there is more work to do, such as ensuring that the Fourth Amendment protections apply to aerial surveillance and data stored abroad. A warrant should also be required for the government to obtain geolocation information about an American citizen. Simply put, the government should not be able to snoop and spy on our movements through smart phones and other devices. The Fourth Amendment does not have an exception that says: “except in the digital world” or “except in national security instances”. Our data – no matter whether it is physical or data - should only be able to be obtained by the government subject to a lawful warrant. It is my hope that the Email Privacy Act is the start, not the end, of our review of privacy and the Fourth Amendment in the digital age. Poe is the co-author of H.R. 983, The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act, which modernizes ECPA by requiring government to obtain a search warrant prior to intercepting or forcing disclosure of electronic communications or geolocation data and H.R. 3962, the Protect Individuals from Mass Aerial Surveillance Act, which would require the federal government to obtain a warrant to conduct aerial surveillance in the U.S.
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Co-Chairs and Co-Founders Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) joined members Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Seth Moulton (D-MA), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals who have given their time and service to helping victims. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Caucus. The Congressional Victims' Rights Caucus (VRC) is a proven and effective leader in advocating for crime victims. During its 10 year existence, the VRC has taken the lead in protecting programs that provide critical support for victim services throughout the nation, including the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA). The Caucus was instrumental in the enactment of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, the Cruise Vessel Safety and Security Act of 2009, the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011, the SAFER Act of 2013, the Victims of Child Abuse Act Reauthorization Act of 2013, and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015. Each year, it hosts various briefings on victims’ rights issues, including domestic violence, child abuse, elder abuse, human trafficking as well as various other topics. It also recognizes National Crime Victims’ Rights Week with an annual awards ceremony. “Today’s honorees are some of the most committed people in their field,” said Rep. Poe. Their work and advocacy have inspired meaningful changes that should never be forgotten. Each year the VRC has the privilege of honoring those unsung heroes who have dedicated their lives to advocating on behalf of crime victims. Yasmin Vafa is one such individual, dedicating her life to stopping human trafficking and giving vulnerable women and girls a voice. We thank her and the rest of the awardees for their tireless efforts to ensure that victims of crimes are not just statistics. They are remembered because they are real people with real stories who have had something bad happen to them.” “Today, the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is proudly celebrating 10 years of advocating for victims of crime and survivors. From protecting the Crime Victims Fund to reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, the caucus and supporting groups have made a positive difference in millions of lives,” said Rep. Costa. “It is a pleasure to recognize Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) of Merced County with the Allied Professional Award for all they do to serve children who are victims of abuse and neglect. Sadly, children in the foster care system are too often in a situation where they do not have a single person in their life to trust and rely on, but Merced CASA volunteers have changed that horrible reality for hundreds of children throughout the county.” "Blanca Kling works tirelessly to build trust between Maryland's large Hispanic community and local law enforcement, leading to safer and more peaceful communities for everyone,” said Rep. Van Hollen. “Her work as a victims rights advocate and as a Spanish-language media spokesperson has helped thousands of survivors of crime and their families, and I congratulate her on this much-deserved recognition." “The Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award recognizes a crime victim or survivor who has triumphed over adversity and used his or her experience to promote awareness of crime victims’ rights,” said Rep. Moulton. "Maureen and Jane Mahoney have exemplified these attributes throughout their lives. On the 40th anniversary of their parents' and brother’s deaths, Maureen and Jane organized a community event in Tewksbury, Massachusetts to honor their family by raising awareness and funds for local organizations that focus on domestic violence. I am honored to have nominated such a deserving pair of individuals from the Sixth District.” “Domestic abuse not only has a lasting physical and emotional impact on victims, it can also leave scars with the children and loved ones who have to witness the violence,” said Rep. Reichert. “With one in three women suffering some form of physical abuse from a partner over the course of their lifetime, it is critical that we give victims the resources, strength, and hope they need to come out of the shadows and begin the healing process. The recipients of the Victims’ Rights Caucus Award have done important work to reach this goal and I am grateful for the opportunity to recognize their tireless efforts.” The awards were live streamed on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page. ### The 2012 Victim’s Rights Caucus Recipients: Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation The Lois Haight award pays tribute to California Judge Lois Haight who, as an appointee of President Ronald Reagan and Chair of his 1982 President’s Task Force on Victims of Crime, led pioneering efforts on behalf of crime victims that resulted in significant public policy advances to promote crime victims’ rights and services. The honoree is a professional whose efforts have had a significant impact on local, state, national or international public policy development and implementation that promote dignity, respect, rights and services for victims of crime. Yasmin Vafa, Executive Director, Rights4Girls Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-R) Yasmin Vafa is the Executive Director and formerly Director of Law and Policy for Human Rights Project for Girls (Rights4Girls), a human rights organization focused on gender-based violence and its impact on vulnerable young women and girls in the U.S.As a human rights attorney and advocate, Yasmin works to advance policies to address gendered violence and human trafficking in the U.S. She has achieved several major policy wins at the federal level, designed and implemented a national judicial institute on child trafficking, and co-authored a seminal report mapping girls' unique pathways into the juvenile justice system. She currently serves as a faculty adjunct educator and consultant for the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, served on the Advisory Board for the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention's National Girls Initiative, and was as a member of the Department of Justice’s National Task Force on the Use of Restraints with Pregnant Women and Girls under Correctional Custody. Allied Professional Award The Allied Professional award recognizes the efforts of individuals, organizations, and/or coalitions that directly benefit victims of crime, but whom are not direct victim service providers. The honoree exhibits leadership, creativity and commitment in linking allied professions to improve the plight of crime victims in our Nation. CASA of Merced County Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-D) Merced CASA advocates for abused and neglected children in the foster care system who often find themselves without someone they can turn to. Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) of Merced County is a non-profit organization that trains community volunteers to serve as powerful advocates for our community's most vulnerable at-risk children and youth. Each year there are approximately 5,600 allegations of child abuse and neglect in Merced County, with more than 700 substantiated findings. Many children are removed from their home and placed in unfamiliar surroundings. They desperately need someone to advocate for their best interests; someone who will be consistently by their side throughout the time they spend in the foster care system. These children need to have their voices heard in Court. A CASA volunteer can do just that. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award The Unsung Hero Award is in memorial of Eva Murillo, a prominent crime victim advocate from California. The honoree is a crime victim or survivor who has utilized their experiences to promote public education and awareness, public policy development and greater awareness about crime victims’ rights and needs. Lane Judson Nominated by Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) On April 26, 2003, Lane Judson’s daughter, Crystal was fatally shot by her husband who also happened to be the Police Chief of the Tacoma, Washington Police Department. The shooting came one day after city officials publically announced that Crystal’s claims of abuse and threats would not be investigated because it was a “private matter.” After losing his daughter, Mr. Judson dedicated his life to helping and supporting victims of domestic violence. He was instrumental in the creation of the Crystal Judson Family Justice Center in Tacoma, WA, which was established in 2005 to serve the needs of the domestic violence victims and their children by providing comprehensive victim services in order to help families heal and bring them hope. My Judson also lead the fight to incorporate the Crystal Judson Domestic Violence Protocol Program into the 2006 Violence Against, which created a grant available to law enforcement agencies to use in training their officers in the area of domestic violence. Mr. Judson has turned unimaginable tragedy into positive action to advocate on behalf of all domestic violence victims. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Maureen Mahoney Nominated by Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06) Maureen Mahoney’s parents and brother were murdered in a robbery gone wrong when she was a young adult. She has used this tragedy to educate the community and raise funds for community-based organizations who combat crime and support survivors and their families. Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy The Stout Memorial Award is in memory of Ed Stout, the Director of Aid for Victims of Crime in St. Louis. The Honoree is a professional or volunteer whose efforts have directly benefited victims and survivors of crime. Beth Hassett, Executive Director, WEAVE-Ed Nominated by Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-06) Beth Hassett is the Executive Director of WEAVE, an agency that works to meet the needs of victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. While the agency is proud of its past accomplishments, it remains a forward-looking, visionary agency working to change the way victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking are treated within the various systems in which they face obstacles. Established in 1978, WEAVE is Sacramento’s oldest and most comprehensive domestic violence agency and sole Rape Crisis Center. WEAVE works to build a community that does not tolerate domestic violence and sexual assault and provides survivors with the support they need to be safe and thrive. The agency provides in-person and telephone support to more than 12,000 survivors each year. Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness The Public Awareness Award is in memory of Susanne McDaniel, one of the first prosecutor-based victim advocates in Texas and the nation. The honoree is an individual or organization that has used his/her/its voice, throughout the media, to promote and to bring about change at the National level for crime victims. Blanca Kling, Hispanic Liaison, Media Services Division, Montgomery County Department of Police Nominated by Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-08) Since 2005, Ms. Kling has worked tirelessly to develop open and productive lines of communication between the MCPD and various communities, with a special focus on the Hispanic community. Previously, the MCPD recognized that there was significant distrust between MCPS and the Hispanic community, which had a detrimental impact on the effectiveness of the MCPD in responding to crime and community issues. Ms. Kling conducts outreach to the 170,000 Hispanics who live and work in Montgomery County. She is instrumental in supporting the Latino community, particularly newly arrived immigrants who face challenges in assimilating to a new culture, language and legal system. Thanks to her outstanding work, people are less fearful about reporting crimes that have been committed against them or that they have witnessed. This has had a significant impact on the individual and public safety in Montgomery County. Ms. Kilng has been extremely effective in disseminating information to Spanish-language media in order to provide support to victims and prevent crimes in the Hispanic community. She has also worked with local, national, and international leaders to ensure that they have the tools to ensure safety for their constituencies. Her work as a media spokesperson, community leader, and a victim rights advocate has helped thousands of victims and survivors of crime and their families.
04.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – On Wednesday, April 13th at 10:00 AM, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-R) and Congressman Jim Costa (CA-D) will host the Annual Victims’ Rights Caucus Awards. The awards ceremony will be held in Room 2226 of the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, D.C. Each year Reps. Poe and Costa, along with other members of the bipartisan VRC, host an awards ceremony to honor outstanding individuals and organizations for their tireless efforts to support and empower victims of crime. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Bi-Partisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, co-founded by Reps. Poe and Costa. Award Recipients: Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation Yasmin Vafa, Executive Director, Rights4Girls Nominated by Rep. Ted Poe (TX-R) As a human rights attorney and advocate, Yasmin works to advance policies to address gendered violence and human trafficking in the U.S. She has achieved several major policy wins at the federal level, designed and implemented a national judicial institute on child trafficking, and co-authored a seminal report mapping girls' unique pathways into the juvenile justice system. She currently serves as a faculty adjunct educator and consultant for the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, served on the Advisory Board for the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention's National Girls Initiative, and was as a member of the Department of Justice’s National Task Force on the Use of Restraints with Pregnant Women and Girls under Correctional Custody. Allied Professional Award CASA of Merced County Nominated by Rep. Jim Costa (CA-D) Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) of Merced County is a non-profit organization that trains community volunteers to serve as powerful advocates for the community's most vulnerable at-risk children and youth. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Lane Judson Nominated by Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) After his daughter was fatally shot by her husband, Mr. Judson dedicated his life to helping and supporting victims of domestic violence. He was instrumental in the creation of the Crystal Judson Family Justice Center in Tacoma, WA, and he has led the fight to incorporate the Crystal Judson Domestic Violence Protocol Program into the 2006 Violence Against Women Act. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Maureen Mahoney Nominated by Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06) Maureen Mahoney’s parents were murdered when she was a young adult. She has used this tragedy to educate the community and raise funds for community-based organizations who combat crime and support survivors and their families. Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Beth Hassett, Executive Director, WEAVE-Ed Nominated by Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-06) WEAVE works to meet the needs of victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. The organization is a forward-looking, visionary agency working to change the way victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking are treated within the various systems in which they face obstacles. Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness Blanca Kling, Hispanic Liaison, Media Services Division, Montgomery County Department of Police Nominated by Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-08) Since 2005, Ms. Kling has worked tirelessly to develop open and productive lines of communication between the Montgomery County (MD) Police Department and various communities, with a special focus on the Hispanic community. Ms. Kling conducts outreach to the 170,000 Hispanics who live and work in the county. Since 2005, Ms. Kling has worked tirelessly to develop open and productive lines of communication between the Montgomery County (MD) Police Department and various communities, with a special focus on the Hispanic community. The awards will be live streamed on Congressman Ted Poe’s Facebook Page. All media interested in attending must RSVP to Shaylyn Hynes (Shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.gov) and Karina Erickson (Karina.Erickson@mail.house.gov) no later than 5:00 PM on Monday, April 11th. ###
04.01.2016	REPS. POE, OLSON TO HOST A SUMMIT ON ENCRYPTION AT RICE UNIVERSITY HOUSTON, TEXAS – On Monday, April 11th at 10:00 AM, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22) will host a summit on “Encryption: Balancing the Needs of Law Enforcement and the Fourth Amendment.” The summit will be held at Rice University’s Baker Institute for Public Policy (6100 Main Street) in Houston, Texas. Expert testimony will be provided by: 1. Harris County Sheriff Ron Hickman 2. David Snead, Counsel at CPanel 3. Van Lindberg, Vice President at RackSpace 4. David Hoffman, Associate General Counsel and Chief Privacy Officer at The Intel Corporation 5. Mike Godwin, Director of Innovation Policy and General Counsel at RStreet 6. Dr. Dan Wallach, Baker Institute Rice Faculty Scholar; Professor of Computer Science Visit encryption.splashthat.com for more details. All media interested in attending must RSVP to Shaylyn Hynes (Shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.gov) no later than 5PM on Friday, April 8th.
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, sponsored H. Res. 658 , condemning in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks in Brussels on March 22, 2016, which murdered more than 30 innocent people, and severely wounded many more. The House passed the resolution unanimously. “ISIS is responsible for at least 75 attacks in 20 countries, killing over 1,280 people. Thousands more have been slaughtered by this terror army inside the borders of Iraq and Syria. This indiscriminate and barbaric killing will come to our shores once again if we do not go on the offense to defeat our enemy, radical Islamic terrorists. Today the House of Representatives sends a message to our friends in Belgium that we stand with them in the face of this unspeakable evil as they care for the wounded, mourn the dead and bring these killers to justice. We also send a message to the terrorists—the United States will not stand by and watch this become the new normal. Together with our allies we will defeat and destroy you.”
03.22.2016	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 18, 2016, CONTACT: Shaylyn.Hynes, (202) 225-6565 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on Brussels terrorist attacks. “Days after Belgian law enforcement captured alive ISIS terrorist Salah Abdeslam, one of the suspected ringleaders of the deadly Paris attacks, terrorists retaliated in Brussels by launching a series of explosions at the airport and train station. 34 civilians are dead and 170 are injured. Today’s bombings illustrate that ISIS still maintains operational networks in Europe capable of carrying out attacks in the capital of the European Union even as security services are on high alert. It is clear that our current strategy against ISIS – which has allowed the terrorist organization to retain a haven from which to plan and launch attacks for nearly two years – is a complete failure and needs to be reassessed. Empty words claiming progress and success against ISIS are meaningless in the face of today’s carnage in Brussels. This latest attack is the new normal in Europe and it will come to our soil if our leaders continue to refuse to define the enemy, Radical Islam. Jihadists have promised to bring terror to the United States and they will deliver on that promise if we do not use our full resources to destroy them. Until we dislodge the terrorists from their havens and neutralize their capabilities to strike in our cities, the citizens of the world will remain in grave danger."
03.18.2016	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 18, 2016, CONTACT: Shaylyn.Hynes, (202) 225-6565 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the capture of Salah Abdeslam. “Today Belgian law enforcement captured alive ISIS terrorist Salah Abdeslam, one of the suspected ringleaders of the deadly Paris attacks. Over the coming days authorities will interrogate this radical Islamic jihadist and I hope they will find answers to the many questions that still remain about that night and about any plans for more attacks in the future. May justice be swift and harsh on if he is found to be responsible for the loss of so many innocent lives that November night.” ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Houston area Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02), Pete Olson (TX-22), Gene Green (TX-29) and Kevin Brady (TX-8) wrote a letter in support of United Airlines’ recent application for Saturday service between Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport and Havana’s Jose’ Martí International Airport. “Now that the United States has started moving towards normalizing relations with Cuba, it’s time to open up travel,” said Congressman Poe. “Houston, America’s fourth largest city, is one of United Airlines’ most central locations with a large Cuban population. This makes it a natural gateway for travel between Cuba and the United States not only from Texas but other locations throughout the nation. I urge the Administration to quickly grant this application and open up the skies between Havana and Houston.” “Houston is home to one of our nation’s largest international hubs, which would serve as a critical link between Cuba and several business markets throughout the United States and Central America,” said Congressman Green. “We support opening the airways from Houston to Havana, which will greatly benefit our businesses and consumers alike.” “History has shown us that exposure to free markets and free people can help change the direction of governments,” Rep. Pete Olson said. “As relations between the US and Cuba continue to open up, we have an opportunity to show Cuba the benefits of a free and open democracy. I was pleased to support United’s request to operate new routes between Houston and Cuba.” “We thank Representatives Ted Poe, Kevin Brady, Gene Green, and Pete Olson for supporting United’s proposal to serve Cuba from Houston. Customers from Houston’s large Cuban-American community as well as customers from throughout Texas and across the central and western U.S. will greatly benefit with approved service,” said Steve Morrissey, United’s vice president of regulatory and policy affairs. “With a route network that offers the greatest number of flights in many of the largest U.S. cities, United is ideally positioned to maximize customer choice and access.” Read the letter
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act of 2016. The legislation passed out the Judiciary Committee and will be heading to the House floor. Included in the bill is an amendment offered by Congressman Poe that would give governors the right to refuse unvetted refugees or those whom the federal government failed to notify the states about. From 2010-2015, Texas accepted 41,647 refugees, which is significantly more than any other state in the union accepted during the same time period. The Poe Amendment mirrors H.R. 4197, the State Refugee Security Act that Congressman Poe and Senator Ted Cruz introduced in December with Texas Governor Abbott’s support. It would require that the Office of Refugee Resettlement give states 21 days notice of the placement of refugees and also provide certification that the refugees do not present a security threat to the state. If those requirements are not met, the governor of the individual state can refuse settlement of that group of refugees. “Congress must take immediate action to support those 31 states that have refused to participate in the refugee resettlement program because of serious security concerns,” said Poe. “The reality is that ISIS has vowed to attack America, and we already know that at least one of the Paris attackers came to Europe disguised as a Syrian refugee. It is dangerous and irresponsible to let thousands of refugees in when FBI Director Comey admitted we cannot properly vet them. Until the federal government can conduct thorough security screenings and confirm that there are no security risks, Congress should empower states to be able to protect their citizens by refusing to participate in this program.” ###
03.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, along with 52 other members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry regarding the Administration’s recent unilateral decision to give $1.7 billion to Iran, a designated State Sponsor of Terrorism. The payment was sent to Iran the day after “implementation day” of the Iran nuclear deal. The letter reads: “In presenting the nuclear deal to Congress, you testified to the House Foreign Affairs Committee that “we will continue to push back against Iran on every front available” for its support for terrorism and other destabilizing activities. It is difficult to see how paying Iran $1.7 billion to settle a dispute caused by Iran’s belligerence upholds that testimony. “ Chairman Poe: “The Administration’s payment of $1.7 billion to Iran to allegedly settle a disputed claim on the same day that Tehran released five innocent American sailors is deeply concerning to say the least. This action will only further incentivize Iran’s dangerous behavior and encourage radicals in Tehran and elsewhere to take more Americans hostage. Instead of urging Iran to pay the victims of its murderous terrorist attacks, this Administration simply handed over American taxpayer dollars to the world’s number one state sponsor of terrorism for a dubious claim. Negotiating with Iran as if it were a well-intentioned actor behind closed doors and without even briefing Members of Congress is simply dangerous and irresponsible.” Chairman Ros-Lehtinen: "When the administration announced a settlement to a 35 year-old Iranian claim the same day the regime released five Americans, it raised more questions than answers regarding the nature of the settlement as well as the validity of the claim. In every step of the nuclear negotiations process, and in the implementation phase of the JCPOA, the administration has been less than transparent with – and in most cases, has purposefully misled or obstructed – Congress and the public. The American people deserve to know what the impetus was for agreeing to a settlement of $1.7 billion with Iran after the administration released over $100 billion in sanctions relief and why President Obama felt it justified to pay this murderous regime more money rather than satisfying the claims U.S. citizens have against Iran for its support for terror. That’s why Ted and I have led this letter to the administration: to get the answers that we all deserve and to have the administration explain why it continues to support Iran and the regime’s demands over the interests of the U.S. and the American people.” Read the Full Letter Here
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on a the murder of an American Citizen in Tel Aviv. “Today an American citizen was stabbed to death by a Palestinian terrorist armed with a knife on a boardwalk in Tel Aviv. This horrific attack is unfortunately just one more in an unyielding wave of Palestinian terror attacks throughout Israel in recent months. Since October, Palestinians stabbings, shootings, and car attacks have claimed the lives of 28 Israelis and two Americans. The Palestinian Authority must take responsibility for inculcating hatred and violence among Palestinians and put an end to the incitement that has cost so many innocents their lives. Without doing so, any path to peace between Israelis and Palestinians will only lead towards a dead end.” Congressman Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism.
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON—Today, Congressmen Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), and Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced the Displaced Jewish Refugees from Arab Countries and Iran Act, requiring the President to report to Congress on federal actions to ensure that any future Arab-Israeli peace accord will also address the issue of Jewish and other refugees displaced from Arab countries and Iran. The Members issued the following joint statement: “In 1948, all Arab countries opposed the creation of the State of Israel, taking up arms against the newly established nation. This war dramatically changed the status of Jews and Jewish communities, which had existed in the Middle East, North Africa and the Gulf region for more than 2,500 years. The Arab governments subjected hundreds of thousands of Jews to displacement, political marginalization, or property confiscation with no compensation. Given the United States’ central role in promoting a just Middle East peace, we must ensure that refugees of Arab countries and Iran are given equal attention. The Displaced Jewish Refugees from Arab Countries and Iran Act ensures that the interests of all refugees displaced as a result of the Arab-Israeli conflict are fairly considered in any final settlement of Arab-Israeli peace.” This bill builds on H.Res.185, which passed unanimously in 2008, by requiring an annual report to Congress explaining what steps the Executive Branch has taken to address the issue of displaced Jewish refugees, detailing any assistance the United States has provided in this effort, and offering recommendations as to what more can be done to ensure that the interests of all refugees are considered as part of any comprehensive and credible Arab-Israeli peace agreement.
02.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), and Jim Costa (D-CA) along with Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT), announced the introduction of the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016. This bipartisan bill builds on the 2004 Justice for All Act to improve the criminal justice system and ensure public confidence in it. The Justice for all Reauthorization Act of 2016 strengthens crime victims’ rights and programs, by increasing access to restitution to federal crime victims, and reauthorizes programs used to notify crime victims that they have the right to be heard in court, with legal assistance. The Act further reduces the rape kit backlog and provides resources for forensic labs, while protecting the innocent by improving access to post-conviction DNA testing. “The 2004 Justice for All Act took a big step forward in increasing resources devoted to DNA and other forensic technology,” said Rep. Ted Poe. “As a former prosecutor and judge and co-chair of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, I have had personal experience working with victims of crime whose lives and families' lives have been torn apart. Reauthorizing JFA strengthens protections for victims, provides resources to law enforcement and crime labs, and protects the innocent.” “From providing vital resources for forensic testing to reducing the rape kit backlog and improving the safety of our prisons, this bipartisan legislation supports victims of crime, law enforcement, and the courts,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Furthermore, as co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, ensuring that victims of crime have access to the assistance they need is among one of my top priorities, and that is why I strongly support provisions in the bill that would support victim services like national domestic violence hotlines and child advocacy services. “ “The Justice for All Act has increased law enforcement resources, protected the innocent from wrongful convictions, and helped deliver justice for victims across the country” said Sen. John Cornyn. “Reauthorizing this important piece of legislation will continue to provide victims with the support necessary to restore their lives, and continue to give law enforcement the tools to put more criminals behind bars.” “As a former prosecutor, I have great faith in our criminal justice system and in the men and women who have dedicated their lives to making it work,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy. “But we also know that our justice system is imperfect. Innocent people, like my friend Kirk Bloodsworth, are sometimes convicted, and even sentenced to death. Dozens of exonerations made possible by the Justice for All Act are testament enough to its value. It is past time for Congress to reauthorize this vital law to ensure that law enforcement and crime victims have the resources they need and that our justice system serves us all.” Justice for All works to improve the administration of criminal justice programs, by increasing accountability for federal funds, requiring the Justice Department to assist state and local governments to improve their indigent defense systems. Additionally, it ensures the implementation of the Prison Rape Elimination Act. The House bill is a companion measure to Sens. John Cornyn (R-TX) and Patrick Leahy’s (D-VT) legislation. Representatives Poe and Costa are founding members and co-chairmen of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC). Senator Cornyn and Leahy are members of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on President Obama's plan to close Guantanamo Bay. "President Obama's decision to fulfill an 8 year old campaign promise on his way out the door by unilaterally closing Guantanamo Bay is not only dangerous, it is also illegal. The law -whether he likes it or not- says that any plans to close this facility must go through Congress. The President must provide Congress and the American People details for his unlawful terrorist jail break. I have personally visited Guantanamo Bay, and there is no better place to keep foreign enemy combatants who have been captured on the battlefield. According to a Director of National Intelligence Report, 116 combatants that have been released have gone back to fight on the battlefield. There is no logical reason that is in the national security of the United States to transfer these terrorists and it is certainly not in the interest of our citizens to place them in in the continental United States."
02.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on a California federal judge’s decision to mandate that Apple create new technology to give the FBI backdoor access to I-phones. “In the aftermath of the worst attack on U.S. soil since 9/11, the law enforcement community is tasked with preventing more attacks on the homeland. As challenging as their jobs are, drastic, fear-driven policy that dramatically effects the privacy of every single American should not be made in the courts. Before we mandate that the government must have a “key” for all encrypted data-- we must step back and consider what it means to set aside the Constitution. It is the role of Congress to debate this and to change the policy, not the courts. Congress has recently taken steps to protect the Fourth Amendment rights of Americans in the digital age; this decision does the opposite. This order in effect would give the government the keys to the backdoor to every cell phone in America. In order to do this, the government is attempting to force Apple and other companies to re-engineer all of their products in order to give the government the ability to access all phones. This decision will not only violate the privacy of American citizens- far more than just the owner of the I-phone the court ruled on-- it will also hurt American tech companies. American products will suffer on the world market because international consumers will know that their phones are not safe from the eyes of the snooping United States government. My bill, H.R. 2233, End Warrantless Surveillance of ‎Americans Act would specifically prohibit the Government from either mandating (as they are trying to do with Apple) or even requesting that a back door be installed. Congress should immediately act on this to make the law clear. The role of the court is to interpret the law, not create them.”
02.19.2016	Washington, D.C. — Earlier this week President Obama and his administration missed a deadline to present a plan to defeat ISIS and Islamic extremists, set forth by the United States Congress. Under the bi-partisan 2016 National Defense Authorization Act, the President is required to send Congress a real, comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS. The President’s deadline was February 15th. In the past few months, Congress has taken substantial action to protect American citizens from radicals and extremists. The House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation strengthening the visa waiver program, pausing the influx of Syrian refugees into the U.S. and boosting the defense budget to support our military. Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency Lt. Gen. Vincent Stewart stated that ISIS ““will probably attempt to conduct additional attacks in Europe, and attempt to direct attacks on the U.S. homeland in 2016.” Congressman Poe issued the following statement on the plans missed deadline. Congressman Poe: “This is no surprise. This is the same President who seems to think that we are in High School, calling ISIS the “JV team.” He refuses to believe that Radical Islamic Terrorists are out for American blood. The President’s current strategy of containment is not working. Confronting terrorism and emphasizing the safety and security of the United States is of uttermost importance. President Obama is the Commander in Chief of the military. It is his responsibility to chart a sustainable course for the defeat of ISIS, not the containment. The Obama administration has no intention of fulfilling their duty to the American people. “
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, along with Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State John Kerry opposing the financing of F-16s to Pakistan with U.S. taxpayer dollars. “Pakistan has not shown that it is a reliable partner to the United States and has actively undermined our national interests in the region. Until Pakistan is able to demonstrate meaningful changes in its actions, it is inappropriate to finance the sale with U.S. taxpayer funding,” said Reps. Poe and Gabbard.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Trade, introduced H.R. 4503, the Fair Treatment of Israel in Product Labeling Act of 2016. Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) authored the companion bill in the Senate. This legislation would rescind the Obama Administration’s recent policy directive based on an old 1995 rule requiring the special labeling of Israeli goods produced in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. “This Administration’s senseless practice of undermining Israel both geopolitically and now economically has driven yet another wedge in our bilateral relations. Congress has the obligation to make this right. Isolating Israel from global trade should not be the official policy of the United States. Despite the actions of this White House the United States will always stand with our strongest ally in the Middle East.” Background: On January 23rd, the U.S. Customs & Border Protection Agency issued guidance indicating that “it is not acceptable to mark” goods produced in the West Bank or Gaza Strip as originating from Israel.
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement responding to President Obama’s plan to implement a $10 tax on every barrel of oil to help fund his budget proposals. “President Obama’s plan to slap a $10 tax on every barrel of oil to fund his bloated budget would not only be damaging to energy production, it would also be felt in the wallets of American families. Unlike Washington bureaucrats, many families across this nation actually have to budget their spending. They cannot afford to pay for yet another tax just to fill up their vehicles. The President’s arrogant efforts to drive people away from using oil to fuel their cars and heat their homes by making it more expensive for them to do so is an abuse of power. Most American families can’t afford expensive electric cars or solar paneled homes. These families live paycheck to paycheck and should not be stuck with footing the bill for President Obama’s climate change agenda and even more reckless government spending. Raising the cost of fuel has the effect of raising the cost of all goods and services that rely on transportation, including food. This proposal is essentially a new tax on the entire American economy. It’s unnecessary. It’s impractical. And, it’s going nowhere in Congress.”
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), issued the following statement after House passage of H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protect Act. This legislation would ensure that the federal government can no longer target certain businesses and block them from gaining access to depository institutions without explanation. It requires that federal banking agencies provide written justification for any request to terminate a customer account to ensure all companies have equal access to the resources they seek. “We’ve seen time and time again that this Administration has targeted entities for political reasons. Its abusive initiative, Operation Choke Point, is another example where the federal government targeted small businesses in certain fields, such as the gun industry, and denied them access to resources based on their politics. Many of these businesses rely on this access for survival. Shutting off their resources for the sake of implementing a political agenda violates the free market values this economy has been built on since our founding. This is America, not communist China. The government has no business picking winners and losers, and it certainly has no right to intimidate and target businesses based on politics." ###
02.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC. – This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) voted on legislation to end the 40-year old ban on crude oil exports, permanently allow Texans to deduct their state and local sales taxes, increase defense spending to combat ISIS and radical Islamic terror and provide care for our veterans and 9/11 first responders. The legislation also guts many of the Administration’s unconstitutional actions and political priorities (detailed list below). “Ending the ban on crude oil exports is a huge win for Texas and Houston, the energy capital of the world,” said Poe. “The impact cannot be understated: it will change the global dynamic of our world’s energy. Here at home, it will create thousands of jobs, bring in billions in new tax revenue, and boost our nation’s energy security. Around the world, it helps to end the economic stranglehold that Russia and the Middle East have on our allies. Now the United States can compete on the world market with OPEC.” In addition, the legislation makes the deduction for sales tax in Texas permanent. The tax code currently favors states that have a state income tax, but that now changes. “Making the sales tax deduction permanent means more money in every taxpaying Texan’s wallet,” said Poe. These two provisions were included in separate amendments that will pass the Senate and be signed into law. Overall, the legislation includes a number of conservative victories and will help grow the Texas economy. Previously, the House acted to defund Planned Parenthood and halt the President’s refugee resettlement program. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has committed in writing to take up the refugee resettlement issue in early January, and I have joined Senator Ted Cruz to empower State Governors to refuse refugees until they are thoroughly vetted. A large appropriations package was necessary because the Senate failed to take up a single appropriations bill that passed the House. Provisions in the Amendment to the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act Funds Texas-Made F-35s; Increases Defense and National Security Funding to Fight ISIS and Radical Islamic Jihad Provides funding that allows 68 of our Texas-manufactured F-35s to help defeat ISIS; includes a 1.3% pay raise for our military; prohibits the transfer or release of any individuals detained at Gitmo; prohibits the use of sensitive missile defense data to be shared with Russia; provides funds needed for shipbuilding to complete the Navy’s fleet; and includes Rep. Poe’s legislation to require the president to submit a plan on how to defeat ISIS. Strengthens Visa Waiver Program to Protect us From Terrorists; Targets Sanctuary Cities; and Increases Border Security Funding Strengthens visa waiver program to protect us from terrorists; increases funds for the FBI to combat terrorism; prohibits any future “Fast and Furious” operations by preventing the federal government from distributing weapons to drug cartels; strengthens a federal program (SCAAP) to help state and localities with the costs of incarcerating illegal alien criminals; directs ICE to detain illegal immigrants until they can be deported; funds our Border Patrol agents as well as border security and air operations, ensuring round-the-clock surveillance of air, land, and sea approaches to the border and maintaining no less than 95,000 operational flight hours for law enforcement and surveillance; withholds funds from DHS until ICE informs Congress of its efforts to combat sanctuary cities; and funds efforts to combat human trafficking. Protects the 2nd Amendment: Prohibits implementation of the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty, includes authority to import firearms into the U.S. and to export firearms to Canada without a license, and excludes so-called gun-control measures. Stops Insurance Company Bailout; Funds Cancer Research and Provides Care for 9/11 Responders: Stops the Obamacare insurance company bailout by eliminating the “risk-corridors” program; defunds the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB, the so-called “death panels”); increases funding for the National Institutes of Health, the world’s largest funder of medical research; and reauthorizes a program to provide health care benefits to our nation’s first responders, some of whom are from Texas, who suffered injuries or illnesses attributed to the 9/11 attacks. Safeguards Pro-Life Measures: Prohibits taxpayer dollars from being spent on abortions and abortion services; protects conscience rights in healthcare coverage by prohibiting Obamacare’s mandate to cover abortion; and includes a ban on creating embryos for research purposes. Increases Oversight over VA: Expands oversight of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department’s Office of Inspector General; increases funding to end the VA’s disability compensation claims backlog; and increases funds for VA medical services in order to make sure they get the care that our nation promised and that they need. Adds Flexibility and Addresses Abuse in Federal Benefits: Provides schools with more flexibility in the school lunch program with exemptions from certain strict requirements; seeks to ensure that WIC and SNAP benefits are only made available to eligible participants; and requires USDA to work with states to ensure compliance with federal benefit eligibility. Cuts EPA Funding and Restores NASA Funding: Cuts funding for the EPA to its lowest level since 2008; restores funding for NASA to its highest level in years; blocks any new EPA regulation of non-navigable waters; allows the sale of incandescent light bulbs, which was prohibited in 2008; and increases oversight of climate-change research. Provisions in the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act Makes permanent the deduction of state and local sales taxes Makes permanent the deduction for teachers who pay out-of-pocket for school supplies Suspends the medical device tax that was included in Obamacare Prohibits the IRS from targeting nonprofit organizations for political purposes Excludes mortgage debt that has been forgiven and would otherwise count as taxable income Extends deduction of mortgage insurance premium for a personal residence Renews deduction for higher-education expenses Allows a tax credit of as much as $2,500 per year for qualified tuition and related expenses (The American Opportunity Tax Credit) Reduces individual tax liability by $1,000 per qualifying child under age 17 (The Child Tax Credit) Increases monthly tax exclusion for employer-provided transit benefits Makes permanent the research tax credit for a broad range of industries Makes permanent 5 charity-related tax provisions that would have expired on December 31, 2014 Enhances deduction for businesses to donate food inventory to charities Expands deduction for charitable contributions of real property made for conservation purposes Excludes military housing allowances from an individual’s gross income Renews bonus depreciation for businesses
01.15.2016	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 14, 2016 CONTACT: Shaylyn.Hynes, (202) 225-6565 Washington, D.C. — This week, the House Judiciary Committee announced the creation of a Task Force on Executive Overreach to examine the historical breakdown of the separation of powers and checks and balances. In recent years, unconstitutional Executive Overreach has led to an unparalleled increase in presidential power. The task force’s primary initiative will be to study the impact that increased presidential and executive power has the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that further unchecked executive power and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. The task force will evaluate the tools at Congress’s disposal to ensure a full restoration of the proper balance of power and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations, acknowledging deficiencies and suggesting legislative solutions. Congressman Poe issued the following statement on the creation of and his appointment to the task force. Congressman Poe: “This Administration treats the Constitution as a mere suggestion, not the law of the land. Congress shall make all laws; the Judiciary interprets these laws, and the President enforces the laws of the land. Our country’s framers purposely set these rules in place over 200 years ago. After being suppressed by an all-powerful king, they knew first hand that the concentration of power in one individual’s hands is a threat to liberty. Executive orders have allowed Presidents from both parties to legislate from the Oval Office. This threatens the ability of the legislative branch to ‘check’ the White House. This idea of checks and balances is the foundation that our country was built upon. The House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Executive Overreach will study this unsettling trend and look for solutions to prevent the executive branch from transcending its constitutional authority. The separation of powers and its checks and balances are designed to protect individual liberties and ensure prosperity for future generations to come.” ### IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 14, 2016 CONTACT: Shaylyn.Hynes, (202) 225-6565
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on House passage of H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. “You know there is something nutty when Iran’s greatest benefactor is the United States. This Administration made a historically bad “deal” with Iran. The only nation benefitting from this dangerous agreement is Iran. Thanks to this deal, the world’s largest State sponsor of terrorism is only a few small steps away from a nuclear bomb. After signing it, Iran defiantly violated two UN resolutions restricting ballistic missiles. In response, the Treasury Department assured Congress that it would implement new sanctions, but at the last minute, the State Department cancelled those sanctions. Iran was off the hook. Iran acts without consequences. This legislation increases Congressional oversight of this process, ensuring that Administration does not lift sanctions on institutions and individuals who are involved in terrorism without first consulting Congress. The President must certify to Congress that the person or entity in question has not given financial or material support to a terrorist organization before they are removed from the sanctions list. America should not make it easier for Iran’s terrorist proxies to get even more money than the $150 billion that is in this bad deal.”
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Houston area Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on the arrest of Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan. Al Hardan came to the United States as a refugee from Iraq and has been living in Houston while allegedly providing support to ISIS. “Terror has come to Houston. Thankfully law enforcement caught Al Hardan before it was too late. We may not always be that lucky. This case proves that the FBI director was right---we cannot properly vet refugees. The Administration claims that the 31 state governors, including Governor Abbott, who want to turn away refugees because of security concerns have no right to refuse them. The Administration has no right to force the states to accept refugees who may pose a danger to their citizens. That is why Senator Cruz and I have introduced the State Refugee Security Act of 2015 (HR 4197). Our legislation gives state governors the rights to properly protect their citizens when the federal government is failing to do so. Congress must take immediate action and should immediately take up our legislation to support those 31 states that have refused to participate in the refugee resettlement program because of serious security concerns. The federal government should not put the safety and security of foreign nationals above the safety of our own citizens.”
01.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade issued the following statement on North Korea’s alleged testing of an H-bomb. “North Korea’s nuclear test yesterday is the latest evidence that this Administration’s policy of appeasing our enemies has dangerous consequences, but it does not come as a surprise. As Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, I held a hearing in October anticipating this very event. North Korea already has nuclear weapons and also has ballistic missiles that can reach the United States. The dictator Kim Jong-Un’s own hit list includes Austin, TX. This test also has serious implications for the Iran deal- North Korea has a long history of working with Iran on missile development and there is mounting evidence of cooperation on nuclear weapons. This Administration should immediately put North Korea back on the state sponsor of terrorism list, issue comprehensive sanctions on North Korean government officials, including its dictator, and encourage the United Nations to do the same. Dangerous actions by a ruthless dictator must be met with forceful responses.”
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. The bill passed the Senate on December 3, 2015 and will now head to the President’s desk. “Today the House took a historic vote, sending a bill to the President’s desk for the first time that would finally dismantle the Affordable Care Act. The passage of this reconciliation legislation signifies that the will of both Congress and the people we represent is to repeal this destructive law. It is time that the President listens. Americans are frustrated by the damaging consequences this law has had on their families and businesses. They were promised more coverage; they have less. They were promised their premiums would not go up; they did. It is time for a new way. Obamacare is hurting, not helping, people all over this nation. Not only does this bill dismantle Obamacare, it also defunds Planned Parenthood, an abortion provider that has allegedly participated in the business of harvesting the organs of unborn children. This organization should not receive a dime of federal funding until these allegations are fully investigated, and those who have allegedly participated in this practice are prosecuted as the criminals they are.”
01.06.2016	"This week’s deadly terrorist attack on the Pathankot air base is a reminder that our ally India faces the same threat of radical Islamic terrorism. Unfortunately, India’s neighbor Pakistan has provided safe haven to terrorists for years from shielding Osama bin Laden to backing covert terrorist operations around the world. It is being reported that members of the Pakistani military may have provided training and assistance to the jihadists who attacked India this week. If this is true, the United States must immediately reevaluate aid to Pakistan which I have long called for. We should not send money to nations who provide assistance to terrorists. We stand with our friend India during this time and urge all nations in the region, including Pakistan, to join together to bring the attackers to justice.”
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) announced that he has joined a bipartisan group of 10 Members of Congress to launch the Cuba Working Group, a group that will focus on crafting new policies and ways to appropriately restore U.S.-Cuba diplomatic relations. The group announced its formation in a letter sent to Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. Its launch comes one year after President Obama announced that he would unilaterally try to normalize U.S. relations with Cuba. “Fifty years after America placed its isolating embargo on Cuba, we know that this policy failed to accomplish its goals,” said Poe. “It’s time for Congress to step up and it’s my hope that the Cuba Working Group can help pave the path forward for relations between our two nations, including pushing for advancements on human rights, economic development and political reforms. New opportunities exist in our own backyard that we should leverage. For example, restricting our agricultural trade has punished Texas and Texas farmers while Cuba has continued to trade with other countries around the world.” Congressman Poe has championed opening up agricultural trade with Cuba. In October, he worked with Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR) and the Committee on Agriculture Chairman Michael Conaway (R-TX) to introduce H.R. 3687, the Cuba Agricultural Exports Act, legislation that would repeal restrictions on exporting agricultural goods and allow producers access to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s marketing programs. The Cuba Working Group’s steering committee members are: Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Ted Poe (R-TX), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Rosa Delauro (D-CT).
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 3654, the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015, authored by Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2), Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee. This bipartisan legislation requires the President to produce an Administration-wide strategy to combat terrorists online. “Today, terrorists use social media to recruit, fundraise, spread propaganda and teach future fighters,” said Congressman Poe. “Online we’ve seen recipes for bombs, instruction manuals for attacks, a Q&A forum for terrorists and even a livestream of an attack. Potential terrorists don’t have to go to Syria or Iraq to train anymore. All they have to do is log-on. My legislation, H.R. 3654, the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015, will help change this by requiring the President come up with a comprehensive strategy to combat terrorists online – something that the Administration promised in 2011. Unfortunately, today there is no strategy and consequently, we’ve seen individual agencies making unilateral decisions and not coordinating with one another. For example, DHS unilaterally decided not to look at visa applicants’ social media postings; the FBI does not know how far it should push private social media companies to prohibit them from allowing terrorist content on their sites; the State Department does not know how to effectively counter terrorist messaging because it does not have the expertise of the intelligence community; and the intelligence community approaches social media as a capture everything because it has not been made clear what it should look for. We must first have a strategy before we can effectively defeat this enemy on every battlefield, including the cyber battlefield. H.R. 3654 requires just that.”
12.09.2015	Terrorist use of social media has exploded over the past several years. It is time the U.S. government catches up. A recent study by the Brookings Institute found that ISIS now has over 40,000 Twitter accounts. This is not just a fight that stays online: in addition to fundraising, terrorist groups from ISIS to the Taliban use social media platforms to spread propaganda, radicalize, and ultimately recruit fighters. There are now between 27,000 and 31,000 foreign fighters from 86 countries. That is more than double the number from last year. The FBI says instead of a potential terrorist having to go to Syria or Iraq to train, all they have to do is log on. Nationwide the FBI is currently investigating 900 potential lone wolf terrorists in the U.S. with the web and social media serving as a playbook to carry out attacks.In October, ISIS issued a new instruction manual on how terrorists can use social media.Al-Qaeda affiliate al-Shabaab live tweeted its attack on a Kenyan mall that killed 72 people. The recipes for the bombs used in the Boston marathon attacks were published in al-Qaeda’s Inspire magazine on social media before the attack. The al-Qaeda branch in Yemen known as AQAP held a press conference on Twitter, allowing users to submit questions that were answered by the terror group and posted back on Twitter the following week.This does not have to be a losing battle. Since it redoubled its efforts to proactively identify and remove terrorist content, Facebook has seen a marked drop off in terrorist use of its platform. Unfortunately, not all social media companies have taken such an intentional approach.The federal government does not even have a strategy to counter this problem. In 2011, the White House acknowledged terrorists’ use of social media to spread hate and promised a strategy to prevent online radicalization. More than three years later, we are still waiting.H.R. 3654, the Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015, requires the President to fulfill his promise and produce a strategy to combat terrorist use of social media. It also requires the President to come up with a policy to enhance the exchange of information and dialogue between the federal government and social media companies.In the 21st century we have to recognize the importance of all the battlefields against terrorists. It is ironic that terrorists, who are barbaric and antiquated, are dominating us when it comes to a technology that didn’t even exist a little more than 10 years ago.It is time for that to change.
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, introduced H.R. 4197, the State Refugee Security Act of 2015, the companion bill to Senator Ted Cruz’s legislation (S. 2363). This joint Senate-House effort follows Poe’s work on H.R. 4032, introduced on November 17, which would protect states’ rights to refuse to participate in the federal refugee resettlement program. “Congress must take immediate action to support those 31 states that have refused to participate in the refugee resettlement program because of serious security concerns,” said Poe. “The reality is that ISIS has vowed to attack America, and we already know that at least one of the Paris attackers came to Europe disguised as a Syrian refugee. It is dangerous and irresponsible to let thousands of refugees in when FBI Director Comey admitted we cannot properly vet them. Until the federal government can conduct thorough security screenings and confirm that there are no security risks, Congress should empower states to be able to protect their citizens by refusing to participate in this program.” Under H.R. 4197 and S. 2363, the federal government is required to notify a state at least 21 days prior to resettling a refugee there. During that period, if a state governor certifies that the federal government has not provided adequate assurances that the refugee does not present a security risk, the federal government is prohibited from resettling that refugee in the state. "I applaud Rep. Poe for introducing a companion bill in the House to the legislation I introduced yesterday, which will protect the authority of the states and authority of the governors to keep their citizens safe,” Sen. Cruz said. “Rep. Poe shares my concern that ISIS and radical Islamic terrorists have declared war on America, even if President Obama refuses to admit it, Sen. Cruz said. “As elected officials tasked with upholding the Constitution, it is imperative that we do everything we can to ensure the safety of America and its citizens." H.R. 4197 has 30 original cosponsors, including: Rep. Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Rep. Trey Gowdy (SC-4), Rep. Robert Pittenger (NC-9), Rep. Doug Collins (GA-9), Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Rep. Matt Salmon (AZ-5), Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10), Rod Blum (IA-1), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Jeff Duncan (SC-3), Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32), Rep. Ryan Zinke (MT-00), Rep. Joe Barton (TX-6), Rep. Mike Rogers (AL-3), Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Rep. Jim Bridenstine (OK-1), Rep. Ralph Abraham (LA-5), Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26), Rep. Steve King (IA-4), Rep. Randy Weber (TX-14), Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Rep. Walter Jones (NC-3), Rep. John Culberson (TX-7), Rep. Andy Harris (MD-1), Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11), Rep. Gary Palmer (AL-6), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Bill Posey (FL-8), and Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17). ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON — Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade, issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act. “ISIS fighters hold passports from different countries around the world,” said Chairman Poe. “We know they are embedded in western countries, able to travel freely and are hard to track. And, they want to do us harm. Under the current visa waiver program, individuals from 38 countries are exempt from the standard vetting process to get a visa. Hold a passport from one of these 38 countries? You can just hop on a plane and come here. Those 38 countries are also supposed to share their watch lists with us. Unfortunately, for some nations, that’s not happening. This means that some on watch lists overseas are able to hop on a plane for the U.S. without us knowing. This bill changes that. Those 38 countries are required to share their watch lists with us. If they don’t, they’re prohibited from the program. Their citizens who have recently travelled to Iraq and Syria are also required to go through additional screening. These fighters have their eyes on America. We must do all we can to stop them from coming here. The status quo will not keep us safe.” ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) released the following statement following the House passage of the bipartisan Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act (HR 3766). HR 3766 passed the House unanimously. This bipartisan bill would increase public oversight over foreign aid by requiring federal agencies to show both where taxpayer money is spent around the world and how effective that aid is. Since the passage of the Foreign Aid Act in 1961, foreign aid programs have grown and spread across 12 federal departments, 22 agencies, and almost 60 offices – many of which have no monitoring and evaluation procedures in place. In 2011, the Administration launched “The Foreign Aid Dashboard,” a public, online resource that allows users to examine foreign aid in an accessible and easy-to-understand format. Nevertheless, by its own admission, the site is incomplete, with information posted from only 10 of the 22 federal agencies that administer aid. Without a statutory requirement to maintain the data, any Administration can just as easily take down the website or continue to post incomplete information. The “Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act” addresses both of these problems. First, it would require the President to establish guidelines on measurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for all foreign aid programs. Second, it would increase aid transparency by codifying what is currently being done through the Foreign Assistance Dashboard and increasing the amount of information required to be posted online, including actual expenditures and evaluations. “It is time to modernize and reform the outdated foreign aid program”, said Rep. Poe. “Under the current system, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to a majority of the countries in the world, and no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Implementing a system to evaluate the success (or failure) of each program will increase both learning and accountability, making the program stronger. It is also important for Americans to know exactly where their money is sent. The House has now acted in a bipartisan fashion to improve our foreign aid program. It is time for the Senate to do the same and send this common sense bill to the President’s desk.” "Foreign assistance is a critical and necessary tool for protecting and proliferating democratic values,” said Rep. Connolly. “We need to expand, not disinvest, in our global leadership. This bill will bring needed transparency to an often misunderstood part of the federal budget, which will in turn allow us to continue to grow our investment in stability and prosperity abroad.”
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee introduced H.R.4032 The States’ Right of Refugee Refusal Act. This bill will amend the Immigration and Nationality Act to ensure that States have the right to refuse to participate in the Refugee Resettlement program if their Governor chooses to opt out. Right now, the Refugee Resettlement Act only permits consultation with the States, but it does not give the States the right to refuse. “In the aftermath of the Paris terrorist attacks over half of State governors including Governor Abbott of Texas have told the Administration that they will not accept Syrian refugees. One of the Paris attackers was disguised as a Syrian refugee, so governors are concerned about bringing thousands of Syrians into their states. Current federal law does not clearly give governors the absolute right to refuse. This matter will end up being fought in long court battles if Congress does not act to clarify the law. ISIS has threatened to attack our homeland. We should believe them. The Director of the FBI even stated that he does not believe we have enough resources to screen the refugees. We should allow state governors to take action to protect their citizens.”
11.16.2015	CHAIRMAN POE RELEASES STRATEGY TO RESPOND TO PARIS ATTACKS: INVOKE NATO ARTICLE 5, CUT OFF PASSPORTS, DEFUND REFUGEE PROGRAM WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, introduced a House Resolution (H.Res525) urging the Administration to work with the NATO member states to invoke Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty in response to the Paris attacks. Article 5 signifies that an attack on one NATO country is an attack on all and requires a joint response from all NATO members. In addition, Chairman Poe renewed his calls for the Senate to pass his bill, the FTO Passport Revocation Act (H.R.237) which passed the House in July. Invoke Article 5 “Friday night’s deadly attack on the City of Lights proves that ISIS aggression has spread from the Middle East to the sleeping West. Just weeks before they blew up a Russian airplane. They have vowed to come to America next. President Obama is wrong—ISIS is not contained. The Paris attacks will be just the beginning if we do not change course. This is our fight, but not our fight alone. America should take the lead and urge a joint response as a body of nations. Invoking Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty paves the way for a truly joint and international response to ISIS. All 28 NATO nations need to join the war against our common enemy. The President’s policy of containment has failed. The time to act is now, not after American blood is shed in our homeland.” Revoke Passports for turned Americans “Friday’s attacks in Paris prove that the President is wrong. ISIS is not contained; they along with other foreign terrorist organizations are spreading their murderous rampage worldwide. The threat to America from these groups has never been greater. But some of our own citizens have travelled to the terrorist hotbeds in Syria and beyond to fight for the other side. These Benedict Arnold traitors who have turned against America and joined the ranks of foreign radical terrorist armies should lose all rights afforded to our citizens. The FTO Passport Revocation Act would authorize the revocation or denial of passports to individuals affiliated with Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs). This will help law enforcement locate these individuals by making it easier to flag the individuals who are trying to travel internationally. Most importantly, this legislation will help prevent turned Americans from coming back to the United States undetected. The House has now acted to locate and contain these traitors. It’s time for the Senate to quickly do the same. These people are not returning to America to open coffee shops; they are coming back to kill. Let’s stop them from coming back at all.” Syrian Refugees “At least one of the Paris attackers came to Europe disguised as a Syrian refugee. Despite this fact, President Obama still wants to let thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States. FBI Director Comey recently testified to Congress that the federal government does not have the background information necessary to effectively conduct proper security checks on Syrian nationals. Congress should immediately take action to support states so that they are not forced to take refugees who may pose a security risk. I support Governor Abbott’s decision to oppose the resettlement of Syrian refugees in Texas due to serious security concerns and the inability to fully vet the refugees. Congress should move to immediately defund the resettlement program. “
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Last week, Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus Co-Chairmen and Co-Founders Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) wrote the following bipartisan letter to the editor responding to the Washington Post editorial titled Congress finds a slush fund in money marked for crime victims. Poe and Costa submitted the letter to the editor defending the Crime Victims’ Fund but Washington Post unfortunately decided not to print it. Dear Editor: In his editorial Congress Finds a Slush Fund in Money Marked for Crime Victims, Charles Lane praises Congress’ shameful decision to raid the Crime Victims Fund in order to offset more government spending. He also goes a step further and questions the size, purpose and need for the Crime Victims Fund. But he fails to mention the obvious: the fund does not contain one cent of taxpayer money. It is completely paid for by criminals. It is not “public resources” or the government’s money to take. This would be like a high school’s PTA raiding the money that the football team raised in their bake sale. Except it is worse. It is the federal government stealing the money from victims of domestic violence, rape and other crimes--when it is not Washington’s money to take. Mr. Lane dismisses the victims’ rights movement as if it was a trend leftover from the 80s. This is not some fad of that decade that died with shoulder pads and spandex. Crime has not gone away. In 2014, 186,000 pleas for help from adult domestic violence victims went unanswered due to lack of resources. How many of those victims are dead today or still live in abusive and dangerous homes because their pleas for help were not met? Imagine the number of victims who are unserved or underserved for every single type of violent crime, many of which are not even calculated in the Department of Justice National Crime Victimization Survey cited by Mr. Lane. Then there are those who never come forward because they fear being turned away. This mission for the fund is not accomplished. The need is constant. And it will always be there. The victims’ rights movement 30 years ago gave birth to federal victim legislation such as the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) which gave victims an opportunity to have their voices heard in court. VOCA created the Crime Victims Fund, which brings comfort and aid to millions of victims every single year. In Congress, we as a Texas Republican and California Democrat teamed up to create the Victims’ Rights Caucus ten years ago and we are proud advocate for those without a voice every day. There is not much Congress can agree on these days, but we are proud to lead a bipartisan caucus committed to making sure the needs of all victims are met. It is very obvious that Mr. Lane is opposed to the policy of having criminals pay restitution for their crimes. So call it like it is. Don’t question the need for the fund. The Crime Victims Fund model is common sense. Criminals should have to pay for the damage they cause and through the Crime Victims Fund, they have. We have advocated for years for more money to be released from the fund because victims need it. We hear every day from survivors and programs throughout the Nation about unmet needs. With this latest budget Congress has instead stolen some of those funds, and that is wrong. Mr. Lane believes that crime victims do not need more resources. He should tell that to the teenage rape victim, who musters up the courage to go to her local rape crisis center but is turned away because they are not able to keep enough counselors on staff. Tell that to the woman who is fleeing from her husband who is threatening to kill her and her children, who cannot stay at the local domestic violence shelter because they do not have enough beds. Tell that to the 12 year old victim of sex trafficking, who is raped by multiple men every day and needs specialized services. As a former Judge and pioneer in the California victims’ rights movement, these are the kinds of people we saw every day. Crime victims are not statistics, they are not numbers on Congress’ ledger, they are people.
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC --Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement following the Administration’s announcement that it will reject the Keystone XL Pipeline: "Today, after years of delay the Administration has finally issued its decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline. They said no. No to energy security, no to economic security, no to jobs. Instead of saying yes and providing much needed relief to the people, the Administration has now inexcusably turned its back on this opportunity for the United States. The President has just rejected a chance to create jobs, bring energy to the United States and make Middle Eastern politics irrelevant to our national security. Energy and jobs are two things that Americans need to survive. The Keystone Pipeline would provide both, free of cost to the American taxpayers. The White House seems to be in the business of making decisions in the interest of other nations, but not our own. China is just the latest in the list of nations who are benefitting from the foolish decisions made by this Administration. Beijing has been waiting for this opportunity. Their government is not so foolish to turn down this golden opportunity that the Obama Administration has now denied the American people.” Congressman Poe is the author of the Keystone For a Secure Tomorrow Act (K-FAST) which would give Congress the authority to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today introduced the Protecting Individuals From Mass Aerial Surveillance Act, which would require the federal government to obtain a warrant to conduct aerial surveillance in the United States. Reps. Ted Poe (TX-02), Donald Beyer (VA-08), Zoe Lofgren (CA-1) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), are original cosponsors of the bipartisan bill. “Even though technological advances have made data gathering and mass surveillance easier and more accessible, it does not change the Fourth Amendment and its extended protections to Americans. This legislation is common sense, if the Federal Government wants to use aerial surveillance, they should have to obtain a warrant,” Poe said. “I was a judge for 22 years in Texas, and officers came to me with search warrants. If they had probable cause, I would sign them — this is what the Constitution requires. Innocent Americans should not be caught in the crosshairs and spied on when the eyes of Washington are in the sky. While technology may change, the Constitution does not. The Federal Government, just like any officer, should have to obtain a warrant.” “Just because technological advances have made it easier for the federal government to collect information doesn’t mean that our privacy rights can or should be violated on the ground or in the air,” DelBene said. “Congress has an obligation to clear the legal fog by passing my bill to require the federal government to obtain a warrant if it wants to conduct aerial surveillance.” The Protecting Individuals From Mass Aerial Surveillance Act would prohibit the government from identifying law-abiding Americans who show up incidentally in surveillance, and it would prohibit unlawfully collected information to be used in court. The bill also includes common-sense exceptions for terrorist threats, border security, surveying public lands and scanning disaster relief areas. “Our law enforcement agencies need modern tools to combat crime and terrorism in the face of emerging technologies but we must take every precaution to preserve civil liberties and privacy rights,” said Beyer. “I am proud to join Rep. DelBene’s common-sense legislation to protect our constituents from privacy incursions.” “The recently reported expanded use of aerial surveillance on U.S. soil raises serious Constitutional and civil liberties issues that Congress needs to address,” Lofgren said. “This legislation includes important guidelines to protect Americans’ privacy in a time of increasing surveillance technologies.” “Unmanned Aerial Systems are revolutionizing entire sectors of the economy – saving time, money, and even human lives. As this technology proliferates, however, so too must our privacy protections,” said Blumenauer. “This bill ensures that Americans can be confident in the fact that there are clear protections from illegal surveillance by UAS carried out by either the government or the private sector.” Earlier this year, news reports revealed that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has been conducting aerial surveillance missions over many U.S. cities. The reports suggested that some of the aircraft were equipped with devices, such as StingRays and high resolution cameras, which can capture massive amounts of data including images, emails, texts, calls and geolocation. After hearing the reports, DelBene led a letter to FBI Director James Comey requesting more information. The House bill is a companion measure to Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Dean Heller’s (R-NV) legislation. ###
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement: “Today the House voted Paul Ryan in as the next Speaker of the House. For years, many Americans have been frustrated with the lack of conservative leadership in Congress. Not only are they frustrated with this brand of faux-conservatism, they are also fed up with the continual pattern of a few elite members calling the shots and excluding the voices of the many. As your advocate in Washington I too have been irritated by this for a long time. Finally, the gavel has been passed. Grassroots conservative efforts fueled by this frustration led to Speaker Boehner’s retirement and ultimately prevented Kevin McCarthy from taking over the position. Those of us who opposed Speaker Boehner opposed McCarthy for the same reason which is why despite initially being viewed as a shoe-in candidate he is not the Speaker today. We did not want more of the same. Back at square one, the conference went through a methodical and democratic process to find and elect the next Speaker. Some showed interest in running but ultimately we were left with two candidates, Paul Ryan & Daniel Webster. The candidate with the most conservative record won—Paul Ryan. Over the past week I have personally participated in discussions (both in a group and one on one) with Paul Ryan where we were able to have frank conversations about the future direction of the House. We may not agree on every issue, but he is the clear choice to push our conservative agenda forward. He is a policy expert who has been the architect of conservative reforms and he is also an open-minded and accessible person. He promised us procedural changes and now it is time for him to unite the conference and give a voice to those Members (and the people they represent) who have felt left out of the process. I am cautiously optimistic that this will be the start of a new chapter for the House."
10.29.2015	“Today, Camp Liberty in Iraq once again came under attack when dozens of missiles rained down over the camp. Reports indicate that more than a dozen people are dead and that number will likely grow. Camp Liberty has been attacked several times before with no action from our State Department. Secretary Kerry has promised we are doing all we can. But those empty promises have delivered nothing, and more people are dead today. Our government must recognize that we have failed to protect the Camp as we have promised to do. The State Department should immediately send people into Iraq to investigate the attack on the ground. Iraq cannot and does not want to protect these freedom fighters. It is time to expedite their safe removal from Iraq to other countries. Perhaps the Administration should spend less time trying to appease Iran and more time working to ensure the safety and security of the Iranian freedom fighters residing in Camp Liberty.” ###
10.28.2015	HOUSTON-- Joy Partain, Consumer Affairs Manager, The Kroger Company, and Texas Retailers Association, Joe Williams, personally delivered the Heroes of Main Street Award to Congressman Ted Poe (R-2nd) this morning (October 26, 2015). We discussed the impact the retail industry has on Texas, for example approximately 1 in 4 jobs are in the retail sector with 2 ½ million retail jobs in Texas at over 317,000 retail locations- a very significant number. We are thankful that NRF posts information like this that helps us convey the message not only to state elected officials, but also to our local Congressman. Keeping Texas Retail Friendly!
10.27.2015	“The proposed budget deal does not raise the debt limit. Instead, it goes even further by giving the Administration no limit on the taxpayer credit card until 2017 with the promise of alleged spending cuts after the next election. The political calendar should not determine our financial future. American families do not operate that way and neither should Washington. One of those planned cuts will come out of the VOCA fund, which is a fund made up of restitution paid by criminals (not taxpayers). Currently, this money is used to assist victims. Under this plan, that money will not go to victims. Instead, it will be used to finance even more reckless Washington spending. For these reasons I will vote no.”
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation & Trade, issued the following statement on the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: “Houston’s economy depends on trade, specifically through the Port of Houston, an export port. Trade through the Port of Houston supports 1 million jobs throughout the state of Texas. With 95% of customers living outside of the United States, Houston depends on exports. To export goods overseas, particularly to riskier areas or on high cost deals, many of those Texas companies rely on a federal export credit agency, the Export-Import Bank, to guarantee their loans made and serviced by local private banks. Any business can apply for these guarantees and businesses that get these guarantees not only have to repay the entire loan but also pay fees to the federal government for this service. The Bank does not cost the taxpayer any money. In fact, because of these fees the Bank actually returns its profit to the Treasury each year. Last year, that amount was $675 million. To be clear, the Bank has not been without its problems, and major reforms – like those included in H.R 597 – will help restore its integrity and rebuild the public’s trust. Revoking its authorization will harm our city and state, which we’ve already started to see in the few months since the Bank’s lapse in reauthorization. Several companies have already announced that they are relocating jobs overseas, including to China. These jobs will not return, and their impact will be felt down the supply chain to mom & pop businesses in our community. Our foreign competitors are not eliminating their credit agencies just because we unilaterally disarm ours. Reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank is a vote for American businesses and jobs. Voting against the Bank is a vote for our foreign competitors, like Vietnam, China and France. I choose to vote for reforms of an entity that will support America’s businesses and exports. ” BACKGROUND v Congress founded the Export-Import Bank to facilitate American trade overseas and to help guarantee financing for U.S. exports. Its charter had been renewed every year since it was created in 1934. That streak of 80 years ended this year when The Bank expired July 1. v Our competitors will not get rid of their export credit agencies just because we do. Eliminating the bank puts US companies at a competitive disadvantage. Instead, countries like China and Russia will be happy to take our business for themselves. We have already seen this happen since the bank expired three months ago. Here in Texas, GE announced that 100 jobs will be moved next year from a facility in Houston to Hungary and China. Why? So GE can access foreign export credit for its customers of gas turbines. v The lapse in reauthorization hurts small businesses even more. One Texas small business owner put it best: “Maybe Boeing can weather a shutdown of the Export-Import Bank, but the small businesses that make up nearly 90 percent of its transactions cannot.” This is just the beginning. v American companies will continue to lose out to foreign competitors backed by aggressive government support. As a result, American companies will suffer and jobs will be destroyed. REFORMS v An Inspector General is required to audit the Bank’s portfolio and risk management procedures and submit a public report to Congress every 3 years. v An independent government agency, the GAO, will review the Bank’s fraud control efforts and release a public report to Congress on its review every 4 years. v For the first time in its history, an Office of Ethics will be established within the Bank. v A chief risk officer positon will be created, and a risk management committee will be established to oversee the bank’s stress testing and exposure levels.
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC), and Rep. Al Green (D-TX) introduced H.Res. 492, to raise awareness and bring attention to domestic violence and its rampant presence in the United States. This bipartisan resolution was introduced during the month of October to highlight Domestic Violence Awareness Month. “Domestic violence is not “just a family issue,” said Rep. Ted Poe. “Our communities must know that domestic violence is not only socially unacceptable but that it will not be tolerated. As a lifelong advocate for victims, our society and country must recognize the devastating effects of domestic violence and do everything in our power to put an end to this nightmare. Like my grandmother always taught me: you never hurt someone you claim to love.”
10.23.2015	“The President, the Commander in Chief, has vetoed money to fund our military.” said Rep. Poe. “His veto yesterday of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed both chambers with overwhelming bipartisan support, is not only reckless and irresponsible, it is an action against the military. The readiness of our men and women in uniform depends on the support of Congress and the President. During a time of political unrest in the Middle East, ensuring our military is fully equipped and prepared is in the greatest interest of our national security. The President should put politics aside and not jeopardize the safety of Americans at home and abroad.”
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Congressmen David Jolly and Doug Collins introduced H.R. 3765, The ADA Education and Reform Act of 2015. This legislation will curb frivolous lawsuits filed by cash-hungry attorneys and plaintiffs that abuse the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act). “The ADA is a vital law that is meant to make American businesses more accessible to the disabled. But the integrity of this important law is being threatened. The vast majority of small businesses in America strive to serve their customers to the best of their ability – relying on the ADA as another tool to help ensure that costumers with disabilities can enjoy the services that they provide,” said Congressman Poe. “Most of these business owners believe that they are in compliance with the ADA and have even passed local and state inspections. However, despite their best attempts, certain attorneys and their pool of serial plaintiffs troll for minor, easily correctable ADA infractions so they can file a lawsuit and make some cash. There is a now whole industry made up of people who prey on small business owners and file unnecessary abusive lawsuits that abuse both the ADA and the business owners. This bill will change that by requiring that the business owners have time to fix what is allegedly broken. If they fail to correct the infractions the plaintiff retains all of their rights to pursue legal action. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of attorneys” Supporting Groups American Hotel and Lodging Association, Asian American Hotel and Lodging Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, American Resort Development Association , Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of Theater Owners , National Council of Chain Restaurants , National Federation of Independent Businesses, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association , Retail Industry Leaders Association ###
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) along with Sens. Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) announced the introduction of the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act (HR 3766). This bipartisan bill would increase public oversight over foreign aid by requiring federal agencies to show both where taxpayer money is spent around the world and how effective that aid is. Since the passage of the Foreign Aid Act in 1961, foreign aid programs have grown and spread across 12 federal departments, 22 agencies, and almost 60 offices – many of which have no monitoring and evaluation procedures in place. In 2011, the Administration launched “The Foreign Aid Dashboard,” a public, online resource that allows users to examine foreign aid in an accessible and easy-to-understand format. Nevertheless, by its own admission, the site is incomplete, with information posted from only 10 of the 22 federal agencies that administer aid. Without a statutory requirement to maintain the data, any Administration can just as easily take down the website or continue to post incomplete information. The “Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act” addresses both of these problems. First, it would require the President to establish guidelines on measurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for all foreign aid programs. Second, it would increase aid transparency by codifying what is currently being done through the Foreign Assistance Dashboard and increasing the amount of information required to be posted online, including actual expenditures and evaluations. “It is time to modernize and reform the outdated foreign aid program”, said Rep. Poe. “Under the current system, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to a majority of the countries in the world, and no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Implementing a system to evaluate the success (or failure) of each program will increase both learning and accountability, making the program stronger. It is also important for Americans to know exactly where their money is sent.” "As a longtime proponent of foreign assistance who, as a staffer for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, helped write the last reauthorization of the Foreign Assistance Act, I appreciate the importance of accountability in our foreign aid programs," said Rep. Connolly. "This bill will bring needed transparency to an often misunderstood part of the federal budget, which will in turn allow us to continue to grow our investment in stability and prosperity abroad." “Although it is less than 1 percent of our budget, foreign assistance plays an important role in advancing American interests in the world, but taxpayers have a right to see where and how American dollars are being used overseas,” Sen. Rubio said. “Foreign aid should be conditioned to advance our national interests and reflect our moral clarity as a nation. The programs we invest taxpayer dollars in must reinforce our alliances and support the spread of economic and political freedom around the world. Sharing more information about our assistance programs will provide much needed transparency and accountability to this useful foreign policy tool.” “U.S. leadership on foreign development, aid programs, and economic assistance is the global gold standard making impactful and positive changes throughout the world,” said Sen. Cardin. “But we must always demand the highest standards of transparency and accountability to ensure our foreign assistance efforts are making the most positive and meaningful impact in the communities we assist. This legislation will establish common guidelines to evaluate our development programs in order to maximize efficiencies and ensure transparency, while fulfilling the highest standards of our foreign assistance responsibilities.”
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade, sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging the Administration to not engage in any negotiations regarding a U.S- Pakistan civilian nuclear agreement. “Pakistan has repeatedly proven itself to be deceptive and deceitful,” said Rep. Poe. “Not only does this country continue to harbor terrorist groups that attack U.S. troops and interests in Afghanistan, they have yet to come clean about previous nuclear dealings with countries like Iran. I’ve long called for an end to military aid to this nation that just takes our money and uses it against our interests. Supporting a civilian nuclear agreement with Pakistan - a Benedict Arnold ally of the U.S. – while the Pakistani government continues to demonstrate it cannot be trusted would be irresponsible and dangerous. ”
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) co-sponsors H.R. 1019, the Partner with Korea Act. Following the passage of the U.S. - Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS) in 2011, this legislation helps maximize the potential benefits of the agreement’s implementation by creating a professional work visa for highly-skilled Korean nationals. This will provide the same number of visas for Korean nationals as those with other FTA partner countries and allow the U.S. to hire individuals with the specialized education and regional expertise to help ensure the success of KORUS. Importantly, the legislation includes protections to ensure that visa holders do not take jobs that are filled by U.S. workers. “The relationship between South Korea and the United States is one that has withstood time and challenges," said Rep. Poe. "South Korea is one of the United States’ closest allies. The Partner with Korea Act would help the U.S. Korea Free Trade Agreement reach its full potential. Increased trade between our two nations will help both of our economies, and providing visas to high skilled workers with specialized skills will particularly help the United States reap the benefits of this free trade agreement. Our countries should stand together as trading partners, allies and friends.” The Partner with Korea Act would: • Create 15,000 professional EB-4 Visas for skilled applicants with specialized education and guaranteed employment • Ensures that Visa holders do not take away jobs that are filled or have the potential to be filled by American workers
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today the House passed with Congressman Poe’s support H.R. 702, which would repeal the statutory ban that directs the President to restrict the exports of crude oil. It also requires the Department of Energy to conduct a study on the size composition and purpose of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. “In the recent nuclear deal with Iran, the Obama Administration agreed to lift the sanctions on Iranian crude oil exports. Lifting sanctions will boost the Iranian economy. Meanwhile, the White House continues to impose a crude oil export ban here at home, and threatening to veto any Congressional action to lift it. The United States is the largest crude oil producer in the world. But this oil lays stagnant in the ground, unable to be sold to markets that are eager to buy because the Federal Government will not let us export it. This ban hurts our economy. Thousands of oil industry workers have been laid off. Half the drilling rigs in Texas have been shut down. Exporting U.S. crude oil will lower gas prices, increase American jobs and strengthen our national security. It’s time to give America the same deal as Iran.” ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C—This week, Congressman Poe (TX-02) recognized the DePelchin Children’s Center as a 2015 “Angel in Adoption” for their important work serving children and families in the Houston community for over 120 years. This award was received by DeJuana Jernigan. “The DePelchin center is doing the Lord’s work- helping our community’s children and their families. They provide foster care and adoption services as well as parental education, mental health services and more. They work to strengthen families—the greatest bond of all. The Houston community is lucky to call the DePelchin center our own. They truly deserve this recognition.” Congressman Poe with DeJuana Jernigan of the DePelchin Children's Center.
10.08.2015	“Congressman Poe traveled to Azerbaijan from May 28, 2013 to May 30, 2013 on an officially-connected trip that was disclosed to and pre-approved by the House Committee on Ethics. Upon his return, Congressman Poe again disclosed to the House Committee on Ethics information pertaining to the trip. One year after the trip, questions arose as to the source of funding and involvement of other entities. The Congressman’s office self-reported these allegations to the House Committee on Ethics and fully cooperated in its subsequent investigation. The House Committee on Ethics concluded its investigation months ago and released its report, clearing Congressman Poe of any allegations. The Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE), a separate entity that can only investigate and refer matters to the House Committee on Ethics, opened its own independent review of the trip. Contrary to the Houston Chronicle’s claims, Congressman Poe did initially cooperate with the OCE by producing documents and providing answers to the OCE’s questions. However, when the Committee on Ethics requested that the OCE cease its review because it was conducting its own investigation, Congressman Poe informed the OCE that he would continue to only communicate and cooperate directly with the House Committee on Ethics, the official arbiter of these matters. He continued to fully cooperate, and the Committee subsequently cleared him.”
10.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – On October 6th, 2015, Representative Rick Crawford (AR-1) introduced H.R. 3687, the Cuba Agricultural Exports Act on behalf on himself, House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway (TX-11), and Representative Ted Poe (TX-2). Under current law, US producers are permitted to export agricultural commodities to Cuba. However, restrictions on financing and marketing harm US competitiveness in the Cuban market and limit export potential. The Cuba Agricultural Exports Act would repeal restrictions on export financing and give producers access to Department of Agriculture marketing programs that help the US compete in foreign markets. Further, this legislation enables limited American investment in Cuban agribusinesses, as long as US regulators certify the entity is privately-owned and not controlled by the Government of Cuba, or its agents. Concerning the bill’s introduction, Representative Crawford said, “While the Administration has called on Congress to repeal the embargo entirely, I think the correct approach is to make cautious and incremental changes to current Cuba policies in ways that benefit the United States. The Cuba Agricultural Exports Act would allow our producers to compete on a level playing field in the Cuban market, a significant opportunity for American farmers and ranchers. Not only is it estimated that Cuba imports around 80 percent of its food supply, but the US also enjoys an inherent advantage due to our close geographic proximity and state of the art production and food distribution infrastructure. I believe that agriculture trading partnerships with Cuba will help build a foundation of goodwill and cooperation that will open the door to long-sought reforms in the same the way that American influence has brought reform to other communist states.”House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway said, "Many in the agricultural industry have expressed a strong interest in increasing exports to Cuba due to the nation’s potential growth as a market for U.S. agricultural products. I appreciate Rick Crawford’s leadership on this bill—especially his efforts at reaching consensus with various stakeholders on this important issue.” Representative Ted Poe said, “It’s been more than 50 years since America’s isolating embargo was placed on Cuba. Ultimately, we know this strategy has failed to accomplish its goals. The same regime remains in power, and American industries have lost out to other nations in the Cuban marketplace. Although more must be done to remedy the human rights violations in Cuba, creating a strong trade relationship will help both the American people and the Cuban people, and one way to start is to open up agricultural trade between our two countries. With the Port of Houston being the largest U.S. export facility in the country, facilitating an agricultural trading relationship with Cuba will open up new markets and grow jobs for not only my congressional district, but America. It’s time to utilize opportunities that exist in our own backyard.” The Cuba Agricultural Exports Act would provide new economic opportunities and jobs for America’s agriculture industry by providing access to a market that is valued at over $1 billion per year. Supported by the US Agriculture Cuba Coalition.
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and other members of the Law Enforcement Task Force hosted a hearing, titled “Examining the State of Relations between the People and Their Protectors.” This Task Force was created to examine the ways to restore the essential and important relationship between police and the community. Witnesses included: The Honorable Greg Zoeller, Attorney General, State of Indiana; Sheriff Jeff Cappa, Wayne County, Indiana; W. Craig Hartley, Jr., Executive Director, Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies; and Dr. Brian A. Jackson, Director, RAND Safety and Justice Program. “Today the Law Enforcement Task Force heard from a variety of witnesses who gave insight into the relations between people and their protectors—peace officers. As a former judge and prosecutor, I know just how often disputes between the law and citizens arise. The working relationship between our local law enforcement and community is a vital one that is important to the development and safety of our neighborhoods. Men and women in uniform put themselves in harm’s way every day, and it is important that our citizens feel protected by them. As a member of the Law Enforcement Task Force, I will work to make sure that transparency and respect are always promoted when it comes to the link between peace officers and the community.”
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined the North American Gas Forum’s Legislative Panel to discuss energy opportunities in the United States. The panel was made up of members of Congress and energy industry experts. “Where I come from, energy is a way of life. I represent part of Houston, Texas—the energy capital of the world. 50 % of the City of Houston’s revenues come from exports, and when it comes to domestic energy resources, I believe we should use what we can and export the rest. However, the energy industry is just another entity tied up in Washington’s red tape. Permits for companies that wish to export natural gas are stuck in the Department of Energy’s stagnant approval process. We should not let natural energy resources lay idle. I have introduced legislation to expedite the approval process and a similar bill passed the House. The government needs to get out of way. Harnessing our domestic energy resources and exporting some of it to our friends and allies around the world makes sense for our economy and national security. “
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade, introduced H.R. 3693 the IRGC Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2015. “Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) has funded, planned and executed terrorist attacks against the United States and our allies for decades,” said Chairman Poe. “Despite this fact, the IRGC has managed to escape the economic repercussions of Department of Treasury sanctions because of an excessively narrow rule defining Government of Iran controlled entities. The Department of Treasury also, inexplicably, has not yet designated the IRGC for its support of terrorism. It’s time to close both of these loopholes and hold the IRGC accountable for its terrorist actions.” The Treasury Department has repeatedly cited the IRGC’s support for terrorism and destabilizing activity throughout the Middle East and beyond. However, only the IRGC’s Qods Force is currently designated by Treasury for its support for terrorism, while the broader IRGC is designated only for its role in proliferation and human rights abuses. In multiple designations, Treasury has highlighted the IRGC’s involvement terrorist activities and even detailed the IRGC’s facilitation of al-Qaeda’s Iran-based network. The IRGC has been linked to terrorist attacks against Americans, including the 1983 bombing of the U.S. embassy in Beirut and the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia. The IRGC is the parent organization of the Qods Force: it is directly responsible for its terrorist activities. There is also growing concern that the IRGC is engaging in financial evasion practices that erode the efficacy of the sanctions currently in place. Treasury currently sanctions companies that are 50% owned or controlled by the Iranian government or in which Iran wields a controlling interest. However, through control of a company’s board of directors, the IRGC can exercise the same level of power over a company without meeting Treasury’s designation trigger. By exploiting this sort of legal loophole, the IRGC has managed to become so deeply entrenched in the Iranian economy to the point that, as former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson pointed out, “it is increasingly likely that if you are doing business with Iran, you are somehow doing business with the IRGC.” The IRGC Terrorist Sanctions Act of 2015 would stop this by requiring the Treasury Department to issue a report within 30 days detailing whether the IRGC meets the requirements for designation as a terrorist entity under E.O. 13224. The Treasury report will also address whether IRGC control of a company’s board of directors triggers designation and outline the factors used to determine controlling interest for such purposes. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC: Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in support of H.R. 3457, the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act. This bill seeks to hold Iran accountable by requiring it to pay court-ordered compensation to victims of its state-sponsored terrorist attacks before the United States lifts any sanctions. The House passed the bill 251-173. “American victims of Iranian-backed terror attacks have waited for justice for far too long,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, our government has made a deal with the devil that will billions of dollars into this State Sponsor of Terrorism’s coffers, while ignoring the victims that still wait for the relief they deserve. US courts decided that Iran owes over $40 billion in unpaid damages to victims of its cowardly terrorist attacks, and it is time to pay up for the injuries and murders that it has caused. There is American blood on Iran’s hands, and there should be absolutely no sanctions relief until Iran pays what it owes the families of these victims.” Read Congressman Poe's remarks on the House Floor here.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Poe (TX-02), co-chair of the Georgian Caucus, met with Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili and members of the Georgian Parliament to discuss relations between the two countries. "As the new co-chairman of the Georgian Caucus, it was an honor and privilege to welcome President Margvelashvili and members of the Georgian Parliament to the U.S. Congress. Georgia is a strong and important ally of the United States, and our two nations could have an even stronger partnership if Georgia was admitted into NATO and the European Union. Three years ago, our nations committed to working towards a free trade agreement. That commitment should be honored. Georgia has proven itself to be a capable and committed partner in the war on terror, particularly so as a non-NATO member in Afghanistan. Our two countries must stand together to challenge Putin’s aggression and attempt to create imaginary Russian states.” Congressman Poe meets with the President of Georgia, Giorgi Margvelashvili
09.30.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 30, 2015 CONTACT Laura Maloney (Murphy) 202-228-1056 Don Canton (Hoeven) 202-224-2551 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) (202) 225-6565 Samaia Hernandez (Esty) 203-561-6457 MURPHY, HOEVEN, POE & ESTY INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN “BILLY’S LAW” TO HELP FIND THE MISSING Bill will streamline the missing persons reporting process & ensure a more comprehensive law enforcement database WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and John Hoeven (R-N.D.), together with U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Elizabeth Esty (D-Conn.), introduced the bipartisan “Billy’s Law”, otherwise known as the Help Find the Missing Act. The legislation will close loopholes in America’s missing persons systems by streamlining the missing persons reporting process and ensuring that law enforcement databases are more accessible and comprehensive. U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) are cosponsors of the legislation. Billy's Law was inspired by Janice Smolinski of Cheshire, Connecticut, after her 31-year-old son Billy went missing. While working with law enforcement to locate her missing son, Smolinski faced countless systemic challenges. Billy's Law was originally introduced in 2009 to address those challenges and help ensure that the tens of thousands of American families whose loved ones go missing each year do not experience the same hurdles faced by the Smolinskis. Murphy said, “The Smolinskis and thousands of other families across America wake up every morning with the crippling uncertainty about the fate of their loved one. They are forced to endure intolerable inefficiencies as they navigate our missing persons systems in search of those they love. These families shouldn't be victimized twice - once by the disappearance of their family member and again by a broken missing persons system. This is the fourth time I’ve introduced Billy’s Law, and I won’t stop fighting until it becomes law.” “Experiences endured by the families of Billy Smolinski and Dru Sjodin in North Dakota highlight for all of us the heartache of dealing with a missing loved one,” Hoeven said. “This bill streamlines the reporting process and makes the technology more accessible to help reduce the stress and uncertainty for families going through the ordeal of trying to find a family member.” “In my past life, I was a chief felony prosecutor and felony court judge in Harris County, Texas for over 30 years,” said Poe. “I know firsthand how violent crime affects the community and families of victims. The loss of a child is the worst pain imaginable. This pain is made even worse when families are left without answers of what happened to their loved ones. This bill works to give the family and friends of victims of the missing a sense of closure by providing necessary resources to help find their loved ones.” “I continue to be humbled and inspired by the Smolinskis, who have the courage to move forward in their pursuit of justice despite the unspeakable tragedy of their beloved son’s disappearance,” Esty said. “We ought to do all we can to help tens of thousands of American families like them who struggle to navigate a broken system. I am proud to join my colleagues in the House and Senate to introduce bipartisan legislation today that will improve access to critical information and help ensure grieving families have the necessary resources to seek justice for their loved ones.” Billy’s Law will authorize funding for the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs) – the only federal database for missing persons and unidentified remains that can be cross-searched, accessed and added to by the public. NamUs enables the loved ones of missing persons to search for a match and add invaluable information to the case profile that only they might know. The legislation will also streamline the reporting process for law enforcement and medical examiners by connecting NamUs to the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC) – an electronic database that helps criminal justice professionals locate missing persons. Finally, Billy's Law will establish an incentive grants program to help coroners, medical examiners, and law enforcement agencies facilitate the reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains, and would require the U.S. Department of Justice to issue a report on best practice standards and procedures. Because of gaps in U.S. missing persons systems, there are an estimated 40,000 sets of unidentified human remains across the country that are rarely matched with missing persons. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, introduced H.R. 3654 the “Combat Terrorist Use of Social Media Act of 2015”. This bill would require the Administration to fulfill its 2011 commitment to come up with a comprehensive strategy to counter terrorists’ use of social media. The bill also requires the Administration to outline and report to Congress on its own efforts and those in coordination with private companies to combat terrorist use of social media. “The threat of ‘lone wolf’ terrorism is greater than ever before thanks to the viral spread of jihadism online. Social media has given ISIS leaders in the Middle East the ability to reach and radicalize teenagers in Western basements—instantly and for free. Jihadists fundraise, spread the cancer of radical Islam and recruit through American social media companies. As a result, tens of thousands of foreign fighters from all over the world have left their homes and joined ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Our government fights back by cutting off terrorist bank accounts; it’s time we cut off their Twitter accounts too. We must defeat the enemy on every battlefield and that includes the web.” ###
09.29.2015	Congressman Poe chairs subcommittee hearing on counterterrorism in Syria. OPENING STATEMENT-- On September 10, 2014, President Obama announced that the United States would “degrade and ultimately destroy” ISIS. That was a year ago. Obviously ISIS didn’t get the memo. This terrorist group keeps on moving across the Middle East killing those who stand in its way by raping, pillaging and murdering those who disagree with ISIS. ISIS controls half of Syria and large parts of Iraq. Civilized society is losing to these barbarians. Despite spending billions in a counterterrorism strategy, the terrorist group’s numbers have not decreased. In fact, ISIS has grown in size with affiliates now all over the world, including Indonesia, Yemen, Egypt, and Libya. A $3.7 billion air strike campaign has been plagued with little measurable successful results. From the very beginning, military officials warned that the air strikes relied on virtually no human intelligence or on-the-ground surveillance. They were right. Without good intelligence, the number of air strikes the US has carried out have been few and the results are uncertain. Also ISIS fighters killed by our airstrikes are just replaced immediately with other jihadists. Our intelligence estimates that ISIS’s numbers are the same as they were when our air strikes started. In addition, the Administration’s $500 million train and equip program has proved to be a failure by anyone’s measure. In July, officials reported that they had identified 7,000 planned participants, but only trained 60 due to intense vetting procedures and other excuses. Later that month, 54 fighters crossed into Syria to fight ISIS forces that number in the tens of thousands. Of those 54 mercenaries, virtually all were killed, captured, or scattered when attacked. We’re now down to 4 or 5 U.S. trained mercenaries, according to General Lloyd Austin of CENTCOM. Despite this failed policy, just last week, we sent a second group of about 70 U.S.-trained fighters into Syria. Just one day later, reports suggested that one of the officers defected and surrendered his arms to al-Qaeda’s Syrian affiliate. Several truckloads of weapons were allegedly traded to another terrorist group al-Nusra for safe passage. It’s time to abandon this failed train and equip program. The reality is just as bleak in the online battlefield. ISIS has 30 to 40,000 social media accounts. It uses the Internet to spread its propaganda, raise money find recruits as far away as Washington State. In 2011, the Administration promised a strategy to combat terrorist use of social media back. 4 years later, the Administration still has not shown us that strategy. No plan, no degrading of ISIS, no defeating of ISIS. The intel given to the Administration has also reportedly been doctored to cover up how bad the war against ISIS is going. Meanwhile, thousands of people are fleeing the Middle East—flooding Europe and demanding entry into other Western countries because of the ISIS carnage and chaos in Syria. ISIS continues to recruit wanna be jihadists online for free via U.S.-owned social media companies. The Administration continually saying that “everything is okay” is an embarrassing, wrong assessment of the violence and threat of ISIS. Today, we are here to get frank assessments of the Administration’s counterterrorism strategy in Syria. In the face of our failure to destroy ISIS, we should be focusing on what we can do better, how we can improve our strategy in the future. ISIS’s advances in Syria translate into more direct threats to our national security and our interests, both abroad and at home. ISIS wants to destroy the United States and everything the U.S. stands for. ISIS fears no one, certainly not the U.S., so it continues to murder in the name of its radical jihadist beliefs. It has already killed numerous Americans. We need a new strategy that protects the American people from this radical Islamist threat. Now we hear on the horizon that the Russians may intervene and help defeat ISIS. Who knows? The U.S. needs to define the enemy and defeat it. And that’s just the way it is.
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) reintroduced H.R. 3626, the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act of 2015. This legislation is in response to the Clean Power Plan announced by the President. The President’s plan attempts to bypass Congress once again, forcing states to implement the first ever caps on carbon emissions. This plan will drastically raise consumers’ costs for power. The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act of 2015 will prohibit funding to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement or enforce The Clean Power Plan (or similar program). “During a time of political turmoil and unrest in the Middle East, President Obama declared that the greatest threat to future generations was climate change,” said Rep. Poe. “That’s nonsense. The Clean Power Plan is just another regulation forcefully imposed on the American people and another attempt to circumvent Congress to push legacy-driven agendas. Simply stated, the Clean Power Act is a tax on energy. The majority of Americans say they are not willing to pay more in taxes and utility costs to generate cleaner energy and fight global warming. The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act of 2015 combats the President’s unilateral executive overreach by prohibiting funds to be used by the EPA to enforce this frivolous plan. Raising the cost of energy for American families will damage the economy and destroy jobs in the energy industry—encouraging employers to take their business elsewhere. Some analysts say the Clean Power Plan may be the most expensive regulation ever placed on the American people.” H.R. 3626, the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act: Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise available for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to implement or enforce: A cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases. The Clean Power Plan that regulates carbon emissions (or similar program)
09.25.2015	"This morning Speaker Boehner announced both his resignation as Speaker and retirement from Congress. The House now has the opportunity and obligation to elect a Speaker that represents the Conservative principles of the people we represent."
09.18.2015	HOUSTON, TEXAS- On Tuesday, September 22, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a “Congress After Hours” event at Theo’s Restaurant in Montrose. This is an informal, come-and-go event where neighbors will have the opportunity to briefly visit one-on-one with Congressman Poe. This event will give individuals the chance to share their thoughts and concerns. All ages are welcome. “I look forward to meeting and visiting with constituents and their families at the Congress After Hours,” said Rep. Poe. “Hearing the concerns and opinions of our neighbors helps me better represent and advocate for the Second District in Congress.” WHEN: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 from 6:00-7:00 pm CST WHERE: Theo’s, 812 Westheimer Road, Houston TX 77006 QUESTIONS? Call Congressman Poe’s Texas Office at: 281.446.0242
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on the House of Representatives votes on the Iran nuclear deal. “This week, the House took decisive steps to demonstrate the will of Congress and the people we represent regarding the Iran Deal. First, the House passed a resolution stating that the Administration had not presented the full Iran deal (with all of the side deals) to Congress. The House then took a straight up or down vote on the deal itself. This bill failed, demonstrating that the deal does not have the support of the majority of members on both sides of the aisle. Lastly, the House voted to suspend the President’s authority to unilaterally waive sanctions, which Congress and the Administration imposed on Iran. The People’s House has spoken. I urge the President and the Senate to listen. Putting the wishes of the Ayatollah before the will of the House and the American people would be a historically reckless decision.” Summary of House Action on Iran This Week: H.R. 3461 – To Approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, relating to the nuclear program of Iran. A vote for the bill would approve of the Iran nuclear deal. (FAILED) H.R. 3460 – To suspend until January 21, 2017, the authority of the President to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran. Suspends President’s ability to limit sanctions against Iran until Obama is out of office. (PASSED) H. Res 411 – Finding that the President had not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 by failing to send Congress the side deals negotiated in the nuclear talks with the P5+1. (PASSED)
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C.-- "Fourteen years ago today, America found itself under attack, and our country was changed forever. The September 11th attacks were acts of incomprehensible evil intended to tear our country apart, but those who sought to destroy us actually brought our nation together. As a result of the first responders and volunteers’ heroism, many got to live another day. As people ran away from the terror that came from the skies, another group ran towards the danger. In the face of attack, a remarkable spirit of unity and compassion swept through our country and brought our nation together in the face of hate. Three years ago today there was another 9/11 attack on American soil. Terrorists attacked the U.S. consulate in Benghazi; four Americans, including our Ambassador Chris Stephens, were murdered. On that day we were reminded that Osama bin Laden may be dead, but the war on terror is not over. We know who the Benghazi killers are, but justice has still not been delivered and questions remain unanswered. Today the threat of terror is greater than it has ever been. Terrorists live on almost every continent around the globe. Their mission is to kill and America is always the main target. We must be aggressive about defining and destroying the greatest threat to our national security—Radical Islamic Extremism. As we remember the tragedy that occurred on 9/11/01 and 9/11/12, we should remember those who died, those who got to live, and those who continue to fight for our freedoms today in places all over the world in the name of liberty and freedom."
08.31.2015	“Harris County Sheriff's Deputy Darren Goforth was executed because he wore the uniform of a Texas peace officer. May justice be swift and harsh for his killer. As a former prosecutor and Judge I have tried cases where peace officers were murdered. I have also tried cases where peace officers were charged with killing citizens. When a person kills a peace officer they are striking at the fabric and foundation of law and order in our community. Peace officers protect us from the lawless, a job that most of us would never do. In Texas, we are grateful for those in uniform who put their lives at risk each day to protect and serve. The divisive national rhetoric fueling the war on law enforcement is encouraging criminals to be more brazen. As a result, crime is up in our city and our country. My thoughts and prayers are with Deputy Goforth’s wife, two children and all those who wear the star and badge. All lives matter.”
08.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Senior Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the release of Pastor Duong Kim Khai. Congressman Poe previously addressed the House to raise awareness of the plight of Pastor Khai. "Pastor Duong Kim Khai Duong was detained or arrested thirteen times since the 1990s, usually for organizing prayer sessions. Most recently, he was arrested in August 2010 for his efforts to advocate for religious freedom and social justice. The trumped up charge? Attempting to overthrow the government. In 2011, the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention ruled that the Vietnam government's detention and conviction of Pastor Duong Kim Khai and six other activists were in violation of international law. But the State Department continued to ignore the situation for years, refusing to include Vietnam as a Country of Particular Concern for religious freedom. Thankfully Pastor Duong Kim Khai Duong was released from prison this week yet he still remains under unjust house arrest. The Administration should call on the Vietnamese government to release him immediately. The International community should no longer stand for religious persecution, especially when it is sponsored by a government."
07.31.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, the House Committee on Ethics released a report on its investigation regarding allegations related to officially-connected travel to Azerbaijan and after its investigation, cleared Congressman Poe of any wrongdoing. Congressman Poe traveled to Azerbaijan from May 28, 2013 to May 30, 2013 on an officially-connected trip that was pre-approved by the House Committee on Ethics. Prior to the travel, the Turquoise Council of Americans and Eurasians (TCAE) claimed and disclosed to both our office and the House Committee on Ethics that it was the sole sponsor of the trip. Upon his return, Congressman Poe again disclosed to the House Committee on Ethics information pertaining to the trip. However, one year after the trip, questions arose as to the source of funding and involvement of other entities. The Congressman’s office self-reported these allegations to the Committee on Ethics and cooperated in its subsequent investigation. The House Committee on Ethics has now concluded its investigation where it found the following: “The Committee found no evidence that the Members and staff who participated in the trip knowingly violated any House Rule, law, regulation or other standard of conduct.” “All of the Members and staff who went on the trips did so only after get Committee approval to accept the trips.” “All Members and staff fully cooperated with the Committee’s review” “The Committee is referring the matter of third parties apparently engagement in a criminal conspiracy to lie to Congress to the Department of Justice.” “The Committee intends to take no further action regarding this matter and thus considers it closed.” **TO READ THE COMMITTEE’S STATEMENT CLICK HERE**
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Needs of Scrutiny (REINS) Act with Congressman Poe’s support. This legislation will require any federal rule or regulation with an annual economic impact of $100 million or more to come before Congress for an up-or-down before being adopted as law. “For years, the fourth branch of government – the regulators in Washington – has proposed expensive, burdensome and ineffective regulations,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, the high cost of complying with these regulations threatens American jobs, putting some out of business and causing others to pack up and take their business elsewhere. The REINS Act is a commonsense piece of legislation that cuts the red tape, holds the government accountable and allows for American businesses to thrive without burdensome, bureaucratic regulations.”
07.21.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Tuesday, July 21, 2015 Reps. Poe and Matsui Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Strengthen Passenger Safety on Cruise Ships The Cruise Passenger Protection Act would build on the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act (CVSSA) by strengthening crime reporting, video surveillance requirements, and medical standards. WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Jim Himes (D-CT), Members of the Congressional Victim’s Rights Caucus, introduced bipartisan legislation to increase the safety and security of cruise ship passengers. The Cruise Passenger Protection Act (CPPA) would build on the passenger safety measures put in place by the CVSSA, which was signed into law in 2010, by clarifying and strengthening the crime reporting requirements and the video surveillance requirements, and improving medical standards. “The passage of the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act in 2010 was a turning point for the safety and security of cruise passengers,” said Rep. Poe. “The Cruise Passenger Protection act will go even further and build upon that success by putting in place stronger requirements to protect victims of crime and hold their perpetrators accountable.” “The Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act was signed into law by President Obama in 2010, and was a critical first step in putting protections into place for the thousands of Americans who unknowingly put themselves at risk when they go on a cruise,” said Rep. Matsui. “The Cruise Passenger Protection Act, which I am pleased to introduce today with my colleagues Representatives Ted Poe and Jim Himes, will continue to build upon the security and safety measures aboard our cruise ships and ensure that consumers have access to accurate information and victims are given the support and resources they deserve. I am grateful to the survivors and the victims’ families who by sharing their stories have brought national attention and Congressional action to this important consumer safety issue.” “This is a personal issue for me because it has profoundly affected my district and Connecticut,” said Rep. Himes. “In 2005, George Smith IV of Greenwich went missing while on his honeymoon cruise in the Mediterranean Sea. Since George’s disappearance, his family has been fighting tirelessly to improve safety on cruise ships and to protect cruise ship passengers. The fight continues today with the Cruise Passenger Protection Act. This bill bolsters current law with tighter crime reporting, expanded video surveillance equipment and record-keeping requirements, and streamlined tracking and public reporting of alleged crimes on cruise ships. It is safety improvements like these that will help prevent more avoidable tragedies.” “Out of their deep concern for the welfare, safety and security of all U.S. citizens who travel on cruise ships, Reps. Doris Matsui, Ted Poe, and Jim Himes have introduced new legislation which will provide greater protection for those passengers,” said Kendall Carver, Chairman of International Cruise Victims (ICV). “All members of ICV sincerely applaud this bipartisan effort to advance these much needed reforms. Rep. Matsui’s passionate interest came about when one of her constituents, Laurie Dishman, sought her assistance. Rep. Poe, as Chairman of the Victim’s Caucus, has played a meaningful role in providing support to victims of crime at sea. Rep Himes strong interest is in support of the Smith family, who lost their son. Their leadership resulted in the passing of the historic legislation known as the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act of 2010. ICV is most appreciative of their continued support to further enhance these safety requirements.” Specifically, the CPPA would: Ensure a cruise vessel owner notifies the FBI within four hours of an alleged incident. Ensure that if an alleged incident occurs while the vessel is still in a U.S. port, the FBI must be notified before that vessel leaves the port. Require vessel owners to also report an alleged offense to the U.S. Consulate in the next port of call, if the alleged offense is by or against a U.S. national. Clarify that vessels must have video surveillance equipment in all passenger common areas, and other areas, where there is no expectation of privacy. Allow individuals access to video surveillance records for civil action purposes. Mandate that all video records are kept for 30 days after completion of the voyage. Direct the Coast Guard to promulgate final standards within one year detailing requirements for the retention of video surveillance records. Transfer authority for maintaining the internet website of alleged crimes on cruise ships from the Coast Guard to the Department of Transportation. Require that the website breakout the crimes that are reported against minors and alleged “man overboards” incidents. Direct the Department of Transportation to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of having an individual on board each passenger vessel to provide victim support services Require integration of technology that can both capture images and detect when a passenger has fallen overboard. Ensure medical standards that would require a qualified physician and sufficient medical staff to be present and available for passengers, crew member basic life support training, accessible automated defibrillators, and that the safety briefing includes important emergency medical and safety information. Ensure that should a U.S. passenger die aboard a vessel his or her next of kin could request the vessel to return the deceased back to the United States. Similar legislation authored by Senators Richard Blumenthal and Edward Markey has been introduced in the Senate. ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issues the following statement on the passage of H.R.237 the FTO Passport Revocation Act. This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Poe, would authorize the revocation or denial of passports and passport cards to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations. It passed the House unanimously. “Daily, deadly attacks around the world remind us that radical Islamic terrorists are spreading their murderous rampage worldwide. The threat to America from these groups has never been greater. But some of our own citizens have travelled to the terrorist hotbeds in Syria and beyond to fight for the other side. These Benedict Arnold traitors who have turned against America and joined the ranks of foreign radical terrorist armies should lose all rights afforded to our citizens. The FTO Passport Revocation Act would authorize the revocation or denial of passports to individuals affiliated with Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs). This will help law enforcement locate these individuals by making it easier to flag the individuals who are trying to travel internationally. Most importantly, this legislation will help prevent turned Americans from coming back to the United States undetected. The House has now acted to locate and contain these traitors. It’s time for the Senate to quickly do the same. These people are not returning to America to open coffee shops; they are coming back to kill. Let’s stop them from coming back at all.” Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism.
07.17.2015	“This week, a seemingly normal young man-turned radical militant attacked military facilities in Tennessee, killing four Marines. These warriors, who devoted their lives to protecting America against enemies around the world, were tragically gunned down right here at home. This domestic terrorist attack is a reminder of the harsh reality that the cancer of radical Islam knows no borders. ISIS has inspired a new wave of terror, preaching hate and murder and infecting young minds all over the globe. America must continue to be vigilant against this constant threat while doing everything it can to eliminate it both here and abroad.”
07.14.2015	“This morning, President Obama announced that we have reached a “historic” nuclear deal with Iran. The only thing historic about this deal is how dangerous it is for the United States. This deal was driven more by the President’s legacy than what is best for our national security. Not only will this reckless deal make America less safe, it will also spark an arms race in the Middle East. Other nations in the region will understandably want the ability to defend themselves against a nuclear Iran. The agreement reached with Iran abandons the Administration's previous promises. Instead of dismantling Iran’s nuclear infrastructure, Iran now receives an international stamp of approval to enrich uranium and continue its work towards zero breakout time in fifteen years. Instead of “anywhere, anytime” inspections, Iran will now get to decide if and when they allow access to IAEA inspectors. Iran will be able to delay inspectors for at least 24 days, plenty of time to conceal its activities to inspectors. The economic sanctions and arms embargo were also abandoned– enabling Tehran with the cash and weapons to ramp up their terrorist activity throughout the world. The Iranians are hailing this deal as a victory – and they should. We have made Iran a threshold nuclear power and an even greater threat to the world than it was before.” Congressman Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of his amendments to H.R. 2822, the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016. (1) Transfers $1 million from the Forest Service’s Land Acquisition account to their National Forest System Account for the identification of unused land for potential sale. (2) Transfers $1 million from the Bureau of Land Management’s Land Acquisition Account to their Service, Charges, Deposits and Forfeitures Account for the identification of unused land for potential sale. “The Federal Government owns 27% of the total land in the United States. This is bigger than the countries of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, Italy, United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Belgium put together. Instead of letting this land sit idly in the hands of Washington, why not sell it? The sales of just a small portion of this unused land could net billions of dollars. Opening up this unused land will generate revenue, create new jobs and stimulate growth. It’s time to put American land back in the hands of Americans.”
06.26.2015	“Today dozens of people in three different continents were slaughtered in terrorist attacks. In France, a person was beheaded and his head was left outside an American business that militants then tried to blow up unsuccessfully. In Kuwait, a suicide bomber blew up a Shiite mosque, killing at least 24 people and injuring many others. In Tunisia, militants stormed a beach and sprayed gunfire, killing almost 30 civilians. This deadly day is a reminder that terrorism and the cancer of Radical Islam knows no borders. It is also a reminder of the sobering reality that if we do not continue to aggressively fight the enemy overseas, they will bring their reign of terror to America.” Congressman Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-Proliferation & Trade
06.24.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 24, 2015 CONTACT: Sean Coit at 202-224-5042 or Sean_Coit@coons.senate.gov Garrette Turner at 202-224-7784 or Garrette_Turner@moran.senate.gov Austin Vevurka at 202-225-3311 or austin.vevurka@mail.house.gov Shaylyn Hynes at 202-225-6565 or shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.gov Coons, Moran, Poe, Thompson bill will level the playing field for renewable energy Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act would give renewable energy projects access to a tax advantage currently available only to oil, gas, and coal projects WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE) and Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX-02) and Mike Thompson (D-CA-05) re-introduced bipartisan legislation to level the energy playing field by giving investors in renewable energy projects access to a decades-old corporate structure whose tax advantage is currently available only to investors in fossil fuel-based energy projects. The Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act is a straightforward, powerful modification of the federal tax code that could unleash significant private capital by helping additional energy-generation and renewable fuel companies form master limited partnerships, which combine the funding advantages of corporations and the tax advantages of partnerships. “Renewable energy technologies have made tremendous progress in the last several decades, and they deserve the same shot at success in the market as traditional energy projects,” Senator Coons said. “By updating the tax code, the bipartisan Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act levels the playing field for all domestic energy sources – renewable and non-renewable – to support the all-of-the-above energy strategy we need to power our country for generations to come. This practical, market-driven solution will unleash private capital and create jobs, and that’s why it has earned broad support from Republicans and Democrats in Congress as well as academics, outside experts, business leaders, and investors.” “In order to grow our economy and increase our energy security, sound economic tools like master limited partnerships should be expanded to include additional domestic energy sources,” Senator Moran said. “MLPs have a proven record of success through real growth in our country’s energy infrastructure. This legislation builds on a successful model, and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues on policies that will drive innovation, create American jobs, and grow our economy.” “It is time for the United States to make Middle Eastern turmoil irrelevant to our energy security,” said Representative Poe. “In order to do this we must pursue a comprehensive energy strategy that empowers all sources of domestically produced energy. This common-sense bill will help do just that. It is time for Washington to get out of the way and make it easier not harder to produce energy in this country.” “We need to take an all-of-the-above approach to America’s energy future,” said Representative Thompson. “This bipartisan bill will make it easier and more attractive for private capital to be invested in renewable energy. By leveling the playing field and treating renewable energy the same way we do oil and gas, we can create jobs, strengthen our national security, reduce our dependency on foreign oil and move closer to energy independence.” A master limited partnership (MLP) is a business structure that is taxed as a partnership, but whose ownership interests are traded like corporate stock on a market. By statute, MLPs have only been available to investors in energy portfolios for oil, natural gas, coal extraction and pipeline projects. These projects get access to capital at a lower cost and are more liquid than traditional financing approaches to energy projects, making them highly effective at attracting private investment. Investors in renewable energy projects, however, have been explicitly prevented from forming MLPs, starving a fast growing portion of America’s domestic energy sector of the capital it needs to build and grow. Newly eligible power generation from renewables, renewable fuels, and related energy activities: Solar (PV and CSP), Wind, Hydropower, Marine/Hydrokinetic, Fuel Cells, Electricity Storage, Combined Heat and Power, Biomass, Waste Heat to Power, Renewable Fuels, Biodiesel, Biorefineries, Energy Efficient Buildings, Carbon Capture and Storage In the Senate, The MLP Parity Act was also cosponsored by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Angus King (I-ME) and Cory Gardner (R-CO). In the House, the MLP Parity Act was also cosponsored by Paul Gosar (R-AZ-04), Mark Amodei (R-NV-02), Peter Welch (D-VT-AL), Jerry McNerney (D-CA-09), Mike Coffman (R-CO-06) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03). The MLP Parity Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: States: National Association of State Energy Officials (NASEO); Businesses: Bloom Energy, Duke Energy, DuPont, First Solar, Gamesa, NRG Energy, Sempra Energy, Vestas, Virent, Williams; Trade Associations: Advanced Biofuels Association, Advanced Ethanol Coalition, Alliance to Save Energy, American Council on Renewable Energy, American Wind Energy Association, Biomass Power Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization, Combined Heat & Power Association, Energy Storage Association, Geothermal Energy Association, Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, Growth Energy, Heat is Power Association, International District Energy Association, National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative, Real Estate Roundtable, Solar Energy Industries Association; Environmental Advocates: Clean Air Task Force, Union of Concerned Scientists; Think Tanks and Research Institutes: Clean Energy Trust, Third Way; Finance & Investment: CalCEF, CERES; Labor: Laborers’ International Union of North America A summary of the bill can be downloaded here: http://coons.senate.gov/download/mlp-parity-act-summary- A section-by-section summary of the bill can be downloaded here: http://coons.senate.gov/download/mlp-parity-act-section-by-section The legislation itself can be downloaded as a PDF here: http://coons.senate.gov/download/mlp-parity-act-114 Below are statements of support for the MLP Parity Act: Dan W. Reicher, Executive Director, Stanford University Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance & Interim President and CEO, American Council on Renewable Energy (ACORE): “The MLP Parity Act is one of those rare birds on Capitol Hill: a bill with broad bipartisan support, a deep policy rationale, and serious potential for both economic and environmental benefits.” Richard Kauffman, Chair of Energy and Finance, New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo: “The MLP Parity Act helps clean energy compete on a level playing field with other industries that use stock and bond markets. Let’s evolve our financing to match our innovative energy economy.” Phyllis Cuttino, Director, Clean Energy, The Pew Charitable Trusts: “The Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act would expand a tax incentive that is currently available only to oil and gas projects to include clean energy sources as well. By opening up low-cost financing to a broader range of technologies, this legislation would help grow our domestic energy industry and increase the United States’ competitiveness. Thank you to Senators Coons and Moran and Representatives Poe and Thompson for their leadership on this legislation.” David Terry, Executive Director, National Association of State Energy Officials: "We thank Senator Coons for strongly supporting key options for financing renewable energy projects, including master limited partnerships. This continues the trend of the Senator providing thoughtful leadership in the energy arena." Rhone Resch, President and CEO, SEIA: “Today, solar is the fastest-growing source of renewable energy in America, employing 174,000 workers at 8,000 U.S. companies. Senator Coons' MLP proposal would help to build on this tremendous success by leveling the playing field between clean, renewable energy and long-entrenched energy sources in America. SEIA applauds Sen. Coons for putting forward an idea that has the potential to attract private sector investment for critically-important solar projects.” Barry Granger, Vice President for Government Affairs, DuPont: “We appreciate Senator Coons thoughtful and supportive legislation to encourage investment in cellulosic ethanol and advanced biofuels by extending the tax-efficient Master Limited Partnership structure to investments in these forms of energy. These tax policies have proven effective in encouraging investment in oil and gas infrastructure and can similarly provide a much needed incentive for further developing the domestic renewable fuels industry.” James C. Greenwood, President and CEO, BIO: “The MLP Parity Act will help level the playing field between renewable fuels and fossil fuels in tax policy that shapes private investment decisions. We are especially pleased that this legislation also covers renewable chemicals, for the first time establishing tax parity for this growing biotech sector. This will clear a path for increased industrial biotechnology innovation and commercialization activities that drives employment and economic growth and reduces dependence on foreign oil.” Brooke Coleman, Executive Director, Advanced Ethanol Council: “The advanced and cellulosic ethanol industry strongly supports the efforts of Senators Coons and the other co-sponsors of Master Limited Partnership Parity Act to level the playing field for advanced technologies when it comes to MLPs. The MLP Parity Act would take a meaningful inequity out of the federal tax code, allow advanced technologies to compete for financing on a more level playing field, and put the country in a better position to create jobs and compete in the emerging $2 trillion global clean energy marketplace. Oil and gas producers are essentially using MLPs to access the retail investment market more quickly and efficiently, which in turn makes it easier to finance new oil and gas projects. It makes no sense for the federal government to continue to offer this financing vehicle to fossil fuels only. We commend this bipartisan group for tackling this issue.” John Prunkl, President and CEO, Primary Energy Recycling Corporation and Chair, Heat is Power Association: “We own and operate one of the largest waste heat to power projects in the U.S. for the benefit of a large steel producer in the Midwest. The economic and environmental benefits of this project are undeniable and have helped position our customer as a low cost producer of steel in the region while helping them produce their product with a smaller environmental impact. The MLP Parity Act would lower the cost of capital for waste heat to power projects like ours, making these projects easier to finance and more attractive to a broader range of customers, while supporting jobs and the local economy. We applaud the sponsors' efforts to level the playing field for energy generation resources like ours that improve the competitiveness of our nation’s industrial sector and generate power with no additional fuel, combustion or emissions.” Kateri Callahan, President, Alliance to Save Energy: “We applaud Alliance Honorary First Vice-Chair Senator Chris Coons and Senator Jerry Moran, sponsors of the Master Limited Partnerships (MLP) Parity Act, for this common sense bill encouraging private investment in energy efficiency projects. Bringing parity between investors in clean energy and investors in oil, natural gas, coal extraction, and pipeline projects makes sense. The MLP Parity Act will help to bolster energy productivity, create jobs, and save consumers and businesses money.” Kurt Waltzer, Managing Director, Clean Air Task Force: "The Clean Air Task Force strongly supports the MLP Parity Act. In order to address climate, we need to have several affordable low and zero carbon technology options. This bill is particularly important for Carbon Capture and Storage - a critical path technology for addressing climate change that is in the early stage of its deployment. Having MLP financing available for CCS would help reduce the financing costs of early-mover projects. Reducing financial barriers for early projects is a necessary step for getting more steel in the ground, and thereby driving down costs through learning and innovation.” Brad Crabtree and Patrick Falwell, Co-Directors, National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative: “On behalf of participating energy, industrial, and technology companies, labor unions, environmental organizations, and state officials, the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative applauds the MLP Act’s sponsors for expanding MLP eligibility to increase private investment in carbon capture and storage projects. Capturing carbon dioxide from power plants and many other industrial facilities for use in enhanced oil recovery produces more American oil, creates good-paying jobs, generates net new revenue for the federal treasury, and reduces CO2 emissions.” Mike McAdams, President, Advanced Biofuels Association: "We are grateful for Senator Coons' leadership at a critical point for America's domestic biofuels industry as we are moving from the beaker to the barrel, in record time. The legislation provides an innovative financial mechanism that could significantly reduce the cost of financing as companies are reaching a game-changing milestone. Substantial investments by private companies in research and development have been the catalyst for today's success in bringing advanced biofuels to commercial markets, but stable and consistent public policies are crucial to encourage and allow additional investment dollars that will help get us across the finish line. By creating a new and more appealing option for investors, the bill helps level the playing field and ultimately promotes a more cost competitive advanced biofuel alternative to conventional fuel." Matt Carr, Executive Director, Algae Biomass Organization: “The members of the Algae Biomass Organization applaud Senator Coons for his work to create a more level playing field for investment in renewable energy projects through the MLP Parity Act. Algae-derived fuel producers are confident that when the tax code and other federal programs are applied blindly to renewable and traditional energy projects, renewable energy will see a significant increase in private investment, making renewable energy more cost competitive. The increased competition will help drive down energy bills for all ratepayers. Senator Coons' MLP Bill is essential to creating fair competition in the energy market.” Robert P. Thornton, President & CEO, International District Energy Association: “When Super Storm Sandy hit in 2012 and knocked out power to 8.1 million people in 21 states, the need for more robust and resilient energy infrastructure became alarmingly obvious and urgent for cities, communities, campuses, industry and healthcare. Today, mayors and CEO’s alike are seeking public/private partnerships to accelerate capital investment in district energy and combined heat & power microgrids to deliver more efficient and sustainable local energy solutions. The Master Limited Partnership Parity Act offers significant potential to catalyze growth of these community-scale clean energy resources. By providing a new source of liquid private capital, the Act can play a vital role in strengthening the infrastructure of our nation’s cities, communities, institutions and military bases.” Steve Clemmer, Director, Energy Research and Analysis, Union of Concerned Scientists: “Giving renewable energy projects access to low-cost financing available from publicly-traded MLPs would help level the playing field with fossil fuels and give all Americans the opportunity to invest in the transition to a cleaner, low-carbon economy. This innovative financing tool would expand the investor base and lower the cost of financing renewables projects by roughly 40 percent, addressing an existing market barrier currently inhibiting development. Such a change means more clean energy projects being built and continued economic benefits in this growing sector.” Joe Keefe, President & CEO, Pax World Mutual Funds: “We’re looking for exposure to clean energy opportunities throughout our $3.8 billion portfolio. The ability to invest in clean energy infrastructure is particularly interesting. However, like many investors, we invest through the capital markets and are thus not in a position to finance individual renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. Smart changes, like those proposed for Real Estate Investment Trusts and Master Limited Partnerships, could provide opportunities for investment by firms like Pax as well as individual investors.” George Gay, CEO, First Affirmative Financial Network: “Investments like those possible through clean energy MLPs are exactly the type of investments our clients want to make. Like many Americans, they want to support projects that provide clean energy and create jobs domestically. Our typical client already has a large portion of their investment portfolio dedicated to energy projects through Master Limited Partnerships. They are investments we know and trust and their use for clean energy could be a great way to fund clean energy projects, spark job creation, catalyze economic growth, and provide investment opportunities for responsible investors.” Lowell Miller, Founder, President/CIO, Miller/Howard Investments Inc.: “There is no apparent logic to the current exclusion of renewable energy companies from the ability to form publicly traded partnerships. A large part of the intent in permitting energy companies to become MLPs was to encourage the development of domestic energy resources and infrastructure. Entity-level taxation was eliminated, and enabled a greater pass-through of revenues to shareholders, thus creating a “yield” vehicle and an additionally attractive feature of the entity’s equity. To fail to include renewable energy is, in effect, to say that the government and its tax system wants to implicitly encourage carbon-based energy development and to discourage—or not encourage—renewable energy development. It’s doubtful that a poll of citizens would agree with this standpoint.” ###
06.23.2015	"Today the House took necessary steps to protect and ensure seniors’ access to Medicare by voting to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). IPAB, established under the Affordable Care Act, is made up of 15 unelected bureaucrats that acts as a decision-making body whose main focus is to control healthcare costs. These decisions directly affect Americans, mainly seniors, and could impact their access to healthcare. As I have always said, healthcare decisions should be made between patient and doctor, not some Washington desk-jockey. IPAB is just more red tape suffocating our healthcare system, further illustrating the failures of Obamacare."
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade issued the following statement on the passage of his amendments to H.R.2596 the Intel Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. POE AMENDMENTS: (1) Require the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to produce a report on wildlife trafficking, how terrorist organizations are involved, and its impact on US national security. (2) Require the DNI to report to Congress how terrorists are using social media, assess the intelligence value of social media posts by terrorists, and evaluate the impact that terrorist use of social media has on our national security. (3) Require the DNI, in coordination with the relevant agencies, to produce a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIL, al Qaeda, and affiliated groups. “On June 8th, President Obama announced that “we don’t yet have a complete strategy” to combat ISIS. The group now controls more territory than any other terrorist group since WWII. A strategy from this Administration is long overdue. This strategy should go after ISIS on all battlefields and through all means. We must go after them financially by stopping the money flow. And we should counter their efforts to use American social media companies to advance their cause. Osama bin Laden and his band of extremists carried out the most deadly attack on U.S. soil since Pearl Harbor with just half a million dollars. Since 2001, terrorist groups worldwide have grown into sophisticated, well-armed and well-financed criminal enterprises. If we want to fight terrorists, we must follow the money trail. One source of funding often overlooked is wildlife trafficking. Terrorists have tapped into this multi-billion dollar industry and it is time that the Administration to start taking this connection seriously. Terrorists also fundraise and recruit through social media which has played a key role as tens of thousands of foreign fighters have flocked to fight for ISIS in Iraq and Syria. America fights back by cutting off terrorist bank accounts; it’s time we cut off their Twitter accounts too.“
06.12.2015	Opening new markets helps Houston businesses and jobs. One half of Houston’s economy is directly related to business from the Port of Houston. Surprisingly, 95% of consumers of U.S. goods are outside of the United States. For these reasons, I support creating new markets for American products and expanding opportunities for American businesses overseas. American companies will win if they have a level playing field, but right now that is not the case in many countries in Asia because of high local taxes on American goods and services. To help American companies access markets in Asia with reduced barriers and tariffs, the U.S. began negotiations on a free trade agreement under President Bush. President Obama’s Administration has continued these negotiations. But, the Constitution states that Congress has the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. Trade Promotion Authority allows Congress to insert itself into the negotiations; otherwise, the Administration will have free reign to negotiate whatever it wants. Under Trade Promotion Authority, Congress inserted about 150 mandatory conditions for the Administration to follow in its negotiations. Once the negotiations are concluded, the text of the agreement will be made public for 60 days for the American public to read and comment on. After that timeframe, Congress will have a second vote to approve or reject the deal. If Congress rejects the deal, there is no deal. If Congress supports the deal, U.S. sovereignty is not affected in any way. No part of the deal that contradicts U.S. law can go into effect and no provision of the deal can prevent the United States from changing its laws. U.S. law always wins out. I understand the transparency concerns that many have raised. I read the classified text. Broadly speaking, it is good for America and will help exporters have more markets overseas and fair terms to conduct business. Despite rumors, it also does not include any language dealing with immigration policy, and Chairman Ryan has stated in writing that he will include explicit language to ensure that this agreement cannot change our immigration laws. And, I certainly understand the fears that this Administration will simply defy the law to get its way as its done time and time again. But, in this case, Congress has the final say. The agreement will not go into effect unless Congress approves it. If we do not get this agreement done, then China will happily step in and negotiate its own regional agreement for its own products. Personally, I think the United States should write the rules. That’s why I voted for Trade Promotion Authority. Congressman Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-Proliferation and Trade. He is also the Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional PORTS Caucus.
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) issued the following statement on the House passage of H. Res 295, supporting local law enforcement agencies in their continued work to serve our communities, and supporting their use of body worn cameras to promote transparency to protect both citizens and officers. H. Res 295 was introduced by Congressman Al Green (D-TX) with Congressman Poe as the lead Republican sponsor. Prior to coming to Congress, Congressman Poe served as a criminal court Judge for 22 years in Houston, Texas. “Every day, men and women in our local law enforcement put themselves in harm’s way to protect our neighborhoods and communities,” said Rep. Poe. “Often times, they find themselves in scary and unpredictable situations, that is why transparency is always important. Body cameras will help to ensure both sides of the story are always told. They work to support both our men and women in blue and our citizens. Body cameras will tighten the gap between he said, she said. As a former judge and prosecutor, I know how often disputes between the law and citizens arise. Body cameras serve as useful tools for law enforcement and the community alike. ”
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. ---Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of an amendment to defund two surveillance “backdoors” that currently allow intelligence agencies access to Americans’ private data and correspondence without a warrant. The amendment was included in the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Defense appropriations bill (H.R. 2685) and passed with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 255-174. Poe was joined by Reps. Massie, Lofgren, Sensenbrenner, Conyers, Gabbard, Jordan, O’Rourke, Amash, Pocan, Nadler, DelBene, Farenthold, Sanford, Collins, Lieu and Labrador. Congressman Poe is also the lead sponsor of an identical standalone bill, the End Warrantless Surveillance of Americans Act (H.R. 2233). The amendment shuts one “backdoor” by prohibiting warrantless searches of government databases for information that pertains to U.S. citizens. It also prohibits the NSA and CIA from placing “backdoors” into commercial products. “Congress should act now to stop warrantless searches under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA),” said Rep. Poe. “Right now, under Section 702 the government is allowed to snoop and spy on the content of a citizen’s phone calls, texts and emails---all without a warrant. Failure to address this gaping loophole in FISA leaves the constitutional rights of millions of Americans vulnerable and unprotected. The NSA has and will continue to violate the constitutional protections guaranteed to every American unless Congress intervenes. Until we fix this and make the law clear, citizens can never be sure that their private conversations are safe from the eyes of the government.”
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of his amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill of 2015. This amendment will bring resources to victims of trafficking by restoring grant funding to last year’s level. “Human trafficking is modern day slavery and it is happening right now in cities all across America,” said Rep. Poe. “Congress recently took action to combat trafficking by passing the bipartisan Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act which was signed into law by President Obama. Trafficking is a multibillion dollar criminal enterprise with countless victims sold for sex and labor in the United States. This Amendment takes $17.3 million from the bloated $1 billion Census Bureau budget and uses it instead to fund grants for victims of trafficking, restoring funding to last year’s level. The Amendment will bring resources to victims and help stop the egregious crime of trafficking.”
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of his amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill of 2015. This amendment would defund the criminal penalty the American Community Survey carries. The American Community Survey is administered annually by the U.S. Census Bureau. “Article 1 of the Constitution mandates a census every 10 years so that seating in Congress remains proportional to state populations. The Constitution does not however authorize the annual, mandatory survey that 3 million people receive called The American Community Survey (ACS),” said Rep. Poe. “The ACS is 28 pages long and asks intrusive and personal questions from everything involving finances to personal hygiene. If the recipient refuses to complete the survey, they are subject to a fine. In some cases, individuals who have disregarded the ACS have received harassing phone calls and drop-in home visits by Census Bureau employees. This Amendment defunds enforcement of the criminal penalty of the survey. The ACS is an unnecessary waste and an abuse of government power with no constitutional authority.”
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of their amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill of 2015. This amendment prohibits the federal government from requiring race or ethnicity to be disclosed in connection with the purchase of a firearm. “Under the current Administration, The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) has been implementing a change to its Form 4473, which requires firearm purchasers to disclose their race and ethnicity when buying a firearm,” said Rep. Poe. “Failure to answer these questions is an ATF violation which puts gun retailers at risk and possibly out of business. American citizens should not be forced to disclose their race in order to exercise their second amendment rights. Forcing Americans to disclose their race and ethnicity in order to purchase firearms is wrong and needs to be stopped.”
06.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of the Poe-Lofgren-Massie-Conyers-Amash-Nadler-Fahrenthold-Polis-Lieu-Labrador Amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill of 2015. "After September 11th, Congress passed the Patriot Act. Under this law, the government was given an inch but took a mile," said Rep. Poe. "Americans now know that the government not only abused its Section 215 powers, but also overstepped its authority under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). These limited powers transformed into pervasive and open-ended snooping and “back door” warrantless surveillance of American citizens. The Government now wants to force US Technology companies to install “back-doors” on their products so that they can easily access them to conduct surveillance without a warrant or consent from the user. As we have learned through prior abuses, Congress needs to specifically prohibit this kind of surveillance or the Government will push the limit as far as they think they can. This amendment prevents the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation from mandating or requesting such back doors from US technology companies that can be used for surveillance. This amendment protects American’s privacy and upholds our fourth amendment rights."
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON,D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the Senate passage of the USA Freedom Act. “The USA Freedom Act is a step in the right direction but it does not go far enough,” said Rep. Poe. “I can’t go back to the people I represent and claim that this bill in its current form ends government surveillance, it does not. Surveillance reform must also address other issues like the government’s ‘backdoor’ snooping and seizure of citizens phone calls, text messages and emails through Section 702 of FISA. The USA Freedom Act addresses neither. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to end warrantless government surveillance that defies the fourth amendment right to privacy guaranteed to every American in the Constitution.”
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) issued the following statement on the signing of S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act into law by President Obama. This bill was introduced by Congressman Ted Poe and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House and in the Senate by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX). It passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support earlier this month and passed the Senate unanimously in April. “As shocking as it is in 2015, there are people living in modern day slavery in America. Human trafficking is a criminal enterprise that exists in cities across the nation, especially in my hometown of Houston, Texas. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) establishes a robust and aggressive strategy to combat human trafficking in the United States. After years of hard work in Congress on this issue, I am proud that JVTA is now law. It was a pleasure to work with my colleague Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House on this issue as well as Senator John Cornyn (R-TX). I thank the President for signing such an important and bipartisan piece of legislation. Now, the United States can work to end this egregious crime and send a global message that those who buy and sell individuals will have to answer to the law.”
05.29.2015	“Last May, the Administration struck a secret deal with the Taliban, releasing five dangerous terrorists from Guantanamo Bay in exchange for Bowe Bergdahl, a deserter. This prisoner swap was illegal. The law required the President to notify Congress 30 days in advance of any such release. Since then it has been reported that the ‘Taliban 5’ have lived comfortably in Qatar and some have even communicated with their old extremist colleagues in the Taliban. It has also been reported that terror groups have travelled to Qatar to meet with them. On Monday, these five terrorists will be free to leave Qatar and roam around the world wherever they please. There is no doubt in my mind that these five jihadists will go right back to where they came from, this time even more hell bent on killing Americans. The Administration should stop this from happening and extend the travel ban for these five extremists. Furthermore, not one more prisoner should be released from Guantanamo without explicit Congressional approval. Releasing these prisoners will only strengthen and embolden the extremist groups America and our allies on the ground in the Middle East are struggling to defeat." Congressman Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) issued the following statement on the House passage of S.178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA). JVTA passed the House with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 420-3. The bill passed the Senate unanimously in April. “In a time of seemingly endless partisan gridlock there is one thing we can all agree on: our children are not for sale,” said Congressman Poe. “It is hard to believe in the year 2015, there are people living in modern day slavery in America. But that is reality. Human trafficking is a criminal enterprise that exists in cities across the nation, especially in my hometown of Houston, Texas. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) implements a robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. After years of hard work on this issue, Congress has taken a historic and necessary step today to help end modern day slavery in America. I look forward to President Obama signing JVTA into law so that we can finally help eradicate this scourge.” “I am pleased to see this important legislation to help victims of human trafficking take another step forward,” said Senator Cornyn. “I want to thank my partners in the House of Representatives for their hard work and look forward to President Obama signing this critical bill.” “The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act will provide restitution to the survivors of human trafficking and punish those who profit from this horrific crime,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “It is a harsh reality that sexual slavery persists across America. With this legislation, Congress has taken a firm stand against the pimps and Johns and for women and children. It has been a privilege to work with Congressman Ted Poe, who as a judge learned first-hand of the destructive nature of these crimes. He has been an unyielding advocate in his work to help the survivors rebuild their lives. I look forward to President Obama signing this legislation into law.” ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 2255, a bill that would make the American Community Survey voluntary. Under the Constitution, the federal government must conduct a Census every ten years to account for the population. To do so, the decennial Census includes ten basic questions. However, the Constitution does not authorize the federal government to issue an annual, mandatory survey to 3 million Americans, called the American Community Survey (ACS). The ACS asks each recipient dozens of personal questions about mental disabilities in the home, personal financial information, whether you have a toilet and what time you leave for and return from work each day. Under current law, those who choose not to respond to the ACS are threatened with a criminal penalty. “The Federal Government has no right to force Americans to tell the government personal information that they are uncomfortable providing just because the federal government says so,” said Rep. Poe. “I have heard from countless Texans who are uncomfortable with the American Community Survey’s intrusive questions, but they feel intimidated and forced to participate because of the threat of a criminal penalty. Penalizing private citizens for not filling out a government-mandated survey is an abuse of government power.” ###
05.13.2015	Congressman Poe traveled to Azerbaijan from May 28, 2013 to May 30, 2013 on a trip that was pre-approved by the House Committee on Ethics. Prior to the travel, the Turquoise Council of Americans and Eurasians (TCAE) claimed and disclosed to both our office and the House Committee on Ethics that it was the sole sponsor of the trip. Upon his return, Congressman Poe again disclosed to the House Committee on Ethics information pertaining to the trip. One year later, the Houston Chronicle contacted our office for a story they were publishing which was the first time we had heard questions raised about the trip. Not only was our office responsive to the Houston Chronicle, we also went a step further by contacting the House Committee on Ethics, self-reporting the allegations raised by the Chronicle to the Committee and requesting that they look further into them. Six months later, the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE), a separate entity that can only investigate and refer matters to the House Committee on Ethics, opened its own independent review of the trip. Contrary to the Washington Post’s claims, Congressman Poe did cooperate with the OCE. He produced documents and provided answers to the OCE’s questions. The House Committee on Ethics then requested that the OCE cease its review because it was conducting its own investigation. As a result, we alerted OCE that we were communicating and cooperating directly with the House Committee on Ethics, the official arbiter of House ethics matters. In its report, the OCE clearly states it did not receive any evidence that the Congressman knew that TCAE was not the sole organizer or sponsor of the travel. The OCE further correctly found that “Representative Poe acted in good faith reliance on information received from the purported trip sponsor and approval from the Committee on Ethics.” In deference to the Committee’s ongoing investigation, Congressman Poe will not be making any further comment at this time.
05.11.2015	NEW YORK, NY – On Saturday, May 9, 2015, U.S Representative Ted Poe (R-TX) was among the ninety honorees who received the Ellis Island Medal of Honor from the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations-NECO. The list of honorees included: Talk Show Host Meredith Vieira, New York Yankees legend Mariano Rivera, twelve members of the U.S. Military and Washington, D.C. Police Chief Cathy L. Lanier. Texas Congressman Ted Poe is a leading advocate in Washington for limited government, free markets, low taxes and individual liberty. Prior to serving in Congress, Ted Poe served for 22 years as a criminal court judge in Houston where he garnered national media attention for his innovative sentences – dubbed “Poetic Justice.” Prior to that, he served for 8 years in the Harris County District Attorney’s Office, where he became the chief felony prosecutor and never lost a jury trial. Congressman Ted Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, and the Foreign Affairs Committee as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. An outspoken advocate on border security, he travels regularly to the southern border to meet directly with local law enforcement and residents. He also often visits our troops in Afghanistan and around the world. Congressman Ted Poe established the bipartisan Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) to advocate on behalf of victims in our nation’s capital. A strong constitutionalist, Congressman Poe stands firmly in the belief of “we the people” not “we the subjects.” Chairman of NECO Nasser J. Kazeminy states, “NECO seeks to inspire America to embrace diversity, tolerance and respect for all of its citizens by celebrating those who have given so much of themselves to the betterment of our nation and our world. Each of these honorees represents traits that I admire in great Americans: the vision of a better world for all, the tenacity to overcome challenges, and the leadership and imagination to blaze their own trail. And most importantly, they have the humility and self-reflection to appreciate the amazing opportunities that America has given them. They inspire me and we honor them so they can inspire others as well.” The Ellis Island Medals of Honor embody the spirit of America in their celebration of patriotism, tolerance, brotherhood and diversity. We recognize individuals who have made it their mission to share with those less fortunate their wealth of knowledge, indomitable courage, boundless compassion, unique talents and selfless generosity; all while maintaining the traditions of their ethnic heritage as they uphold the ideals and spirit of America. As always, NECO remains dedicated to the maintenance and restoration of America’s greatest symbol of its immigrant history, Ellis Island. Since the Medal was founded in 1986, we have honored such distinguished and diverse Americans including: six Presidents of the United States; Nobel Prize recipient Elie Wiesel, Generals Norman Schwarzkopf and Colin Powell, Hon. Hillary Clinton, Sen. John McCain, Muhammad Ali, Frank Sinatra, Barbara Walters, Mike Wallace, Quincy Jones and Mia Farrow, all who have distinguished themselves through their significant contributions to this country. The Ellis Island Medal of Honor ranks among the nation’s most prestigious awards. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have officially recognized the Ellis Island Medals of Honor, and each year the recipients are listed in the Congressional Record. # # #
05.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC- This week Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) led a bipartisan letter to House leadership urging them to bring S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act to the House floor for a vote. This letter was signed by many of the lead sponsors of the various human trafficking bills that passed the House unanimously in January including: Reps. Renee Ellmers, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Joseph Heck, Karen Bass, Mark Walker, Sean Patrick Maloney, Kristi Noem, Joyce Beatty and Gwen Moore. "In the year 2015, there are children living in captivity in America," said Rep. Poe. "As a nation, we cannot let this go on any longer and we must do everything we can to stop this slave trade. The Senate passed a strong, comprehensive piece of legislation to end this scourge 99-0, and I urge House leadership to bring this bill to the floor quickly. S. 178 incorporates ten different bills that passed the House with bipartisan support, including my bill, H.R. 181. Making the Senate compromise Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act the law of the land will be the first step to finally wiping out this scourge. It is time to protect our greatest resource, our children. They are not for sale.”
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) along with Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Congressman Thomas Massie (R-KY) introduced H.R. 2233 the End Warrantless Surveillance of Americans Act. The bill would prohibit warrantless searches of government databases for information that pertains to U.S. citizens. It would also forbid government agencies from mandating or requesting “back doors” into commercial products that can be used for surveillance. The legislation mirrors an amendment the three members offered to the USA Freedom Act, which was backed by a broad bipartisan coalition including Members of Congress and outside groups across the political spectrum. “The USA Freedom Act that passed out of the Judiciary Committee last week is an improvement over current law and a step in the right direction. But we can do more to protect the Fourth Amendment. In addition to stopping bulk data collection, Congress should also act now to stop warrantless searches under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA),” said Rep. Poe. “Right now, under Section 702 the government is allowed to snoop and spy on the content of a citizen’s phone calls, texts and emails---all without a warrant. Failure to address this gaping loophole in FISA leaves the constitutional rights of millions of Americans vulnerable and unprotected. This bill also ensures that the federal government does not force companies to enable its spying activities. The NSA has and will continue to violate the constitutional protections guaranteed to every American unless Congress intervenes. Until we fix this and make the law clear, citizens can never be sure that their private conversations are safe from the eyes of the government.” “If Congress truly wants to end bulk collections of U.S. persons data, then we must also look at the warrantless surveillance occurring under Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and Executive Order 12333,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Failing to do so all but ensures the nation’s spy agencies will continue to violate Americans’ privacy and the Fourth Amendment. I am pleased that Chairman Goodlatte has acknowledged that further reform is needed and committed the House Judiciary Committee to investigating this issue more closely in hearing, and I look forward to a productive conversation on how to finally end bulk collection and warrantless surveillance at that time.” “Surveillance under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act is arguably worse than the collection of records allowed under Section 215 of the Patriot Act,” said Rep. Massie. “Our Founding Fathers fought and died to stop this kind of warrantless search and seizure. The End Warrantless Surveillance on Americans Act is an important step toward reasserting the constitutional rights of all Americans. I look forward to continue working on this issue with Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Lofgren.”
05.01.2015	“Last night the Poe/DeFazio Amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill passed. This amendment requires the Corps of Engineers to follow the law and fully utilize all of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund by 2025. Full funding will allow the Corps to carry out its programs and prevent a further backlog for projects. This amendment works to establish funding allocations for our ports both big and small. As co-chair of the Congressional Ports Caucus, I recognize the need for proper funding of our nation’s ports and harbors to promote our economy.”
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 2126, the Cutting Costly Codes Act of 2015. This legislation will prohibit the federal government from requiring the medical community to comply with the new set of codes under the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). ICD-10, or the International Classification of Diseases, is a set of standardized billing and diagnostic codes used by doctors. Currently, the US operates under ICD-9, which contains about 13,000 codes. Under ICD-10, sits 68,000 different codes—five times the current system. This burdensome bureaucratic system will be costly to implement and as a result medical practices nationwide will suffer. According to some studies, the new codes could cost roughly between $56,000- $8 million to implement. “The new ICD-10 codes will not make one patient healthier,” said Rep. Poe. “What it will do is put an unnecessary strain on the medical community who should be focused on treating patients, not implementing a whole new bureaucratic language. Instead of hiring one more doctor or nurse to help patients, medical practices are having to spend tens of thousands just to hire a specialist who understands the new codes. Big government must get out of the way and let doctors do what they were trained to do---help people.” Texas Medical Association and Harris County Medical Society support this legislation. ###
04.24.2015	“Unfortunately, we’ve heard all too often stories of young Americans fleeing their homes and their country to try to join ISIS and other terrorist groups abroad. In many cases, these wannabe terrorists were directly recruited online through U.S. social media companies, like Twitter. In response to a request by myself and other senior members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Twitter finally updated its policies to now explicitly prohibit “threatening or promoting terrorism” and to allow users to report those who appear to violate this rule. This is a step in the right direction to stopping cyber jihad. ISIS and other designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations should not be allowed to use American companies as a free propaganda tool to radicalize thousands and recruit new jihadis."
04.24.2015	For Immediate Release April 24, 2015 Contact: Mike Morosi (Maloney) 202-225-7944 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202-225-6565 House Sponsors of Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act push House Leaders for vote on Senate-passed compromise WASHINGTON – Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) today called on House leaders to schedule a vote on the Senate-passed Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. Poe and Maloney sponsored similar legislation, which passed the House unanimously in January. “As ardent anti-human trafficking advocates who have worked for many years to combat this modern form of slavery, we strongly support the compromise bill that passed yesterday and believe that it will have broad bipartisan support in the House,” wrote Poe and Maloney. “Human trafficking is one of the fastest growing criminal industries in the United States. S. 178 contains funding desperately needed to serve and shelter human trafficking victims and train law enforcement to better identify and rescue victims, among a variety of important provisions. We are eager to pass this comprehensive bill and see it signed into law.” The full text of their letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi follows: April 23, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Minority Leader U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner and Minority Leader Pelosi: In light of the Senate’s 99-0 vote to pass S. 178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act, we urge you to swiftly bring this legislation to the House floor for a vote. As ardent anti-human trafficking advocates who have worked for many years to combat this modern form of slavery, we strongly support the compromise bill that passed yesterday and believe that it will have broad bipartisan support in the House. Human trafficking is one of the fastest growing criminal industries in the United States. The average age of children sold for sex is 13 years old. We cannot stand by and allow this to happen in our great county. S. 178 contains funding desperately needed to serve and shelter human trafficking victims and train law enforcement to better identify and rescue victims, among a variety of important provisions. The bill will change the lives of some of the most vulnerable in our society and make the United States a true leader in the fight against human trafficking. We are eager to pass this comprehensive bill and see it signed into law. We hope you will consider bringing S.178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act to the floor without delay. The survivors who are counting on the assistance that will become available to them through this legislation should not have to wait any longer. Thank you for your attention for this important issue. Sincerely, Congressman Ted Poe Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney ###
04.23.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) recently joined Texas Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) and 53 other Members of Congress in a letter to President Obama that called for transparency into the decision-making process behind Executive Order 13690, “Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard.” “Issuing an Executive Order this broad and that encompasses millions of American homes and businesses – many within my Congressional District in Harris County, Texas - should require thoughtful consideration, public input and transparency into the decision-making process,” said Poe. “Unfortunately, it seems that this decision was made without any of these critical components. I urge the President to quickly provide Congress and the American public with the details and research that the Administration consulted prior to announcing this new Executive Order. Additionally, I strongly believe that unilateral action by the President such as this Executive Order, is an abuse of power by the Executive Branch, and I believe Congress has the duty to fight such actions.”
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced H.R. 1931 the American Land Act. This bill would require the Bureau of Land Management and the National Forest System to open up about 1/3 of its land over five years for sale to the American people. The federal government currently owns 27% of the total land in the United States. This land is larger than the countries of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, Italy, United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Belgium put together. The proceeds from the sales--potentially billions--would be directly deposited into the Highway Trust Fund, making an investment in our transportation infrastructure. “It is time for the federal government to let Americans own American land. The government cannot afford its massive estate; we need to give up some of our assets to pay for desperately needed infrastructure projects”, said Poe. “Allowing Americans to buy American land would provide a way to generate new revenue without new taxes, create new jobs and stimulate economic growth. Transferring ownership of natural resources to the public would also be a more efficient way to utilize our natural assets. This is common sense.” The bill does not authorize the sale of land owned by the National Park Service or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) hosted the annual Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) awards. Each year Reps. Poe and Costa, along with other members of the bipartisan VRC, host an awards ceremony to honor outstanding individuals for their tireless efforts to support and empower victims of crime. Poe & Costa co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus in 2005. “Victims of crime are not statistics,” said Rep. Poe. “They are real people with real stories who have had something bad happen to them. Each year the VRC has the privilege of honoring the quiet heroes who dedicate their lives to assisting and advocating for victims of crime. These community warriors deserve to be recognized for their hard work.” “Today, the Victims’ Rights Caucus honors victims, survivors, and the heroes who selflessly support those who have suffered from a violent crime or domestic violence,” said Rep. Costa. “These advocates gladly assist those in need of compassion and strength. Today’s awardees have helped survivors overcome some of their darkest moments and regain their lives.” Special Recognition Award Robin Smith, Video/Action Video/Action is a not-for-profit production company that provides a voice for individuals whose stories were not often head in the mainstream media. Allied Professional Award Sergeant Jeff Kertson, Fresno County Sheriff’s Department Sergeant Kertson works to oversee numerous units for the Fresno County Sheriff’s Department including: the domestic violence, elder abuse, sexual assault, child abuse, sex offender registration, missing persons/runaways units as well as the Child Sexual Predator Program and The Central California Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force. Ed Stout Memorial Award Ms. Mary Travers Murphy, Family Justice Center of Eric County (FJCEC), Executive Director Through her work with the FJCEC, Ms. Murphy has raised funds, resources and the public profile of domestic violence victims. Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation Ms. Kerri True-Funk, Rape Advocacy, Counseling and Education Services (RACES), Executive Director Ms. True-Funk along with RACES works to reduce the occurrence of sexual assault among individuals with disabilities through empowerment and education. Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Mr. William Kellibrew, IV, William Kellibrew Foundation, Founder After facing trauma and adversity as a child Mr. Kellibrew decided to use his personal story to help others. The William Kellibrew Foundation is a community-driven partnership that advocates on breaking the cycles of violence and poverty. Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness Truckers Against Trafficking Truckers Against Trafficking is a not-for-profit group that works to educate, raise awareness and combat trafficking in the trucking and travel plaza industries. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 622 the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act with Congressman Poe’s support. This legislation would amend the Internal Revenue Code to permanently extend the provision that gives taxpayers the option to take an itemized deduction for State and local general sales taxes in lieu of an itemized deduction for State and local income taxes. The taxpayer may either deduct the actual amount of sales tax paid in the tax year, or, alternatively, an amount prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service. “Citizens in states without an income tax like my home state of Texas should enjoy the same tax benefits as the rest of the country,” said Rep. Poe. “Right now, a New Yorker can deduct their State income tax from their federal income tax. The playing field should be fair for Texans. This bill will give citizens the option to continue to deduct their sales taxes from their federal income taxes instead. Most importantly, it helps Texans keep more of their own money instead of handing it over to the IRS.”
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1803 the Veterans Back to Work Act of 2015. This legislation would make the veterans tax credit permanent and make it easier for employers to take advantage of it. There are nearly 600,000 veterans in this country who are unemployed. That is simply unacceptable. Congress previously passed a veterans tax credit to help transition our nation’s warriors back into the workforce. While well intentioned, it was temporary, had complicated paperwork and took too long for employers to receive the tax credit. The Veterans Back to Work Act seeks to fix these complications by making the tax credit permanent, reducing the paperwork, and allowing employers to have the choice to collect the credit at the end of each quarter or at the end of the year, whatever makes the most sense for them. “Our nation’s warriors have given everything and risked their lives serving and protecting the rest of us. It is our duty to help them transition back into the American work force when they return,” said Poe. “After fighting in war, the last thing a veteran should have to worry about is an unemployment line. This Veterans Back to Work Act incentivizes the hiring of our veterans with a permanent tax credit and makes the paperwork easier for businesses to do so.” ###
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX-02) and Diane Black (R-TN-06) reintroduced the FIREARM (Freedom From Intrusive Regulatory Enforcement of Arbitrary Registration Mandates) Act – legislation to prohibit the federal government from requiring race or ethnicity to be disclosed in connection with the purchase of a firearm. In 2012, the Obama Administration’s Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) quietly implemented a change to its Form 4473 which requires firearm purchasers to disclose both their race and ethnicity. Failure to answer these questions is considered an ATF violation and gun retailers could be put out of business for repeated offenses. “This requirement by the ATF is another example how this administration continually makes it harder for law-abiding citizens to possess firearms,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Forcing citizens who are lawfully purchasing guns to disclose race and ethnicity with the threat of federal prosecution if they fail to disclose is completely unnecessary. Bottom line, if a law-abiding citizen is lawfully purchasing firearms, race and ethnicity are irrelevant. It is time to stop punishing those who are following the law.” “Law abiding citizens should never have to play 20 questions with Uncle Sam just to access their fundamental right to keep and bear arms,” said Congressman Diane Black. “As a gun owner myself, I know that this is not only a Second Amendment concern, but also a privacy concern. The government has no legitimate reason to collect this information in the first place. That is why my bill would ban the ATF from requiring Americans to list their race or ethnicity in order to purchase a firearm.” The ATF’s justification for this requirement stems from a “race and ethnicity standard” devised by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) almost 20 years ago. However, as even the American Civil Liberties Union noted, “There is nothing [in ATF or OMB's website links addressing the change in policy] that supports the requirement that ATF collect race-based information. The OMB guidance merely describes what categories of race should look like if information is collected." The reintroduction of the FIREARM Act follows the success of the NRA Convention in Nashville, Tennessee which Congressman Black attended. The bill is supported by the NRA and endorsed by Gun Owners of America. Background: FIREARM Act Bill Text
03.25.2015	“Today the Army confirmed what we have suspected all along: the Administration’s claims that Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl served with honor and distinction could not be further from the truth. He served with distinction– that of being a deserter – but certainly not with honor. Last year I held a Congressional hearing in the House Terrorism Subcommittee on this topic where a member of Sergeant Bergdahl’s platoon directly told us just that--he was a deserter. The President defended his decision to swap Bergdahl for terrorists with the principle of “no man left behind.” Well it turns out that Bergdahl left his men behind. If the Administration had followed the law perhaps this hearing could have occurred prior to the prisoner swap, not after. Instead, Congress was notified after the prisoners were swapped. Not only was this decision dangerous, it was illegal. The law—which President Obama signed—states the White House was required to both brief and notify Congress 30 days before it intends to transfer any enemy combatants from Guantanamo Bay. Instead, the White House brought a deserter home, paraded his parents out in front of the media and put on a show in the Rose Garden. Meanwhile, five terrorist roam free and at least three of them have apparently tried to unite with their old terror networks. Today Americans are less safe because of this decision. Hopefully at least the Court will get it right and sentence Mr. Bergdahl to the fate he deserves.” Congressman Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism.
03.24.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced H.R. 1566, the Local Courthouse Safety Act. This legislation would provide local law enforcement with access to training, surplus equipment and resources to improve security at courthouses. Over the last five years, there has been almost one shooting per month at local courthouses across the country, including in my home state of Texas. Security at local courthouses is too often inadequate, especially in rural and suburban areas where access to security training, equipment and resources are limited. As a result, local law enforcement officers, court personnel and members of the community are put in unnecessary danger. “As a former Judge, I know that activity in local courthouses is often unpredictable,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, too many local governments around the country lack the resources needed to keep these buildings safe. That is one reason why we have seen a rise in attacks in courthouses across the nation. This legislation provides local law enforcement entities with access to surplus federal security equipment, such as metal detectors and screening devices, and authorizes a training program for law enforcement agencies to help prevent and respond to violence."
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, along with 18 other Members of Congress, sent a letter to the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, regarding the recent 2015 Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community. “On February 26, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released the 2015 Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community,” said Chairman Poe. “Notably missing from the terrorist section? Iran and Hezbollah. Iran -the largest State sponsor of terror in the world- is perhaps the greatest threat America and our allies face today. Hezbollah is Iran’s puppet terrorist arm. Both have been on this list in the past. What has changed since last year?” “I am left to conclude that it is either the official position of the Direct of National Intelligence that Iran and Hezbollah no longer pose a threat to the United States or perhaps the Administration thought it would remove them for the sake of pacifying Iran during the nuclear negotiations. If the former, then I have serious concerns about the judgment of our Director of National Intelligence. If the latter, then this Administration is making a big mistake. Appeasing the Supreme Leader of Iran and all his henchman will not work. This is a reckless foreign policy that will come at the expense of the security of America and our allies around the globe. Several of my colleagues have joined me in this letter demanding an explanation for why Iran and Hezbollah were left out. We look forward to receiving the Director’s response.”
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced H.R. 1385, the Preserving American Privacy Act. The bill seeks to ensure the privacy of American citizens by establishing specific guidelines about when and for what purposes law enforcement agencies and private individuals can use drones to conduct targeted surveillance. By 2030, an estimated 30,000 drones could be flying in American skies. Currently, the laws regarding the use of drones for surveillance are unclear and further legislation is needed to ensure drones are not used in ways that infringe on the 4th Amendment rights of private individuals. "As we enter this uncharted world of drone technology, Congress must be proactive and establish boundaries for drone use that safeguard the Constitutional rights of Americans," said Rep. Poe. "Today American can walk into their local radio shack and purchase a drone. Individuals are rightfully concerned that these new eyes in the sky (whether they are the eyes of other citizens or the eyes of the government) may threaten their privacy. It is the obligation of Congress to ensure that this does not happen. Just because Big Brother can look into someone's backyard doesn't mean it should. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." “As technology advances in new and often exciting ways, we need to ensure that it does so within the bounds of the Constitution and the Fourth Amendment,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This bill is an important measure that will help safeguard Americans’ privacy from unwarranted intrusions.”
03.18.2015	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), introduced H.R. 1415, “Jane’s Law.” This bipartisan legislation works to close loopholes that allow individuals to cross state lines after a divorce or separation proceeding in order to avoid paying court-ordered distributions. The bill’s namesake, Jane Maharam, knows the realities of this all too well. Her husband of 31 years, Robert Maharam, raided their New York home and stole marital assets like money, investments and furnishings. After a 15 year court battle, the court ordered that Robert return millions of dollars back to Jane. However, instead of returning the assets, Robert fled. As long as he does not return back to New York, Jane will never see any of what he owes her because the warrant for Robert’s arrest cannot be enforced over state lines. “Sadly, Jane’s story is not unique. It’s unfortunate that people every day in this country use this loophole to their advantage, but this would end under Jane’s Law. This much needed piece of legislation will make these lowlife evaders responsible for their crimes. No longer can they outrun the law. Much like the ways child support legislation works, under Jane’s Law, fleeing to avoid payment is a federal crime. It is time to put a stop to this shameful practice,” said Rep. Poe. “Too many Americans find themselves in the same shoes Jane Maharam was in more than 2 decades ago,” said Rep. Cohen. “By fleeing the state, her ex-husband escaped his legal responsibilities and the courts were unable to enforce the law. It is time we close that loophole and ensure Jane and others like her get the justice they deserve.”
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement: “On February 26, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released the 2015 Worldwide Threat Assessment of the US Intelligence Community. Notably missing from the terrorist section? Iran and Hezbollah. Iran (the largest State sponsor of terror in the world) is perhaps the greatest threat America and our allies face today. Hezbollah is Iran’s puppet terrorist arm. Both have been on this list in the past. What has changed since last year?” “I am left to conclude that it is either the official position of the Direct of National Intelligence that Iran and Hezbollah no longer pose a threat to the United States or perhaps the Administration thought it would remove them for the sake of pacifying Iran during the nuclear negotiations. If the former, then I have serious concerns about the judgment of our Director of National Intelligence. If the latter, then this Administration is making a big mistake. Appeasing the Supreme Leader of Iran and all his henchman will not work. This is a reckless foreign policy that will come at the expense of the security of America and our allies around the globe. I am asking my colleagues to join me in a letter to find out exactly why Iran and Hezbollah were left out.”
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- This week, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA), senior members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee sent a bipartisan letter to Twitter CEO Dick Costolo urging him to increase efforts to combat foreign terrorist organizations who are using the American social media company to fundraise, spread their propaganda and recruit new jihadists. Recently Twitter shut down 2,000 accounts. However, according to the Brookings Institution, there are approximately 46,000 active ISIS accounts on Twitter. The letter calls on Twitter to set up new streamlined procedures to counter the efforts of terrorists using social media and urges Twitter to treat terrorist content the same way they treat other objectionable content. Congressman Poe said, “Designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations should not be allowed to use American companies like Twitter as a free and instant tool to radicalize thousands of young impressionable minds throughout the world and recruit new jihadists. Groups like ISIS have successfully used social media as a way to broadcast their barbaric acts and propaganda to the world, not to mention to fundraise millions of dollars for their reign of terror. Twitter is far behind other social media companies that are combatting this threat. Twitter needs to do more. It’s time to put a stop to this cyber jihad.” Congressman Sherman said, “I recognize that Twitter has recently removed many accounts associated with terrorists, but they need to put forward a more consistent and systematic effort. Twitter has systems in place to rectify copyright and trademark infringement. The least they can do is to have similar systems in place to address terrorism. At times this may be like a game of whack-a-mole – with the moles being terrorist operatives that pop up here and there online. But, it’s far better to play the game than ignore the moles altogether.” Congressman Royce: “ISIS is recruiting on its virtual caliphate at an unprecedented and very disturbing rate. Companies need to ensure that their social media services are not being hijacked for terrorist use.” Congressman Engel: “Times have changed and so have the means by which terrorists incite violence and recruit membership. The Internet, while facilitating many revolutionary accomplishments, has also created a terrorist breeding ground that cannot be ignored. Our efforts to combat this trend requires dedication, adaptation, and cooperation. While I applaud Twitter’s recent removal of over 2,000 accounts believed to be associated with terrorist activity, this can only be considered a first step. Twitter can, and must, do more to deny groups like ISIS a forum to promote their nefarious activities.”
03.03.2015	“Today Prime Minister Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress and reiterated the sobering reality that no matter what they say, Iran’s ultimate goal is to destroy Israel and the United States. Israel is our strongest ally in the Middle East. The Administration should remember that Israel’s enemies are our enemies too. We should not turn our back on them and negotiate with Iran (a state sponsor of terror). America needs to be clear and steadfast in its efforts to combat a nuclear Iran. As we have learned from the past, playing hardball with Iran and increasing sanctions works. Now is not the time to wave the white flag. America and Israel are in this together and must work together. Our national security depends on it.”
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 881, the BAKE SALE Act. This legislation would prohibit any funds from being used to implement USDA’s new regulations on school fundraisers and bake sales during school hours. Current nutrition standards for school breakfast and lunch programs were established under the Obama Administration in accordance with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Standards for All Foods Sold in School as Required by the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, regulating all food sold in public schools. However, under this Administration the USDA adopted a rule that goes even further, extending the government’s reach to regulate any food sold at school during the school day. “The federal food police need to stay out of our schools,” said Rep. Poe. “First, the regulators came into our lunchrooms, then vending machines and now school fundraisers. For years, students and parents have used the bake sale as a way to raise funds for school trips, athletic competitions, new uniforms and other activities. Teachers in my district have come to me concerned that this new rule will prevent their students from holding various after school activities. Washington bureaucrats have no business telling any American (no matter what age) what they can and cannot eat. Not only is this rule an example of gross government overreach, it is also denying public schools funds for extra-curricular activities. Congress should not fund any efforts to implement this abuse of government power.”
02.10.2015	"Kayla Mueller was an angel. She dedicated years of her short life to helping others in the toughest of places. Her death is a sober reminder that we must not relent in our fight against ISIS. The blood of Americans is on their hands. Justice must be paid."
02.03.2015	“ISIS terrorists have released a video reportedly showing Jordanian pilot Moaz al-Kasasbeh being burned alive in a cage. The barbarity and brutality of ISIS jihadists knows no bounds. The savages did not stop there. They released the execution video on Twitter by the al-Furqan media arm of ISIS. This sort of shocking propaganda only serves to fuel ISIS and their murderous objectives. Just last week I held a hearing in my subcommittee on this very issue. Social media companies can and must do more to prevent their services from being used as a tool for terrorists. My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Jordan.” Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism.
02.03.2015	“Today the House voted overwhelmingly to repeal Obamacare. The American people do not want this disastrous healthcare law that was forcefully and unconstitutionally dumped onto them, and the House listened. I joined my colleagues last month to request that a vote be scheduled immediately to fully repeal Obamacare so that we can take the necessary steps to rebuilding a healthcare system that is patient based and cost effective. I have voted against Obamacare every time it has come to the floor and I will continue to do so. Healthcare is a decision and a choice that should be made between an individual and their healthcare provider, not by the federal government. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this legislation so the American people can be freed from the burden, flaws and failures of Obamacare.”
02.02.2015	For Immediate Release: February 2, 2015 CONTACT: Peter Whippy (Rep. Zoe Lofgren) 202-225-3072, Peter.Whippy@mail.house.gov Shaylyn Hynes (Rep. Ted Poe) 202-225-6565, Shaylyn.Hynes@mail.house.gov Ramsey Cox (Rep. Suzan DelBene) 202-225-6311, Ramsey.Cox@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. – Lawmakers introduced bipartisan legislation today updating a decades old communications privacy law to better shield Internet users and wireless subscribers from overly broad government surveillance programs. The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act, introduced by U.S. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Ted Poe (R- Texas), and Suzan DelBene (D- Wash.), modernizes the 1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) by requiring government agencies to obtain a search warrant based on probable cause prior to intercepting or forcing disclosure of electronic communications or geolocation data. The 1986 law – intended to set legal standards that law enforcement agencies must meet to access electronic communications – has failed to keep pace with rapidly evolving technology, leading to weak and convoluted privacy protections from government access to user data. As consumers and businesses increasingly use cloud computing and location-based services, the law’s standards no longer reflects the way these services are used today, nor adequately protect Americans’ right to privacy. "Fourth Amendment protections don't stop at the Internet, and Americans rightly expect Constitutional protections to extend to their online communications and location data," said Lofgren. "Establishing a warrant standard for government access to cloud and geolocation provides Americans with the privacy protections they expect, and would enable service providers to build greater trust with their users and global trading partners." “Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. Whether an individual’s property is physical or digital, it must be protected from snooping government eyes, as required under the Fourth Amendment. It's time for Washington to modernize this outdated legislation and protect individual privacy,” said Poe. “Advances in technology and the Internet have dramatically changed the way we communicate, live and work. In this constantly evolving world, Congress must be a good steward of policy to ensure our laws at least keep pace,” said DelBene. “When current law affords more protections for a letter in a filing cabinet than an email on a server, it’s clear our policies are outdated. This bill will update privacy protections for consumers while resolving competing interests between innovation, international competitiveness and public safety.” As currently written, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act does not clearly require law enforcement to obtain a warrant to access the content of Americans' online communication – instead, ECPA permits law enforcement to access content with a mere subpoena if the content is more than 180 days old. ECPA also fails to include any clear standards for law enforcement access to location information, such as tracking an individual's cell phone location. The unclear and complex standards have led to confusion in U.S. courts, a significant compliance burden for businesses, a competitive disadvantage with international businesses in countries with stronger laws against government access, and inadequate privacy for Americans. The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act fixes ECPA by applying Constitutional privacy guarantees under the Fourth Amendment to an individual's digital communications and location data while minimizing the impact on law enforcement investigations. The bill will: Require the government to obtain a warrant to access to wire or electronic communications content; Require the government to obtain a warrant to intercept or force service providers to disclose geolocation data; Preserve exceptions for emergency situations, foreign intelligence surveillance, individual consent, public information, and emergency assistance; Prohibit service providers from disclosing a user's geolocation information to the government in the absence of a warrant or exception; Prohibit the use of unlawfully obtained geolocation information as evidence; Provide for administrative discipline and a civil cause of action if geolocation information is unlawfully intercepted or disclosed. # # #
01.30.2015	“Earlier this week, ISIS-affiliated terrorists in Tripoli, Libya’s capital city, stormed a popular hotel and massacred at least ten people. Today, it was revealed that one of the deceased was American David Berry, a former U.S. Marine working for a security contractor in Libya. My condolences go out to the Berry family. Fortunately, the individuals responsible for this attack were reportedly killed during the siege. ISIS has sought to expand into numerous countries throughout the region and beyond. According to terrorism experts, Libya presents the best opportunity for ISIS domination, given the general lawlessness and instability that has besieged the country following the toppling of the dictator Gaddafi. We must not lose sight of the expanding terror threat. ISIS isn’t just in Syria and Iraq, they are growing at an alarming rate and its time the world realizes that this is a high-stakes fight.” Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) reintroduced H.R. 583, the Timely Repatriation Act of 2015, to restrict diplomatic visas to countries that deny or unreasonably delay the repatriation of a national ordered removed from the United States. Under current law, when an alien commits a serious crime in the United States he or she must be repatriated back to their country of origin. However, in many cases the home countries either delay or refuse to accept and repatriate their nationals who have been issued removal orders by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). As a result, these criminals who have been convicted of everything from petty crimes to murder are free to stay in America. In many cases they go on to commit more crime and some have even murdered our citizens. “This is one aspect of Border Security and National Security that has unfortunately slipped through the cracks,” said Rep. Poe. “We give convicted foreign criminals a get-out-of-jail-free card to live in the United States because we cannot permanently detain them and their countries of origin refuse to take them back. This is a dangerous and deadly Achilles heel in our immigration system. It is time that we offer a proper incentive to these uncooperative nations who freely take our money, and turn around and disrespect our laws. We should not be issuing diplomatic VISA’s to nations that refuse to cooperate with our government. Keeping their criminals here is endangering our citizens.”
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) issued the following statement on the House passage of the bipartisan Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. “In a time of seemingly constant partisan gridlock, there is one thing we can all agree on: our children are not for sale,” said Congressman Ted Poe. “Human trafficking is a $9.8 billion criminal enterprise that exists in cities across America. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) addresses each of the three different groups involved in the crime of human trafficking: the trafficker, the buyer and the victim. JVTA implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating those who buy sex from minors and other trafficking victims like what they are: criminals. Finally, JVTA encourages a victim-centered approach to fighting human trafficking so that victims are no longer treated as criminals. The House has once again taken action to end modern day slavery in America. I am hopeful that the bill will make it to the President’s desk.” “The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act will strengthen our hand against human trafficking and is long overdue,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY). “This legislation will attack this crime at the source by going after the Johns and the traffickers. It will also provide services to the women and girls who have been sold into sexual slavery. I thank Congressman Poe for his strength and leadership on this issue. Now that the House has taken action, I am hopeful that the Senate will do so as well.” Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act Background: Repurposes and reauthorizes a grant program to create a victim-centered model block grant to help state and local governments develop and implement comprehensive victim-centered programs to train law enforcement to rescue victims, prosecute human traffickers, and restore the lives of victims. Allows state and local human trafficking taskforces to obtain wiretap warrants within their own state courts without federal approval in order to investigate crimes of child pornography, child sexual exploitation, and human trafficking. Requires law enforcement to upload available photos of missing children into the National Criminal Information Center database and to notify the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children of any child reported missing from a foster care family home or childcare institution. Reduces demand for human trafficking by clarifying current law and encouraging police, prosecutors, judges, and juries to target and punish persons who purchase illicit sexual activities from trafficking victims as human traffickers, rather than petty criminals. Reduces affirmative defenses for persons who exploit children through interstate prostitution by requiring them to show by clear and convincing evidence, rather than a preponderance of the evidence (current law), that they believed the child to be an adult. ###
01.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), along with senior Members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, calling on the Administration to freeze aid to the Palestinian Authority in light of its provocative decision to join the International Criminal Court (ICC). “The Palestinian Authority’s calculated and provocative decision to join the International Criminal Court (ICC) is just the latest evidence that it has no desire to achieve peace with Israel,” said Rep. Poe. “Their intensions are clear: use the International Criminal Court (ICC) as a tool to wage a political war on the world stage against our ally, Israel. By allowing the Palestinian Authority to sit on the ICC, the United Nations is giving them a platform they don’t deserve. The United States must take a stand on this issue by freezing all aid to the Palestinian Authority which has shown time and again that it cannot be trusted.” Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism and a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 428, the Export American Natural Gas Act of 2015. This bipartisan bill would expedite the Department of Energy approval process for liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. Poe also introduced this bill in the 113th Congress. Recent studies, including those commissioned by the Department of Energy (DOE), indicate a net economic gain if the DOE allowed more liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. In order for US companies to export LNG, companies have to obtain approval from both the DOE and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Unfortunately, DOE has long stalled the approval of applications to export LNG. These delays have resulted in lost business for American companies and lost resources for many of our allies who desperately need an alternative source of energy. The “Export American Natural Gas Act of 2015” requires a firm deadline – 60 days – for DOE to make a decision, either approve or deny applications. If the DOE does not meet the 60 day deadline, the applications would automatically be approved. "It is time to remove bureaucratic roadblocks and take the Department of Energy out of the approval process for natural gas exports," said Rep. Poe. "Unnecessary red tape is the only thing standing in the way of the U.S. exporting a resource that it has an abundant supply of, natural gas. Exporting natural gas would grow our economy, create thousands of new jobs and help many of our allies around the world. From an energy security and foreign policy perspective, this is a no brainer. Washington should be supporting, not stonewalling, the development and exportation of this valuable, domestic resource."
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R.464, the Constitutional Check and Balance Act. This legislation authorizes members of Congress to file a lawsuit against the President if he refuses to ignore or enforce current law. “The Constitution requires that the Executive Branch enforce laws passed by the Legislative Branch,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, this Administration treats the law as a mere suggestion, picking and choosing which ones to enforce and which ones to ignore often based on convenience for its political agenda. This legislation provides an avenue for Members of Congress to hold the Administration accountable by filing an action in federal court when it fails to enforce laws passed by the Legislative Branch. This bill helps honor one of our founding principles – the system of checks and balances - and ensures that one branch of government does not become omnipotent. This is an important tool to help Congress reign in the Imperial President.” Poe is a former Judge and a Member of the House Judiciary Committee. ###
01.21.2015	In November, the American people had a choice between President Obama’s failed policies and a new direction. When given that choice, they elected a historic conservative majority in both chambers of Congress. They rejected the failed big government policies that have put a burden on families and businesses across the country and increased our debt. President Obama missed the November memo. Instead, he delivered a divisive speech full of recycled lofty promises, which would be paid for how? By raising taxes and spending more. America can’t spend and tax its way into prosperity. This State of the Union was an opportunity for the President to explain how he will work with America’s new Congress to better our country and end gridlock in Washington. He didn’t do that. Instead, he issued veto threats on bills that have not even been voted on. During the speech, President Obama even threatened to veto bills on issues that the American people support, like undoing his unconstitutional executive amnesty, increasing sanctions on our enemy, Iran (a state sponsor of terror), and repealing the unaffordable, disastrous nationalized healthcare system. This legacy-driven speech focused on touting cherry-picked numbers and failed to lay out realistic strategies for the real problems we face today, like how to defeat ISIS. Instead, the President declared that the “Shadow of Crisis” is over in America and the “State of the Union is strong.” We are not there yet, but Congress will do everything in its power to make this a reality.
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, issued the following statement on H. Res 37, which officially condemns the terrorist attacks in Paris and offers condolences to all of those affected. The resolution passed the House unanimously by voice vote. “Today the House of Representatives sent the people of France a message—we stand with you. America knows too well the pain inflicted by terrorism. This was not just an attack on a magazine; it was an assault on the people of France and all of the values for which they stand, including free speech, free press and freedom of religion. France is our first ally, and our countries are united in combatting the threat of radical Islamic extremism. This extreme and inhumane ideology is spreading throughout Europe, the United States and beyond. There are many more home-grown or imported jihadists around the world who are plotting to attack once again and take more innocent lives. Together we will do everything in our power to make sure they will fail. Je Suis Charlie.” ###
01.15.2015	“This week I joined my colleagues in the House to request that a vote be immediately scheduled to fully repeal Obamacare. From increased costs to lost jobs and poor coverage, the American people are feeling the pain of this disastrous law. Healthcare decisions should be made between individuals and their doctors, not the federal government or an unelected bureaucratic board. Last Congress, the House voted over 50 times for repeal of this law. Now, with a historic conservative majority in the House and control of the Senate, is the time to send a bill fully repealing the law to the President’s desk.”
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Congressman Diane Black (TN- 6) and Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21) introduced H.R. 300 the Support More Assets, Resources and Technology on the Border Act of 2015, also known as the SMART Border Act of 2015. This legislation which was previously introduced last Congress outlines a robust border protection strategy and includes several measures to bolster the Federal Government’s assistance in achieving operational control of the U.S. southern border. H.R 300 sets up a process for a Congressional vote to certify whether or not operational control of the border has been achieved 90 days after DHS reports to Congress on this goal. If Congress does not certify that operational control has been achieved, the bill sets up a process for hiring an additional 1,500 CBP officers and a short term deployment of the National Guard until operational control is achieved. “Washington bureaucrats have falsely preached that the border is secure for years,” said Congressman Poe. “In reality, a majority of the southern border territory is controlled by someone other than the United States. Border patrol and local law enforcement do the best they can with the resources they’ve got, but they need more help from the federal government. Washington’s continued failure protect the border threatens both the security of our people and the sovereignty of our nation. Any immigration reform efforts will be moot without making border security a reality. The SMART Border Act incorporates several common sense reforms that will ramp up support from the federal government and charge Congress, not unelected bureaucrats, with determining if and when operational control is achieved.” “President Obama has talked at length about the need to ‘reform’ our immigration laws – but real reform starts with securing our border,” said Congressman Black. “Today’s broken border system puts our national security at risk and does nothing to stem the tide of illegal immigration. I am proud to join Reps. Poe and Smith in introducing the SMART Border Act which will hold the Obama Administration accountable for doing its jobs and protecting our homeland. In the absence of leadership from the White House, Congress must act to address our border crisis. This measure will do just that.” “Americans, especially in Texas, continue to call on Congress to secure the border,” said Rep. Smith. “The SMART Act responds to this call by securing the border and enforcing our interior immigration laws. It sets a deadline for securing the border. And it requires the Department of Homeland Security to implement the biometric entry-exit tracking system to combat those who stay in the country after their visas expire. The SMART Act restores accountability and helps border states better protect themselves from the scourge of illegal border crossings. “The solution to our nation’s border problems is neither complex nor complicated – it’s common sense. We need to enforce the laws currently on the books and secure the border before any other immigration changes are considered.” Major Provisions of The SMART Border Act: Requires the Secretary of DHS to achieve operational control of the border within one year of enactment and submit a report on this achievement to the Comptroller General of the United States. Requires the GAO to submit a report to Congress three months after DHS attests to full border security in consultation with state and local officials along the international border between the US and Mexico including border sheriffs, mayors of border towns and cities, chambers of commerce in border areas, farmers and ranchers and associated farming and ranching organizations in border areas, community organizations in border areas, state law enforcement agencies and border state governors. Within 90 days of the receipt of these reports, Congress has the option to vote on a joint resolution of disapproval of the report if they believe the border is not under full operational control. Should the vote not occur, the report and certification will be deemed passed for purposes of the act. Requires GAO to submit annual reports on the status of operational control of the US border. Mandates that DOD make 10,000 National Guard troops available for deployment upon request from border state governors until operational control is achieved. Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to deploy “smart border technology” (such as seismic detectors and UAV’s) to areas of the border in which operational control has not been achieved. Directs DOD to use its current 257a authority to transfer used military equipment to eligible Federal, State, and local agencies with a preference toward border security applications. Eligible equipment will include surveillance drones, night vision equipment, Humvees and other applicable equipment that can be used for border security purposes. Mandates that DHS hire 1500 new CBP agents if it is determined that operational control of the border has not been achieved. Creates a $10 million grant program (offset) through DHS to pay for border security infrastructure. (cell phone towers, signal boosters etc.) Creates a grant program (offset) through DHS to local sheriffs’ offices along the international border for the purpose of hiring additional deputies, training, patrol vehicles and weapons. Mandates that CBP only count an individual who has been apprehended on the border once in terms of their reporting requirements for counting apprehensions. Mandates that the Secretary of DHS fully implement US VISIT (entry-exit) system within two years of enactment. Mandates that the system be used at all entry/exit points in the US and that the program be biometric. Defines the term ‘operational control' as a condition in which all illegal border crossers are apprehended and narcotics and other contraband are seized. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) introduced the bipartisan Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. The bill passed the house unanimously last year. “In a time of seemingly constant partisan gridlock there is one thing we can all agree on: our children are not for sale,” said Congressman Poe. “Human trafficking is a criminal enterprise that exists in cities across America, especially in my hometown of Houston, Texas. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) addresses each of the three different groups involved in the crime of human trafficking: the trafficker, the buyer and the victim. JVTA implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating those who buy sex from minors and other trafficking victims like what they are: criminals. Finally, JVTA encourages a victim-centered approach to fighting human trafficking so that victims are no longer treated as criminals. Last year the House took historic steps to end modern day slavery in America. I am hopeful that this Congress the bill will make it to the President’s desk.” “The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act will strengthen our hand against human trafficking and is long overdue,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY). “This legislation will attack this crime at the source by going after the Johns and the traffickers. It will also provide services to the women and girls who have been sold into sexual slavery. I thank Congressman Poe for his strength and leadership on this issue. We passed the bill in the House last year. This year, I hope we can get it through the Senate as well.” Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act Background: Repurposes and reauthorizes a grant program to create a victim-centered model block grant to help state and local governments develop and implement comprehensive victim-centered programs to train law enforcement to rescue victims, prosecute human traffickers, and restore the lives of victims. Allows state and local human trafficking taskforces to obtain wiretap warrants within their own state courts without federal approval in order to investigate crimes of child pornography, child sexual exploitation, and human trafficking. Requires law enforcement to upload available photos of missing children into the National Criminal Information Center database and to notify the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children of any child reported missing from a foster care family home or childcare institution. Reduces demand for human trafficking by clarifying current law and encouraging police, prosecutors, judges, and juries to target and punish persons who purchase illicit sexual activities from trafficking victims as human traffickers, rather than petty criminals. Reduces affirmative defenses for persons who exploit children through interstate prostitution by requiring them to show by clear and convincing evidence, rather than a preponderance of the evidence (current law), that they believed the child to be an adult. ###
01.12.2015	Washington, DC – Sixteen members of the Texas Delegation – Congressman Brian Babin, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Blake Farenthold, Chairman Bill Flores, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman Will Hurd, Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman Michael McCaul, Congressman Randy Neugebauer, Congressman Pete Olson, Congressman Ted Poe, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman Pete Sessions, Chairman Lamar Smith, and Chairman Mac Thornberry, issued the following joint statement supporting legislation to fight against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty plan. “As members of the Texas delegation, we will continue to stand firmly against any action that erodes our constitutional values, degrades our nation’s rule of law, and circumvents the legislative process. Since the President announced his amnesty plan, we have been vigorously fighting against his unconstitutional actions and have been working together to find effective solutions to win this battle. “Last December House Republicans vowed to take up legislation in the second week of the 114th Congress to fight the President’s illegal executive fiat. Today the Republicans of the Texas Delegation join together in support of legislation that is scheduled to be considered by the House this week that stops the President’s amnesty plan and reflects our conservative values. This legislation would prevent the President from enforcing his executive amnesty plan by barring any funds from being used to carry out his executive actions or any other related illegal executive action that he might take in the future. While we recognize the value that legal immigrants bring to our nation and the economy, we must ensure that our laws are followed. We support this legislation because it enforces the law, secures our border, and reinforces the oath that we have taken as legislators to preserve and protect the Constitution. “As Members of Congress, we have the responsibility to effectively work within the constraints of the Constitution and the limits of the law. As members of the Texas delegation, we have the responsibility to act in the best interest of the people of Texas. This week we will uphold both of those responsibilities by preserving our nation’s rule of law, fighting for the people of Texas, and combating the President’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions.” ###
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism issued the following statement on the deadly Boko Haram terrorist attack in Nigeria: “Boko Haram’s recent rampage in northeast Nigeria may have killed as many as 2,000 innocent Nigerians. If these horrific numbers are verified, it will stand as one of the most heinous acts by a terrorist organization in recent history. Boko Haram is not just another terrorist group anymore; they are a scourge that must be wiped off the map. But efforts to date have proved ineffective. We must find a better way to work with the Nigerian government before Boko Haram succeeds in massacring more innocents. As Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, I have been working tirelessly to call attention to the evils of terrorist organizations like Boko Haram, and I continue to urge the President to formulate a comprehensive global terrorism strategy to combat this threat. Twice in one week now innocent lives have been lost to senseless and cowardly acts of terror.”
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, introduced H.R.237 the FTO Passport Revocation Act. This legislation would authorize the revocation or denial of passports and passport cards to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations. “Recent deadly terrorist attacks in France, Australia and Canada have reminded us that radical Islamic terrorists are ready and eager to take their murderous rampage worldwide,” said Rep. Poe. “The threat to America from these groups has never been greater. Unfortunately, some of our citizens have travelled to the terrorist hotbeds in Syria and beyond to help extremist groups accomplish that goal. The Benedict Arnold traitors who have turned against America and joined the ranks of foreign radical terrorist armies should lose all rights afforded to our citizens. This bill will help law enforcement locate these individuals by preventing them from travelling internationally so that they can be captured and brought to justice. Most importantly, this legislation will prevent turned Americans from entering the United States undetected. These people are not returning to America to open coffee shops; they are coming back to kill. We must stop them from coming back at all.” Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism.
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, the House passed HR3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. This legislation approves TransCanada’s application to construct and build the pipeline bringing oil and jobs to Americans. This is the 10th time the House has approved the Keystone Pipeline with Congressman Poe’s support. “The construction of the Keystone pipeline will create jobs, increase our energy and national security making Middle Eastern turmoil irreverent. This project has been stonewalled and held hostage to petty politics for far too long. The House has once again acted, I urge the Senate and the President to do the same.” Congressman Poe previously introduced H.R. 3, the Keystone For a Secure Tomorrow Act (K-FAST) that would allow Congress to directly approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.
01.09.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, D.C. - On Tuesday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced H.R. 236 , the Foreign Counterfeit Prevention Act. The legislation allows Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to exchange important information with rights holders in order to protect intellectual property (IP) rights and to uphold the integrity of trade. Each day thousands of counterfeit products come through our nation’s borders and ports of entry. Given the sheer volume of fraudulent products and the alarming sophistication of counterfeiters and pirates, it is often difficult to tell the real from the fake. When counterfeit goods successfully enter the U.S., American workers who make and design the legitimate goods lose. “Right now, CBP officers are on the front lines of trade enforcement, but they are not allowed to share information with the people most knowledgeable about the authenticity of their products the right holders,” said Rep. Poe. “Instead, they are faced with the nearly impossible task of inspecting all of the counterfeit and potentially dangerous goods ñ from pharmaceutical drugs to movies, blow dryers and video games - to determine what is genuine and what is counterfeit. We are setting them up for failure. This broken system is hurting American designers and manufacturers.” “It’s clear that CPB should have the authority to share the information needed to block suspected counterfeit physical products,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Doing so will protect American businesses and consumers from harm. When consumers and companies are duped into receiving goods they never intended to purchase, this can not only damage their product or service, but when those products affect public safety and health, it can be incredibly dangerous.” Background For many years, CBP routinely sought the assistance of trademark and copyright owners to authenticate suspected counterfeit or pirated products detained at the border. Unfortunately, after a questionable legal interpretation of the Trade Secrets Act, CBP directed field staff in 2008 to redact all identifying markings and codes before sending a digital image to the right holder to authenticate the product. H.R. 236 provides a permanent remedy to this serious enforcement deficiency by clarifying that it is not a violation of the Trade Secrets Act for CBP officers to provide information and samples, including bar codes and identifying marks, to the right holder. It also appropriately includes pirated goods and circumvention device violations. This legislation assures that CBP can continue to seek useful input from right holders to interdict dangerous counterfeit products before they enter the U.S. market. Likewise, the information sharing authorized by the bill ensures that genuine goods held for examination by CBP will be promptly identified so that authentic shipments will not be delayed from reaching the American consumer markets.
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Diane Black (TN-6) reintroduced the Separation of Powers Act. This legislation would prohibit the use of funds that would grant deferred action or other immigration relief to those who are not lawfully present in the United States. “Too many times has the President defied Congress to unilaterally implement his own agenda. In his latest effort to completely rewrite our laws, the President has decided to grant amnesty and work permits to millions of foreign nationals. Sadly, it is not the people that have motivated the President’s illegal act, it is purely politics. What this legislation would do, would allow Congress to exercise its intended role, and ‘check’ the out-of-control White House that has decided to simply pick and choose parts of the Constitution that they like,” said says Rep. Poe. “This timely piece of legislation is needed to protect Americans from a lawless administration and remind the President of his Constitutional duties,” said Rep. Poe. “President Obama’s end-run around Congress on immigration is an affront to the Constitution and disrespects the sacrifices of countless legal immigrants. Congress must do everything possible to stop this backdoor power grab in its tracks. By cutting off funding for the President’s lawless overreach, we can send a clear message that – despite his illusions – the President cannot simply make up his own laws. I am proud to join Congressman Poe in reintroducing this legislation to combat the President’s actions and restore the balance of power outlined in the Constitution,” said Rep. Black. The Separation of Powers Act: 1. Prohibits any funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to grant parole or deferred action to any alien other than for reasons permitted under current law; and 2. Prohibits any funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to provide work permits or green cards to aliens who are currently unlawfully in the U.S.
01.07.2015	“This cowardly terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo satarical newspaper in Paris is a reminder to us all that the threat from terrorists remains real. Terrorists continue to interfere with and attempt to disrupt our lives wherever and whenever they can. While we mourn the dead and send our deepest sympathies to the families of those killed, incidents such as these serve as constant reminders that we must remain vigilant. Those responsible for this heinous act must be brought to justice.”
12.18.2014	"Today, the European Union did an about-face of the worst kind, reversing their designation of Hamas as a terrorist organization. The General Court of the EU found that the original decision to include Hamas as a terrorist organization was made in haste based on news and media reports and not a “concrete examination” of their acts. This could not be further from the truth. Hamas is a terrorist organization. Recognizing its political legitimacy would be rewarding terrorists for being terrorists. A legitimate political actor does not use terrorism for political gain. Hamas has not disavowed terrorism; it has embraced it. A legitimate political actor does not call for the wiping out of an entire people. Hamas not only refuses to recognize the state of Israel, it publicly calls for its annihilation and the annihilation of all Jews around the world. Although this unfortunate decision by the EU may breathe new life into Hamas, an appeal must be made as soon as possible to ensure that the Gaza-based group remains on the terror list. The world must stand with Israel and strongly oppose EU actions to legitimize a terrorist group that is masquerading as a legitimate political organization."
12.17.2014	“I am honored to continue serving as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade for the 114th Congress. Faced with determined and bold enemies like ISIS and Al Qaeda, our nation has yet to develop a clearly defined strategy to combat these threats. At the same time, Iran marches towards a nuclear bomb. Now is not the time to ease sanctions or give concessions for a faux diplomatic victory. The possibility of concluding two regional free trade agreements in both the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership means that we have the opportunity to stop the spread of communist like economic principles and expand the free market system like never before, all while injecting billions of dollars into our economy. I look forward to the TNT Subcommittee continuing to lead on these issues and to provide oversight on the Administration’s policies. I am grateful to Chairman Ed Royce for this opportunity and appreciate his leadership over the full committee.” TNT Subcommittee Jurisdiction The subcommittee has oversight and legislative jurisdiction over U.S. efforts to manage and coordinate international programs to combat terrorism (as coordinated by the Department of State and other agencies), and efforts to bring international terrorists to justice. With the concurrence of the Chairman of the full Committee, it may conduct oversight of, and consider legislation pertaining to, nonproliferation matters involving nuclear, chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destruction, except for legislation involving the Foreign Assistance Act, the Arms Export Control Act, the Export Administration Act, and sanctions laws pertaining to individual countries and the provision of foreign assistance (which is reserved to the full Committee). The subcommittee may conduct oversight of matters relating to: international economic and trade policy; commerce with foreign countries; international investment policy; the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the Trade and Development Agency; commodity agreements; and special oversight of international financial and monetary institutions; the Export-Import Bank, and customs. With the concurrence of the Chairman of the full Committee, it may exercise legislative jurisdiction over measures related to export promotion and measures related to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the Trade and Development Agency.
12.16.2014	“Taliban gunmen stormed a military-run school in the Pakistani city of Peshawar on Tuesday, killing nearly 150 innocent civilians according to reports. The overwhelming majority of the victims were students at the school—children and teenagers in grades 1-10. This cowardly act was carried out by the Pakistani Taliban or TTP. For years, the Pakistani military cut deals with the TTP to avoid long hard battles and messy political infighting. This is the reason why you cannot negotiate with terrorists. The TTP should have been wiped out years ago when it was in everyone’s interest to do so. The world should track down these child killers and eliminate them. My thoughts and prayers go out to all of the grieving families who experienced loss in this terrible tragedy.” Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 (the so-called “CRomnibus”).“Today the House voted on a continuing resolution to fund the government through September. While there are many important provisions that were included in this appropriations package, such as cutting the IRS’s budget and supporting our ally, Israel, I could not support a bill that included funding for the President’s illegal and unconstitutional action: granting legal status to millions of people without the consent of Congress. This bill gave the President the rubber stamp he needed to fund his executive amnesty, and I could never support that.” “Before each vote Congress takes, there is always a procedural vote to establish the rules for debate for both sides. Today, I voted ‘yes’ on the rule for this appropriations bill. Why? Because a vote against the rule would have been a vote to block debate on this legislation. I believe this bill needed to be debated out in the open for the American people to see and for the American people to know where their representatives stood. Hiding behind a procedural vote is an easy way for politicians to not let people know where they really stand. I have been opposed to this bill from the start and welcomed the chance to debate it and vote against it.”###
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Every day the intelligence community goes to work to protect Americans. They risk their lives on covert battlefields all around the world to prevent another attack on America. Thanks in part to their efforts, there has not been another attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. Today our enemies are as strong as they have ever been, and we continue to rely on the CIA and the intelligence community to keep us safe. Unfortunately, in their final days in power, Senate Democrats are suddenly releasing a report that criticizes the CIA and focuses exclusively on Bush-era interrogation methods six years after President Bush left office. Why now? There is no question that the release of this report is politically-motivated, self-serving and legacy-driven. The release of today’s report will not make Americans safer. What it will do is almost certainly put our citizens and service-members around the world in even greater danger. The terrorists will use this report as justification for murdering Americans and as enticement to recruit more terrorists. The enemies that we face behead our citizens abroad and are determined to attack us at home. Now more than ever, we must support, not weaken, the people who have kept us safe for 13 years. Congressman Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
12.08.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2901, the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act authored by Congressmen Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Ted Poe (R-TX). The Senate is expected to take action quickly on the bill, sending it to the President’s desk. Once made law, the Water for the World Act will strengthen and refine the implementation of the Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act to ensure that water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) programming is not only elevated in a way that helps leverage the impact of other development assistance, but that it is targeted to help the world’s poorest, and is more effective, with long-term, sustainable impacts. “It is unacceptable that in the year 2014 there are women who are still forced to walk miles to fetch water from polluted rivers infected with waste, parasites and other insects,” said Poe. “This ought not to be. Water is key to just about every kind of development. If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out. I commend my colleagues in the House on both sides of the aisle for passing this bipartisan bill that will make U.S. water aid more efficient and effective. We have it within our power to fix this and make water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be. Today Congress took one step further towards doing so.” “It’s been almost a decade since we passed the Water for the Poor Act, which has helped millions of people around the world access clean water and sanitation,” said Blumenauer. “Since then, we have worked nonstop in a purely bipartisan fashion to expand and improve international water aid. Working with my friend, Ted Poe, and dedicated advocates, we have shown that politics stops at water and that Congress can come together to pass meaningful, substantive bills when put aside our differences for the good of the country and the world.” “The global safe drinking water and sanitation challenge is 100% solvable,” said John Oldfield, CEO of WASH Advocates. “This pivotal piece of legislation - passed with strong bipartisan support - ensures that water and sanitation programs will be implemented in a fashion that is increasingly viable in technical and financial terms over the long run. More children will carry schoolbooks instead of water, and more people in Africa, Asia, and Latin America will lead longer, healthier lives.” "Through our work in poor countries around the world, WaterAid has seen the transformative impact of access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene,” said Lisa Schechtman, director of policy and advocacy for WaterAid. “These services are basic, lifesaving, efficient and effective. Yet, much more needs to be done to meet the needs of 2.5 billion people living without a decent toilet, and suffering the consequences--from watching children die of preventable diarrhea, to heightened risk of sexual violence. Thanks to the leadership of Congressmen Poe and Blumenauer, the House has taken a huge step in passing Water for the World. We cannot let this momentum go to waste." “The Water for the World Act is a critical piece of the poverty puzzle, ensuring that the United States stays focused on helping those who don’t have access to clean water, proper sanitation and hygiene,” said Lisa Bos, senior policy advisor for World Vision. “World Vision and its advocates, who have been mobilizing in support of H. R. 2901 for the last year and a half, are grateful for the House’s support of this bill and urge swift action in the Senate.” "Global Citizens have taken tens of thousands of actions over the past year in support of the Water for the World Act. Today we were thrilled to see House leadership hold a vote on the bill and hear Members of Congress to raise their voices in support of increased access to water and sanitation for people around the world,” said Justine Lucas, US Country Director of the Global Poverty Project. "We commend Reps. Blumenauer and Poe for their tireless efforts to ensure that U.S. foreign aid programs bring effective water, sanitation and hygiene programming to the poorest individuals around the globe,” said Sam Worthington, President and CEO, of InterAction.“In an era plagued by seemingly endless political gridlock, their bipartisan leadership is a reminder that current global challenges can be addressed in a meaningful way. The U.S. Senate now must act quickly and follow suit." Currently, nearly 800 million people lack access to clean water. An astounding 2.5 billion people worldwide live without access to proper sanitation. This adds to the spread of disease, such as Ebola, and death as much as any other factor in the world. Every day, women and girls spend a combined 200 million hours collecting water, keeping them from school, work, and family. There are over 260 river basins that cross at least one international border, making the management of this finite resource – without conflict – one of our greatest national security challenges. We need only look at the very recent history in Syria for proof, where severe droughts played a key role in the initial uprisings. ###
11.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement: “Another deadline has come and gone and once again Iran wins. The United States and our allies are being played. Restarting the clock once again gives Iran the time it needs to make its nuclear ambitions a reality. The US must be clear and unequivocal: there will be no reductions in sanctions without verified steps to show that Tehran is abandoning, not just freezing, its nuclear weapons program.” Poe is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade.
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Diane Black (TN-6)introduced the Separation of Powers Act. This legislation would prohibit the use of funds for granting deferred action or other immigration relief to aliens not lawfully present in the United States. “Time and again this lawless administration has defied Congress in order to unilaterally implement its own agenda,” said Rep. Poe. “The President’s latest edict announcing that he will disregard immigration law, rewrite the rules and grant amnesty and work permits to millions of foreign nationals is just the latest illegal act. These actions are motivated by politics, not people. This legislation will allow Congress to exercise its 'check' on an out-of-control White House that treats the Constitution as a mere suggestion, not the law of the land.” “President Obama will regret this decision,” said Congressman Black. “The American public has loudly voiced their objections to the President circumventing Congress like this, and now President Obama has ignored the will of the people and set a terrible precedent for future Administrations. In doing so he has also reversed his own previous position on the limits of his power, further degrading his credibility and disgracing his Administration. My colleagues and I will explore our options to stop this overreach and restore the proper Constitutional balance to our government – this legislation is an important start.” The Separation of Powers Act: 1. Prohibits any funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to grant parole or deferred action to any alien other than for reasons permitted under current law; and 2. Prohibits any funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to provide work permits or green cards to aliens who are currently unlawfully in the U.S.
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the House Foreign Affairs Committee's passage of the Paul Simon Water for the World Act of 2013: “When we are thirsty, we walk three feet to the nearest faucet or grab a bottle of water out of the fridge. Sadly, in the year 2014, there are over 750 million people without access to clean water. This bill uses taxpayer dollars more efficiently and effectively and makes water the priority it should be in any development discussion. Everyone should have access to clean water, and no one on Earth should be assaulted trying to obtain it. I applaud my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for recognizing the importance of this issue and remain hopeful that the bill will pass both chambers before the end of the 113th Congress.”
11.18.2014	“The attacks this morning that killed 3 Americans and a Briton while they were worshiping in a Jerusalem synagogue are acts of vicious cowardice. The subsequent celebration of the attacks over loudspeakers in the Palestinian-controlled Gaza Strip is a sign that terrorism is not just a problem of a couple of lone rats but is supported by an entire infrastructure in Palestine that has close ties to the senior Palestinian leadership. We must recognize evil for what it is and counter it with swift justice.”
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement on the House of Representatives vote to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. The bill passed the House in a bipartisan vote of 252-161. “It took less time to win World War II than it has for this Administration to approve the Keystone Pipeline. This project should be a no-brainer for America, but sadly it has been continually delayed due to politics. The obstructionists in the Administration at the mercy of the environmental lobby have stonewalled this pipeline for far too long. The pipeline would bring in almost as much oil as America gets from Saudi Arabia. It would create at least 100,000 jobs in its lifetime, including 20,000 immediate construction and manufacturing jobs. Pipelines are proven to be an environmentally safe way to transport energy. The House has acted. It is time for the Senate and the President to do the same. Let’s create jobs, bring energy to the United States and make Middle Eastern politics irrelevant to our national security.” Congressman Poe previously introduced The Keystone For a Secure Tomorrow Act (K-Fast). K-Fast would allow Congress to directly and immediately approve the permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline. ###
10.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on a federal judge’s decision to dismiss all charges in a lawsuit brought by True the Vote, a voter integrity non-profit organization that was aggressively targeted by the IRS. “American Citizens have a right to publically disagree with government without the threat of being targeted by those in positions of power. The Judge’s ruling allows carte blanche for this type of politically motivated bullying by the IRS to continue. When Congress returns, I will introduce the “First Amendment Protection Act” to provide a right of action to citizens who find themselves in the same situation as Catherine Engelbrecht and her organization True the Vote. I stand behind True the Vote in any further action they may take to fight this unjust ruling.”
10.24.2014	“I am very concerned that we are not doing enough to get the MEK out of Iraq. The MEK are Iranians stuck in a camp in Iraq because they oppose the Supreme Leader of Iran. The Iraqi government has capitulated time and again to the Supreme Leader by allowing armed militants to attack the MEK camp, even though the MEK voluntarily gave up their weapons and have no way to defend themselves. Dozens have died in this inexcusable brutality. The MEK has given us valuable information about Iran’s nuclear program and simply wants freedom for all Iranian people. We need to do more to resettle the MEK in another country besides Iraq. They are not safe there.”
10.06.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: CONTACT: October 6, 2014 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202- 225-6565 Bipartisan Effort in House Urges Pro Sports Leagues to Adopt Stronger Policies Against Abuse and Assault Washington, DC – Today, Co-Chairs of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Jim Costa (D-CA), along with Representatives Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), and Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), led a bipartisan effort to urge the major U.S. sports leagues to review and strengthen their policies regarding domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse. The Representatives were joined by 53 other Members of Congress in sending letters to the “Big Five” sports leagues: the National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Hockey League, and Major League Soccer. The letters come in the wake of a number of allegations against professional athletes committing acts of violence and abuse against women and children. “Professional sports leagues have a responsibility that goes beyond ticket sales and royalties. Our society, for better or worse, idolizes its athletes. While domestic violence was once seen as a “family issue,” we’ve made some progress as a society,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, as recent incidents show, we still have a long way to go. Professional sports leagues need to put policies in place that send a strong message: those who commit violence against women will not get away with it.” "As a society, we have a responsibility to work toward a future free from violence against women and children,” said Rep. Costa. “Our nation's professional sports leagues have the opportunity to use their platform to help lead this effort. I am hopeful that the leagues will work with our nation’s top victim advocates and take the strongest possible stand against these serious crimes.” In part, the Members wrote, “We urge you in the strongest possible terms to use your profound platform to move our society toward a future where violence against women and children is not acceptable. By ensuring that the leagues policies and practices take the strongest possible stand against these crimes, everyone in America will understand that no one who commits violence against women and children can get away with it." “Domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse are serious issues and they deserve thorough scrutiny and serious discussion. Pro sports leagues are in a unique position to address issues like these, as they have the means to influence a wide range and great number of people,” stated Rep. Hartzler. “Violent crimes of any nature are tragic and they must stop.” “Our nation’s professional sports leagues can and should work proactively to prevent domestic violence, sexual assault and child abuse,” said Rep. Maloney. “This effort should extend beyond athletes and into the broader community. Violence against women and children can never be tolerated and sports leagues can be valuable players in sending that message.” ###
10.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to Dr. Frieden, Director of the Center for Disease Control (CDC), regarding the recently confirmed case of Ebola in the United States. In the letter, Poe calls on the CDC to recommend that the President invoke his authority under 42 U.S.C. 265 to prohibit non-essential travel to Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea by all American citizens, resident aliens, and foreign nationals attempting entry into the United States, until this current outbreak is brought under control. “The health of our citizens should be the main priority of our government,” said Rep. Poe. “Fortunately, there is a law already on the books with the very purpose of containing the spread of diseases into our country. The time to invoke this law to ensure Americans are not exposed to this deadly disease is now, not after the disease is spread even further within our borders.” LETTER Dear Dr. Frieden, It is a serious concern for my constituents and I that there is now a confirmed case of Ebola in Dallas, Texas. While I am confident that the health practices that are in place in the United States will be effective to prevent a major outbreak, I remain concerned that it appears that Americans are still making non-essential trips to the affected areas despite the public warnings against such travel. I believe that the recent Ebola case in Dallas highlights the fact that non-essential travel to the affected region is putting Americans at unnecessary risk. I have nothing but respect for the American military and medical volunteers that are operating in Liberia and the affected region right now. I am confident that the proper procedures have been put in place to prevent transmission to and from those groups. However, I do question why other Americans not in these groups would still travel to the region and whether or not they could become infected and bring the infection home with them. Given the severity of this threat, I request that the Centers for Disease Control consider recommending to the President that he use his powers under 42 U.S.C. Title 42 Sec. 265 to prohibit non-essential travel to Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea by all American citizens, resident aliens, and foreign nationals attempting entry into the United States, until this current outbreak is brought under control. The health and safety of the American population should always be the primary consideration in situations like this. Sincerely, TED POE Member of Congress STATUTE 42 U.S.C. United States Code, 2011 Edition Title 42 - THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE CHAPTER 6A - PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE SUBCHAPTER II - GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES Part G - Quarantine and Inspection Sec. 265 - Suspension of entries and imports from designated places to prevent spread of communicable diseases From the U.S. Government Printing Office, www.gpo.gov §265. Suspension of entries and imports from designated places to prevent spread of communicable diseases Whenever the Surgeon General determines that by reason of the existence of any communicable disease in a foreign country there is serious danger of the introduction of such disease into the United States, and that this danger is so increased by the introduction of persons or property from such country that a suspension of the right to introduce such persons and property is required in the interest of the public health, the Surgeon General, in accordance with regulations approved by the President, shall have the power to prohibit, in whole or in part, the introduction of persons and property from such countries or places as he shall designate in order to avert such danger, and for such period of time as he may deem necessary for such purpose. (July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, §362, 58 Stat. 704.) Transfer of Functions Office of Surgeon General abolished by section 3 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, eff. June 25, 1966, 31 F.R. 8855, 80 Stat. 1610, and functions thereof transferred to Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1966, set out as a note under section 202 of this title. Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare redesignated Secretary of Health and Human Services by section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88 which is classified to section 3508(b) of Title 20, Education. Delegation of Functions For assignment of functions of President under this section, see section 3 of Ex. Ord. No. 13295, Apr. 4, 2003, 68 F.R. 17255, set out as a note under section 264 of this title.
09.19.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the Senate Judiciary Committee’s passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA). JVTA was included as an amendment to the Runaway and Homeless Youth and Trafficking Prevention Act and passed the committee unanimously. The companion legislation, sponsored by Congressman Poe passed the House of Representatives in May. “I am pleased that the Senate Judiciary Committee has approved legislation to combat the scourge of human trafficking. Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) addresses each of the three different groups involved in the crime of human trafficking: the trafficker, the buyer and the victim. JVTA implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating those who buy sex from minors and other trafficking victims like what they are: criminals. Finally, JVTA encourages a victim-centered approach to fighting human trafficking so that victims are no longer treated as criminals. The House and Senate Judiciary Committee have now taken necessary steps to end modern day slavery in America; I urge both Senator Reid and the President to do the same.”
09.18.2014	For Immediate Release Media Contacts: Shaylyn Hynes (Rep. Poe) 202-225-6565;Tom Flanagin (Rep. Black) 202-225-4231; Poe, Black Introduce the FIREARM Act Legislation prohibits the federal government from requiring race or ethnicity to be disclosed when purchasing a firearm. Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX-02) Diane Black (R-TN-06) introduced the FIREARM (Freedom From Intrusive Regulatory Enforcement of Arbitrary Registration Mandates) Act – legislation to prohibit the federal government from requiring race or ethnicity to be disclosed in connection with the purchase of a firearm. In 2012, the Obama Administration quietly began requiring the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to record firearms purchasers’ race and ethnicity. “Washington bureaucrats have no business requiring citizens who are lawfully purchasing firearms to disclose their race or ethnicity,” said Congressman Poe. “Under this rule, both gun dealers and purchasers face the threat of federal prosecution for not disclosing race or ethnicity on a form. This is an intrusive and unnecessary requirement. As long as the gun is purchased lawfully, race or ethnicity should be irrelevant.” “This requirement by the ATF is highly intrusive and unnecessary,” said Congressman Black. “Failing to adhere to this requirement by not checking all of the correct boxes on the 4473 Form is considered an ATF violation that can be so severe as to result in the gun dealer being shut down for having incomplete purchaser forms. This is causing a headache for many firearms retailers and this commonsense legislation would simply stop the federal government from requiring businesses and consumers to comply with this ‘race and ethnicity standard.’” The ATF’s justification for this requirement stems from a “race and ethnicity standard” devised by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) almost 20 years ago. According to the OMB, the 4473 Form was to be updated by ATF by 2003; however, there is no federal law requiring this administrative directive. Why, almost 10 years later, is the federal government requiring gun store owners and purchasers to record race and ethnicity? Failing to adhere to this requirement -- if the boxes are left blank -- can result in the ATF shutting down the business for having incomplete purchaser forms. Additional Information: Bill Text of the Firearm Act 9/16/2014: Washington Times: Obama administration forcing new gun buyers to declare race, ethnicity ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-Proliferation and Trade, issued the following statement on the amendment passed by the House to train and equip Syrian rebels. Congressman Poe voted against the amendment. “Today the House voted to ‘train and equip’ a rag tag group of so-called Syrian ‘rebels’ who are currently fighting Assad. Arming an unknown guerilla army with American weapons is reckless and dangerous. It is misguided to assume that Syrian rebels have any allegiance to the United States. In fact, it has been reported that some former rebels are now fighting with ISIS. Our so-called allies today could be our enemies tomorrow and use weapons to assist, not destroy ISIS. We cannot trust others to fight our battles for us.”
09.17.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 17, 2014 CONTACT Kaylie Hanson (Murphy) 202-228-1056 Rachel Barinbaum (Begich) 202-224-3004 Josh Zembik (Blumenthal) 202-224-6452 Matt House (Schumer) 202-224-2939 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202-225-6565 Courtney Chandler (Esty) 860-223-8412 BIPARTISAN “BILLY’S LAW” TO HELP FIND THE MISSING INTRODUCED TODAY WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Mark Begich (D-Alaska), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), as well as U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Elizabeth Esty (D-Conn.) introduced Billy’s Law, also known as the Help Find the Missing Act – legislation that would close loopholes in our national missing persons systems. Every year tens of thousands of Americans go missing, never to be seen by their loved ones again. At the same time, there are an estimated 40,000 sets of unidentified human remains across the country. Sadly, because of gaps in our systems, missing persons and unidentified remains are rarely matched. Billy's Law, which was originally introduced in 2009 by then Congressman Chris Murphy, was inspired by Janice Smolinski of Cheshire, Connecticut. In 2004, her 31-year-old son Billy went missing from Waterbury, Connecticut. When faced with the nightmare of trying to locate her missing son, Smolinski faced countless systemic challenges when trying to work with law enforcement to find him. Murphy penned Billy's Law to address those challenges and help ensure that more families do not encounter the hurdles the Smolinskis faced as they searched for their son. Billy’s Law will help the families of the missing find justice by authorizing and ensuring funding for the only federal database for missing persons and unidentified remains that can be cross-searched, accessed and added to by the public - the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs). This database enables the loved ones of missing persons to search for a match and add invaluable information to the case profile that only they know. The bill would also streamline the reporting process for law enforcement and medical examiners by connecting NamUs and the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC) - two major federal missing persons and unidentified remains databases. Finally, Billy's Law establishes an incentive grants program to help coroners, medical examiners, and law enforcement agencies facilitate the reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains, and would require the Department of Justice to issue a report on best practice standards and procedures. "Thousands of families across America wake up every day not knowing the whereabouts of their missing loved one. They expect and deserve Congress to come together to figure out a way to improve the way we handle missing persons cases. We need to do everything possible to make the tools and resources needed to find the missing available, and I won’t stop fighting for this legislation until it becomes law.” said Murphy. “This bill will reduce paperwork and provide law enforcement in Alaska and across the country with more tools to help families find their missing loved ones. We can always do more to help those experiencing the traumatic experience of having someone close to them go missing -- and I urge the Senate to pass this bipartisan bill,” said Begich. “Handling the pain of a missing loved one is hard enough without a system that is ill-equipped to handle these cases,” said Schumer. “This bill will empower families in their searches, and ensure that the federal government is doing its part to help find the missing.” “Having served as a chief felony prosecutor and a felony court judge in Harris County, Texas for over 30 years, I know firsthand the burden that violent crime puts on our communities,” said Poe. “The pain is made even worse when families are forced to wait for many months, or years, until they can find closure. Some families never find closure.” “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bicameral, bipartisan legislation that will help families across the country,” said Esty. “For families like the Smolinksis, who have struggled to navigate a broken system while also mourning the disappearance of their son from Waterbury, we ought to improve their ability to access critical information. Billy’s family is joined by the families of more than 87,000 missing persons across the country, and Billy’s Law will ensure that they have the necessary resources to continue the fight for justice for their loved ones.” ###
09.11.2014	"Tonight President Obama addressed the American people in hopes of gaining support for the fight ahead against ISIS. On the eve on September 11th, many Americans are more afraid than ever about an attack on the homeland. Instead of a vow that he will do whatever it takes to destroy ISIS and protect America, the Presidents finally acknowledged what we have known for months: ISIS is the most severe threat we face today. How did we get here? President Obama's actions as Commander in Chief have been poll driven, not mission driven. He has been more interested in ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan than winning them. Ending these wars prematurely for political gain instead of listening to the commanders on the ground has led in part to the situation we find ourselves in today. Meanwhile, Islamic radical militant groups like ISIS have emerged and grown in strength from the Syrian civil war. The President's timidity and hesitancy up to this point to recognize and fight this growing enemy has only allowed ISIS to expand from a small group of Islamic militant thugs to a well organized and well funded terrorist threat. So what now? The President offered a plan that includes chairing a meeting at the United Nations, in hopes of seeking their approval for the course forward. The United States should not wait for UN approval (or disapproval) to protect our own national security. The United States should go destroy ISIS. We should not rely on the United Nations, unknown Syrian rebels with questionable loyalties or the Iraqi military to protect the national security of the United States. Tonight the President claimed that a core principle of his Presidency has been to hunt down terrorists who threaten Americans. History is recording a different account. So far, he has not consistently taken the fight to the terrorists and as a result our credibility has diminished on the world stage with both our allies and our enemies. Terrorist groups worldwide are stronger than they have ever been. America is in as much danger as it has ever been. From the Benghazi killers to ISIS militants, our enemies desire to kill Americans has been driven by the fact that they no longer fear how we respond. I hope now we will finally prove them wrong. The path forward should be clear: the United States will seek, find, and destroy ISIS and anyone else who threatens our citizens." Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism.
09.11.2014	Washington, D.C.--"Thirteen years ago today, America found itself under attack, and our country was changed forever. The September 11th attacks were acts of unspeakable evil intended to tear our country apart, but those who sought to destroy us actually brought our nation together. As a result of the first responders and volunteers’ heroism, many got to live another day. There are countless stories of the selfless bravery that occurred on 9/11. In the face of attack, we pulled through with a remarkable spirit of unity and compassion that swept through our country. Two years ago today there was another 9/11 attack on American soil. Terrorists attacked the U.S. consulate in Benghazi; four Americans, including our Ambassador Chris Stephens, were murdered. On that day we were reminded that Osama bin Laden may be dead, but the war on terror is not over. The American people and families of the Benghazi victims still await action from the Administration on Benghazi. We know who the Benghazi killers are, but justice has still not been delivered. As we remember the tragedy that occurred on 9/11/01 and 9/11/12, we should remember those who died, those who got to live, and those who continue to fight for our freedoms today in places all over the world in the name of liberty and freedom."
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, introduced H.R.5406 the FTO Passport Revocation Act. This legislation would authorize the revocation or denial of passports and passport cards to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations. “The Benedict Arnold traitors who have turned against America and joined the ranks of the terrorist army ISIS should lose all rights afforded to our citizens,” said Rep. Poe. “This bill will help law enforcement locate these individuals by preventing them from travelling internationally so that they can be captured and brought to justice. Most importantly, this legislation will prevent turned Americans from entering the United States undetected. These people are not returning to America to open coffee shops; they are coming back to kill. We must stop them from coming back at all.”
09.09.2014	UNITED STATES CONGRESS FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 9, 2014 Cornyn: Jessica Sandlin, 512-469-6034 Poe: Shaylyn Hynes, 202-225-6565 Cornyn, Poe Press Holder To Comply With Violence Against Women Act DOJ in violation of section of the law intended to curb national rape kit backlog WASHINGTON—U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Ted Poe, R-Texas, today wrote to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the Department of Justice’s violation of a federal law intended to reduce the number of untested rape kits nationwide. As part of the Violence Against Women Act, the SAFER Act of 2013, co-authored by Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Poe, required the DOJ to issue regulations regarding best practices for rape kit collection and processing by September 7, 2014. To date, the DOJ has not issued such regulations. In the letter, Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Poe press the Attorney General to act immediately to bring his department into compliance and take the steps needed to implement this important law to curb the nation’s massive rape kit backlog. “There is no excuse for your failure to implement a bipartisan law that provides additional protections for sexual assault survivors. We ask that you take immediate action to comply with the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 by fully implementing the SAFER Act of 2013. The victims of sexual assault in the United States deserve nothing less.” The full text of the letter is below. September 9, 2014 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder: As the authors of the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2013, we write to inform you that the Department of Justice (DOJ) is in violation of this important legislation to protect sexual assault victims. The SAFER Act of 2013 was signed into law on March 7, 2013 as Title X of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. The massive backlog of untested rape kits in the United States is a national scandal with tragic consequences for sexual assault victims. Hundreds of thousands of rape kits currently sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nation—each one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide victims with the justice they deserve. For this reason, we were proud to sponsor the SAFER Act of 2013, which requires your Department to take numerous steps to eliminate the rape kit backlog by: dedicating funds for audits of the rape kit backlog, increasing resources for the analysis of untested rape kits, developing best practices to ensure that rape kits are properly collected and processed, and implementing reporting requirements to increase public information about the nationwide rape kit backlog. The SAFER Act of 2013 (Section 1002) requires your Department to issue “protocols and practices” for the “accurate, timely, and effective collection and processing of DNA evidence, including protocols and practices specific to sexual assault cases. . .” within 18 months of the date of enactment. Unfortunately, the time period for issuing these guidelines to ensure that rape kits are properly and expeditiously tested expired on September 7th without DOJ compliance. Your Department is therefore in violation of the SAFER Act of 2013, as enacted by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. We respect and honor the work that your Department has done to protect victims of crime, but there is no excuse for your failure to implement a bipartisan law that provides additional protections for sexual assault survivors. We ask that you take immediate action to comply with the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 by fully implementing the SAFER Act of 2013. The victims of sexual assault in the United States deserve nothing less. Sincerely,
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 5417, the BAKE SALE Act. This legislation would prohibit any funds from being used to implement USDA’s new ban on school fundraisers and bake sales during school hours. Nutrition standards for school breakfast and lunch programs were first established under the Obama Administration in accordance with the US Department of Agriculture’s National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Standards for All Foods Sold in School as Required by the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, regulating all food sold in public schools. However, last year the USDA adopted a rule that goes even further, extending the government’s reach to regulate any food sold at fundraisers during the school day. “The federal food police need to stay out of our schools,” said Rep. Poe. “First, the regulators came in to our lunchrooms, then vending machines and now school fundraisers. Bake sales are as American as apple pie. For years, students and parents have used the bake sale as a way to raise funds for school trips, athletic competitions, new uniforms and other activities. Teachers in my district have come to me concerned that this new rule will prevent their students from holding various after school activities. Washington bureaucrats have no business telling any American (no matter what age) what they can and cannot eat. Not only is this rule an example of gross government overreach, it is also denying public schools thousands of dollars for extra-curricular activities. Congress should not fund any efforts to implement this abuse of government power.”
08.29.2014	“In 1994, Russia promised to respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine in exchange for Ukraine giving up its nuclear weapons. Twenty years later, that agreement is nothing but a torn up piece of paper. Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine’s sovereign territory yesterday in Putin’s latest attempt to reestablish the Russian Empire. We have seen this script before: In 1956, when the Russians invaded Hungary, or 2008 when they invaded Georgia, or earlier this year when they invaded Crimea. Each time, the West did little but complain- as long as it wasn’t them that was getting devoured by the Russian bear. The United States and NATO need to stand by its ally Ukraine. We need to do more than make Russia promise it will not do it again. We must offer robust military assistance to Ukraine, provide alternative sources of energy to end Ukraine’s dependence on Russia, and issue severe, meaningful sanctions against Russia. As Ukrainian government officials warned me when I was there earlier this year, Russia will not stop until it is forced to stop.”
08.20.2014	“There are currently over 350 bills that have passed the House of Representatives but remain stuck in the Senate. The House has taken action and passed good legislation to address important issues facing our country from energy to job creation, but the process is stalled in the Senate where these bills still sit on Senator Reid’s desk collecting dust. The country’s many issues cannot be addressed if one chamber simply refuses to do its job.”
08.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade released the following statement on the death of American journalist James Foley: “Last night, ISIS militants released a video to the world showing the barbaric execution of American journalist James Foley. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family. This gang of extremists shows no sign of slowing down their murderous rampage. The goal of ISIS is to grow their terrorist army and indiscriminately kill everyone else in sight. Negotiating with them is not an option. In just a few short months they have grown from a band of thugs to an army tens of thousands strong. This is the most barbaric terrorist army this world has ever seen and their reign of terror will not end with the Middle East. This is a global campaign and ISIS is an immediate threat to our own national security (especially since it has been reported that hundreds of them are American passport holders). The goal of the United States should not be to contain ISIS, it should be to defeat ISIS. American air strikes have been effective so far but we must do more. Go after them with everything we have, continue air strikes, and arm the Kurds fighting against them on the ground.”
07.29.2014	“The State Department has finally found Russia to be in violation of the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF), something many of us have known for many months. The Russians violated the INF treaty by testing a ground-launched cruise missile that is within the prohibited range of the treaty. I’d like the State Department to be candid about how serious this violation is and what we are going to do about it. I’ve pushed the Administration and the State Department to make this determination for months in hearings, the media, and in correspondence. As it is, the report is over three months late which is unfortunate given the fact that Russia has been violating this treaty for five years. Russia must be held accountable for this violation and they must be stopped from deploying this missile. Arms control agreements mean nothing if one party is adhering to them and the other party violates them. That’s what we have here. It’s time to take off the blindfold and see Russia for who it really is: a country that cannot be trusted.”
07.25.2014	Recently, a video emerged of Ray Rice, a Baltimore Ravens’ running back, dragging his unconscious then-fiancée out of an elevator after allegedly punching her in the face several times. He was charged with third-degree aggravated assault; however, the prosecutors later dropped the charge after a plea deal was reached. The NFL’s response? A pathetic two game suspension. The league has harsher punishments for “offenses” such as eating unapproved foods or taking fertility drugs without prior approval. The NFL has a responsibility that goes beyond ticket sales and royalties. Our society, for better or worse, idolizes its athletes. In 2013, over 108 million Americans watched Rice help the Ravens win the Super Bowl, and thousands of young Americans wore Rice’s jersey with pride. After this decision, would a high school athlete think twice before pushing around his girlfriend? Would the abused girlfriend even bother to come forward? Unfortunately, the NFL seems more concerned with protecting its image than sending a strong message that violence against women will not be tolerated. Domestic violence was once seen as a “family issue,” not spoken of outside of the home. As a society, we’ve made some progress, but as this incident shows, we still have a long way to go. Those who commit violence against women – even star football players – cannot get away with it. With the NFL’s decision, yet another one just did. NFL greed and stardom scores points over justice. A former prosecutor and criminal court judge, Congressman Ted Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus.
07.24.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 24, 2014 CONTACTS: Sara Lonardo (DeLauro) 202-225-3661 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202-225-6565 On Heels of House Votes against Trafficking, 63 Members of Congress Urge Attorney General Holder to Crack Down On Buyers WASHINGTON, DC—This week the House of Representatives sent a clear, bipartisan message that America’s children are not for sale by passing a number of bills dealing with child trafficking. However, not a single one of those bills deals with the people who buy children for sex. And during a recent nationwide operation targeting sex trafficking, no buyers of underage children were arrested. While those bills, and the sting, are all necessary and should be fully supported, the root of the problem cannot be addressed until both traffickers and buyers are targeted. Today Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Ted Poe (R-TX) are leading a group of their colleagues in urging Attorney General Eric Holder to do just that. “We appreciate the desire to focus on the traffickers, but we cannot ignore the buyers,” the representatives wrote. “Without buyers, there would be no market for the traffickers. Until we target both the traffickers and buyers, who are complicit in child sex trafficking, we are failing to address the root of the problem…We urge you to send a strong message to both the buyers and traffickers involved in child sex trafficking that America’s children are not for sale.” During the recent Operation Cross Country 8, a week-long enforcement initiative to address commercial child sex trafficking, 281 pimps were arrested. The operation, conducted by the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and local, state and federal law enforcement, also saved 168 children from being bought and sold for sex. But there was not a single reported arrest of any buyer, despite the fact those individuals were in clear violation of the law by purchasing children for sex. In addition to the bills before the House this week, last month the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act. That bipartisan bill would encourage collaboration between law enforcement, child welfare systems and juvenile justice courts; and reduce demand for sex trafficking. According to the FBI there are currently at least 100,000 American children potentially exploited and trafficked for sex annually. The majority are girls between the ages of 12 and 14. ###
07.22.2014	“I stand with Governor Rick Perry and his decision to deploy the National Guard to secure the US-Mexico border. Countless times, Americans have witnessed the President's refusal to enforce our immigration laws, resulting in the influx of immigrant children pouring into our country. Furthermore, his refusal to even visit the border illustrates his half-hearted efforts into finding a real solution to this crisis. Thus, Texas took the reins and is taking charge itself, as there seems to be no back up from this administration. Until President Obama steps up to the plate and actually regains operation control of our southern border, Texans will do our part to protect our border, the people of Texas, and of the United States.”
07.10.2014	“In 1983, 241 U.S. servicemen died when a Marine barracks in Beirut was bombed. Now, over 30 years later, families of the victims are one step closer to receiving some compensation with this ruling. It will not replace the pain of losing their loved ones but it will be a small taste of justice. Iran must be held accountable for being the world’s biggest sponsor of terrorism.”
06.27.2014	Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was presented with the Highway Safety Hero Award by the Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety in recognition for his leadership in advancing motor vehicle safety in his Congressional District. Motor safety is an issue that Congressman Poe has worked on ever since the tragic 2006 bus crash where several of his constituents from West Brook High School girls’ soccer team were killed or seriously injured. Congressman Poe championed bipartisan legislation to enhance passenger and vehicle safety to prevent terrible accidents like this from ever happening again. “Today, we celebrate the past twenty-five years of advancing highway and auto safety legislation that has saved many thousands of lives,” said Jacqueline Gillan, the Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety president. “These lifesaving measures would not have been enacted without the dedication and tenacity of our legislative champions—they have made the nation’s roads safer for everyone who uses them, for generations to come. We thank Congressman Poe for his ongoing dedication to highway and auto safety and congratulate him on this well-deserved award.” “Our friends, family and loved ones travel every day on our roads. It is critical that we do all we can to ensure that they are safe while on the roads so that horrible, tragic accidents, like the 2006 West Brook High School bus crash, never happen again. The safeguarding of our roads is an issue that is neither Republican nor Democrat; it is something that affects us all. Enhancing passenger and vehicle safety is a top priority so that hopefully one less family will be spared the devastating news that their loved one was involved in a car crash.” Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, www.saferoads.org, is a coalition of leading consumer, health, and safety organizations and insurance agents and companies that work together to advance state and federal highway and vehicle safety laws, programs and policies. This award was presented on Capitol Hill, marking the organization’s 25th anniversary.
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON,D.C.— This week Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), along with the Executive Board Members of the Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC), sent a letter to President Obama calling on the Administration to immediately issue a public statement that the immigration laws of our country will be enforced and to make at least 2,000 National Guard troops available for deployment to the US/Mexico Border. “The surge of foreign nationals on the Texas border is a direct result of this Administration’s abysmal failure to enforce the rule of law and secure the southern border,” said Rep. Poe. “This lackadaisical border security policy has encouraged further illegal immigration and resulted in one of the greatest humanitarian crises this nation has ever seen. Children are being sent to this country illegally because despite what the President says, our border is not secure. The Immigration Reform Caucus calls on the President to deploy at least 2,000 National Guard troops to the U.S./Mexico Border, with the possibility of more troops should worsening situations arise. Laws are laws for a reason and should be treated as such. Without the cooperation of the President, we fear that the number of people pouring into our country will keep increasing, only to further complicate and burden our local state and law enforcement agencies. The President and his Administration need to take this call to action seriously.”
06.17.2014	“Our elite Special Operations forces have located and captured one of the suspected ringleaders of the terrorist attack in Benghazi. Ahmed Abu Khattala was able to roam free for far too long, even conducting interviews with an American news outlet at a café in Benghazi. The failure to bring any of the killers to justice until now has made the United States appear weak and helped to advance the narrative that attacks against the United States will go unpunished. Khattala’s capture and interrogation should shed light on what happened that night in Benghazi, as there is still much we don’t know. There are still other terrorists at large and they should also be brought to justice as soon as possible. Justice demands that we capture all of the outlaws, because justice is what we do in this country."
06.17.2014	Washington, D.C.--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was named a Taxpayer Hero for the first session of the 113th Congress. The Council for Citizens against Government Waste (CCAGW) honored him for his willingness to stand up for the American taxpayers. “The out of control national debt driven by big government and massive spending is arguably the greatest threat to our nation’s long term stability,” said Rep. Poe. “Congress has the power of the purse and therefore a moral obligation to reign in government waste. I am honored to be recognized by CCAGW as a steward of the American taxpayers.” CCAGW is a watchdog group whose mission is to eliminate waste, mismanagement and inefficiency in the federal government. Their goal in working with Congress is to increase transparency, minimize waste, permanently eliminate earmarks and reduce the ever-growing national debt.
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.Res620 calling on the Government of Mexico to immediately release Sgt. Tahmooressi and return him to the United States to allow him to receive care for his PTSD and the President of the United States to do all that he can to secure his release. “On March 31, Mexican authorities arrested 25-year-old U.S. Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi at the U.S.-Mexico border. Three firearms, all registered under his name in the United States, were discovered in his car. Two months later, Sgt. Tahmooressi is still in a Mexican jail. It is ironic that this Administration can deal with the Taliban to secure the release of a POW but we will not do the same for a marine imprisoned in Mexico. It is time for the White House to act.”
06.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC- This week, the House voted on the Veterans Access to Care Act (H.R. 4810). With Congressman Poe’s support, this bill passed the House unanimously in a 421-0 vote. This legislation will help to ensure that veterans receive the timely access to medical care that they deserve. “The more we hear about the VA’s treatment of veterans, the worse it gets, with more than 57,000 veterans still awaiting care,” said Congressman Poe. “This is absolutely unacceptable and we must provide care for our heroes now, not later. The House and Senate have now taken action by passing legislation that gives veterans the ability to get care outside the crumbling VA system if they have been waiting for an appointment for more than 30 days. Our veterans have waited in line and some have died waiting in line for VA healthcare, the Administration should not make them wait any longer.”
06.06.2014	Today, Friday, June 6, 2014 marks the 70th Anniversary of the invasion of Normandy. Titled Operation Overlord, Americans refer to the massive invasion by its military term, D-Day. A day the world will forever remember, D-Day, as our boys laid claim to German beaches inch by bloody inch. The conditions our boys battled that fateful day in June were absolutely dreadful. Exhausted, wounded and bewildered, our boys pushed forward, they never stopped. The D-Day mission to conquer the beaches though completed in spite of horrific obstacles and casualties paved the way to eventual victory. The boys of D-Day came; they liberated; and some went home. Over 9,000 other GIs are buried at the top of cliffs of Normandy France. As we reflect on our soldiers on D-Day, we once again marvel at the lives of those we call the Greatest Generation of Americans. Those who fought for a people they didn’t even know, in a land they had never even seen. America will forever feel a tug at her heart as we remember D-Day, 70 years ago.
06.03.2014	“America has had a long standing policy that we do not negotiate with terrorists—period. We can’t trust the motives of radical jihadists who would willingly die in the name of killing Americans. That rule has guided our foreign policy, until Saturday. On Saturday the Obama Administration initiated its new policy of bartering with terrorists. Congress was notified after the deal was struck that the Administration was in the midst of a prisoner swap. The President authorized the release of five of world’s most dangerous terrorists in exchange for the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl. Not only was this decision dangerous, it was illegal. The law—which President Obama signed just last year—could not be clearer. The Administration is required to both brief and notify Congress 30 days before it intends to transfer any enemy combatants from Guantanamo Bay. If the requirements of this law are not met then no funds are to be made available to transfer terrorists. There is no question that President Obama violated the law not once, but five different times. This Administration treats the Constitution and Congressional Authority a mere suggestions and afterthoughts. This illegal action taken by the President will only encourage kidnapping of Americans for ransom—be it for money or terrorist swaps. “
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of the USA Freedom Act. “Over the past year, Americans have learned that the NSA has abused the fourth amendment, secretly collecting bulk data including our phone calls, text messages and more. The NSA justified its actions citing Section 215 of the Patriot Act. Though it is clear that NSA acted outside the scope of Section 215, it was important for Congress to clarify the law and ensure that it could be abused no longer. Recently the Judiciary Committee passed the USA Freedom Act which would have done just that. It would have put an end to NSA’s illegal activities and ended bulk data collection as we know it. But between the Committee vote and the House floor the bill was changed and it now confused what should have been clarified. The version of the USA Freedom Act that passed the House today leaves room for different interpretations, potentially giving NSA the ability to continue to act outside the intent of Congress and the Constitution. I could not support a bill that may allow abuses of the fourth amendment to continue.”
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 4435, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2015 which included two amendments offered by Congressman Poe. NDAA passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 325-98. The Poe Amendments would: 1) Direct the Secretary of Defense to make a reasonable effort to make certain military equipment returning from abroad (that he determines to be excess) available to State, Federal, and local law enforcement agencies for the purpose of strengthening border security along the international border between the United States and Mexico. 2) Require the Secretary of Defense to provide for the conduct of an independent assessment of U.S. efforts to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda, including its affiliates groups, associated groups, and adherents since May 2, 2011. “I am pleased that the House has passed NDAA with bipartisan support including my amendments to strengthen security along our border and increase Congressional oversight over DOD efforts to disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al-Qaeda,” said Rep. Poe. “Making excess military equipment available to state, local and federal law enforcement along our southern border will provide much needed reinforcements to the men and women who are our first line of defense. It is also crucial that Congress is kept fully informed about the Administration’s effort to defeat Al Qaeda. Securing the border and continuing an aggressive strategy to defeat Al Qaeda are both critical pieces to keeping our citizens safe.” Poe is a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Poe (TX-02) released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 3530, the bipartisan Justice for Victims’ of Trafficking Act. The bill passed the House unanimously. “Today the House took necessary action to end human trafficking by passing a package of bipartisan bills to combat this heinous crime. My bill, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (JVTA) addresses each of the three different groups involved in the crime of human trafficking: the trafficker, the buyer and the victim. JVTA implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating those who buy sex from minors and other trafficking victims like what they are: criminals. Finally, JVTA encourages a victim-centered approach to fighting human trafficking so that victims are no longer treated as criminals. The House has taken necessary steps to end modern day slavery in America; I urge both the Senate and the President to do the same.” Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act Background: Repurposes and reauthorizes a grant program to create a victim-centered model block grant to help state and local governments develop and implement comprehensive victim-centered programs to train law enforcement to rescue victims, prosecute human traffickers, and restore the lives of victims. Allows state and local human trafficking taskforces to obtain wiretap warrants within their own state courts without federal approval in order to investigate crimes of child pornography, child sexual exploitation, and human trafficking. Requires law enforcement to upload available photos of missing children into the National Criminal Information Center database and to notify the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children of any child reported missing from a foster care family home or childcare institution. Reduces demand for human trafficking by clarifying current law and encouraging police, prosecutors, judges, and juries to target and punish persons who purchase illicit sexual activities from trafficking victims as human traffickers, rather than petty criminals. Reduces affirmative defenses for persons who exploit children through interstate prostitution by requiring them to show by clear and convincing evidence, rather than a preponderance of the evidence (current law), that they believed the child to be an adult. Reauthorizes the Victims of Child Abuse Act to provide funding to support regional and local Child Advocacy Centers (CACs), which offer a multi-disciplinary response to child abuse. Increases the obligation cap for the Justice Department’s Crime Victims Fund, financed solely by criminal fines, in order to provide services and support for victims of crime. ###
05.13.2014	“If reports that Iran is sending Chlorine gas canisters to the Assad regime in Syria are accurate, it reaffirms concerns that the Iranians will go to any lengths to protect their puppet in Damascus. There is already strong evidence that Assad has used chlorine gas against his own population, a gross human rights violation that is being actively facilitated by the Iranians. My Subcommittee has already held three hearings on the threat from Iran. It’s clear that the Iranian nuclear program is only one small part of their global terror campaign which includes murdering Americans and Israelis all over the globe, smuggling weapons, trafficking drugs, and bolstering dictators with chemical weapons. As I’ve said all along, it was a mistake to move forward in pursuit of a nuclear agreement with Iran without including a wide-range of terrorist acts that the Iranians engage in on a daily basis. The Iranians must be held accountable for the deaths of innocent civilians in Syria.”
05.12.2014	“I applaud Israel’s consideration to withhold tax revenue from the Palestinian Authority equal to what the Palestinian’s pay convicted terrorists in Israeli prisons. Clearly the Palestinian Authority has money to burn if they can afford to pay convicted terrorists millions of dollars as “bounty” for their crimes, to the tune of approximately 5 percent of their total annual budget. In a March hearing I held looking at the Palestinian Prisoner Program, I was dismayed to learn that even American taxpayer dollars might be fueling the fires of hatred and terrorism, subsidizing convicted killers in Israeli prisons. My opinion piece in the Jerusalem Post argued for an immediate halt to Palestinian Authority funding until they abolish this terrorism reward program. I’m glad to see that the Israelis are willing to stand up for logic and commonsense. The United States should throw our full support behind this plan and follow in short order with our own.”
05.12.2014	This week, we pay tribute to those who spend each day keeping us safe: peace officers. From May 12th–May 16th, Americans recognize National Police Week. Ceremonies and celebrations are held in communities across the nation to honor our local, state and federal law enforcement officers for their tireless dedication to keeping the peace. Every day, these brave men and women put on their uniform, pin on their badge and put themselves in harm's way. When the outlaws--the drug dealers, child molesters, wife beaters, robbers, bandits, murderers and street terrorists--threaten our communities, peace officers are the first ones to track them down. With their service, comes risk and sacrifice. This year we also remember those who have been killed in line of duty. We take one week a year to thank them for their service, but we are really grateful year-round. Peace officers have protected Americans for over 200 years, but our nation has formally recognized their service and remembered their sacrifices since 1962 when President John F. Kennedy first proclaimed May 15 as National Peace Officers Memorial Day. Although we officially celebrate peace officers this week, our gratitude and appreciation extends year round. Peace Officers separate anarchy from law and order. They help bring justice to crime victims, and peace to communities that crime has affected. We can rest easy knowing these men and women are watching over our communities. And that's just the way it is.
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade, issued the following statement on the House vote to establish a Select Committee on Benghazi. “On September 11, 2012, terrorists stormed the American consulate in Benghazi. Four Americans were murdered. 19 months later, their killers still roam free. Today, there are more questions than answers. The American people are still not sure what happened that night and the days following. Several House Committees launched investigations into the attack, but were stonewalled at every turn. Subpoenas were issued and ignored. Last week we learned from a White House email that there may have been a politically motivated effort to purposely deceive Congress and the American people about what really happened. This new evidence leaves us with no other choice but to establish a Select Committee. I commend the Speaker for establishing this committee. It is the historical role and duty of the people’s House to ensure that the full story is told even if the truth may not be politically convenient. This should happen no matter what party is in power. The families of the slain Americans and the American people deserve to know the truth. Every other method we have at our disposal has failed because the Administration has not cooperated. A Select Committee, with its aggressive subpoena power, will get the real story of what happened that night.” ###
05.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.Res 565 and H.Res574. Both resolutions passed the House with Congressman Poe’s support. “Today, the House of Representatives responded to the deliberate IRS targeting of conservative groups. Citizens all over America, including an organization within my district, run by Catherine Engelbrecht, have been targeted, intimidated and harassed by the IRS simply because of their political ideology. Treating law-abiding Americans like criminals for their beliefs violates every principle this nation was founded on. This Administration cannot be trusted in investigate itself. It has been almost a year since we first learned from Lois Lerner that criminal activity had apparently place in the IRS. Members of the Executive Branch were responsible for deliberately targeting and harassing conservative groups attempting to gain 501c3 status. The President declared this was unacceptable and the Attorney General vowed that anyone who had broken the law would be held accountable. Suddenly in February, the President changed his story, declaring that there had not been “not even a smidgen of corruption” despite what had been found before. The American people want to know their government is not engaged in this kind of Soviet style behavior. It is time to hold someone accountable for this criminal activity so that faith can be restored in our government.” H.Res. 565- Calls on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of conservative non-profit groups by the Internal Revenue Service. H.Res. 574 is a resolution recommending that the House of Representatives find Lois G. Lerner in contempt of Congress for refusal to comply with a subpoena duly issued by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform ###
05.02.2014	“I applaud Speaker Boehner for establishing a Select Committee on Benghazi. The Administration has willfully neglected from telling Congress and the American people the whole truth. From playing down the simple fact that this was a planned terrorist attack to still almost 2 years later failing to bring any of the perpetrators to justice, this Administration must be held accountable for the worst terrorist attack against Americans since 9/11. From my own investigation into this matter as Chairman of the Terrorism Subcommittee, I can tell you that this cover-up has gone on for too long. The administration continues to withhold evidence and it is my opinion that the Select Committee, and the subpoena powers that come with it, will be able to get to the truth that the families of the slain Americans, and the American people deserve.”
04.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee today approved three bills to combat the growing problem of human trafficking in the United States. The Committee first approved by voice vote the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 3530), a comprehensive anti-human trafficking bill authored by Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). This bill boosts support and protection for domestic human trafficking victims by increasing and streamlining law enforcement resources, enhancing victims’ services, and strengthening our laws to ensure that both buyers and sellers engaged in sex trafficking are held accountable for their crimes. The Committee also approved by voice vote the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 3610), sponsored by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.). This bill provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked minors as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. The bill also provides an avenue for victims to access job skill training so that they can begin to rebuild their lives. Additionally, the Committee passed by a vote of 24-3 the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 4225), authored by Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), to criminalize those who knowingly advertise or profit from advertisements that offer the commercial exploitation of minors and trafficking victims. Below are statements from House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Crime Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), and Representatives Ted Poe, Erik Paulsen, and Ann Wagner praising today’s Committee approval of these three bills. Chairman Goodlatte: “Sex traffickers and their buyers dehumanize their victims, treating them not as human beings created in the image of God, but instead as objects to be used for their own profit or pleasure. And sadly, when children are trafficked, not only are they robbed of their innocence and childhood, but they also are often treated as criminals rather than as victims in need of special care. “While we have strengthened our laws to combat human trafficking, we still have work to do to put an end to these heinous crimes. I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee today approved several crucial pieces of legislation that hold everyone involved in these crimes accountable, whether they sell, buy, or market these crimes to potential buyers. These bills also ensure that exploited children are treated as victims rather than as criminals and provide much-needed resources to victims of sex trafficking that will help them reclaim and rebuild their lives. I thank my colleagues, Representatives Ted Poe, Erik Paulsen, and Ann Wagner, for working on these important bills and urge the House to take these measures up as soon as possible.” Rep. Poe: “There are three different groups in the crime of human trafficking. The buyer, the trafficker, and the victim. This legislation addresses all three. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating people who buy other people like what they are: criminals. Finally, it increases support for and protection of those who have suffered: the victims. Congress must take the lead and ensure that victims of human trafficking are no longer treated as criminals. We must end this modern day slavery that occurs in our own backyards.” Rep. Paulsen: “Best practices prove that safe harbor laws work. By incentivizing states to pass their own safe harbor legislation, we can ensure that minors are protected and that more resources are dedicated to arresting and prosecuting the real criminals. Instead of turning a blind eye to sex trafficking, we need to provide an avenue for victims to escape and get the services they require. It is time to put an end to sex trafficking.” Rep. Wagner: “Today the American people are one step closer to ending the horrors of sex trafficking. I would like to sincerely thank Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner for all their efforts in support of the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act. The SAVE Act will amend the criminal code and give prosecutors the tools they need to investigate and prosecute those who knowingly advertise sex slavery. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance this life saving legislation, and ensure that any advertisement used for the sexual exploitation and enslavement of innocent victims be shut down.” Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner: “As a nation that prides itself on human dignity, widespread human trafficking is utterly unacceptable. As a society, we should protect our most vulnerable. The sexual exploitation of children and coerced adults must be stopped, and those involved must be punished. As chairman of the Crime Subcommittee and the Over-Criminalization Task Force, I take this issue very seriously and look forward to enacting real reforms that thwart human trafficking in this country.” Background: According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. One organization estimates that child sex trafficking in the U.S. is a $9.8 billion industry. However, since these crimes usually occur outside of the public eye, it is difficult to estimate the number of minor victims of sex trafficking. One study estimates that over 290,000 American youth are at risk of becoming a victim of sex trafficking. Additionally, from 2004 through 2008, the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force experienced an increase of more than 900 percent in the number of minor sex trafficking complaints. While the investigation and prosecution of human trafficking has often been carried out by state and local law enforcement, the enactment of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (TVPA) in 2000 made child sex trafficking in interstate commerce a federal crime. The TVPA is the primary legislative vehicle authorizing services to victims of trafficking and was most recently reauthorized in 2013. ###
04.10.2014	“Israel’s consideration to withhold tax revenue from the Palestinian Authority equal to what the Palestinian’s pay convicted terrorists in Israeli prisons should be applauded,” said Rep. Poe. “Clearly the Palestinian Authority has money to burn if they can afford to pay convicted terrorists millions of dollars as “bounty” for their crimes, to the tune of approximately 5 percent of their total annual budget. In a March hearing I held looking at the Palestinian Prisoner Program, I was dismayed to learn that even American taxpayer dollars might be fueling the fires of hatred and terrorism, subsidizing convicted killers in Israeli prisons. My opinion piece in the Jerusalem Post argued for an immediate halt to Palestinian Authority funding until they abolish this terrorism reward program. I’m glad to see that the Israelis are willing to stand up for logic and commonsense. The United States should throw our full support behind this plan and follow in short order with our own.” Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) joined members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals that have gone above and beyond to helping victims of crime. Poe and Costa cofounded the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus in 2005. This year, Congressman Poe awarded Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia with the Suzanne McDaniel Memorial Award for Public Awareness for his service to Harris County, specifically on the issue of combatting Human Trafficking “Houstonians are lucky to have the finest Sherriff in the nation protecting us. Sherriff Garcia is a lawman who has dedicated his life to making Houston safer, keeping criminals off the streets and watching out for victims of crime. He does it all--from hunting down killers to going after human trafficking rings. The fight against sex trafficking in Houston has made great strides thanks The Sheriff’s dedication to this issue. Thanks to him we are much closer to eradicating modern day slavery.”
04.09.2014	“Looks like Putin is on to phase two of Cold War II. Reports from eastern Ukraine indicate that Putin is following the Crimea model, stirring up fake protests to pave the way for a Russian invasion. Covert Russian operatives whipped up mobs in the eastern cities of Kharkiv, Donetsk and Luhansk over the weekend with some of the “protestors” seizing government buildings. Putin is likely timing this to preempt Ukrainian elections scheduled for late May. If he feels so emboldened by the tepid response to his theft of Crimea, Russian tanks may be gearing up to roll into eastern Ukraine. Clearly, the soft-handed sanctions and travel bans have not changed Putin’s calculus. The U.S. and our European allies must hold the line with Ukraine and send a clear message to Putin that he will not be allowed to illegally seize more sovereign territory.”
04.08.2014	Washington, D.C. —Tonight, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement on the passage of the Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 (H.R. 4323). The Debbie Smith Act protects victims of rape and sexual assault and helps go after criminals by extending a federal grant program for state and local governments to reduce the backlog of DNA kits. H.R. 4323 extends the Debbie Smith Act through the year 2019. “Roughly every two minutes, an American is sexually assaulted. Tonight, the House voted to extend the Debbie Smith Act, which both protects victims of sexual assault and goes after perpetrators. This legislation also includes language from Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2013, which addresses the widespread problem of rape kit backlogs. Currently, an estimated 400,000 rape kits sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nation, each one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide a victim with the justice they deserve. Victims of violent crime should not live in fear and be denied justice while their attackers go about their everyday lives because of a bureaucratic backlog. It is unconscionable to let evidence sit on dusty shelves in storage facilities when it could be used to put perpetrators where they belong: behind bars.”
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act, which passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. This legislation includes both sanctions against Russia and support measures for Ukraine. H.R. 4278 also includes the Poe Amendment, which requires the State Department to produce a report on the potential short, medium and long-term impacts of increased U.S. natural gas and oil exports on Russia’s economic and political influence over Ukraine and other European countries. “I am pleased that the House passed this important bill that reaffirms America's support for Ukraine and takes definitive steps to stop Russia’s aggression in the region,” said Poe. “The Napoleon of Siberia (Putin) keeps control over Ukraine and other European countries by holding their energy needs hostage. Russia uses natural gas as a weapon to manipulate neighboring economies. The United States can change this. The Ukraine Support Act includes my amendment, which promotes increased natural gas exports in order to decrease Russia’s economic and political influence over Ukraine and other European nations. We must help Ukraine stand strong amidst the bully Putin and prove the Russian bear and his energy can one day be irrelevant.” ####
03.25.2014	Washington - Congressman Mike Rogers (AL), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Congressman Joe Heck, Chairman, House Intelligence Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence, and Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade made the following statement on the introduction of their resolution concerning Russia’s violation of the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty, a day after their joint classified subcommittee oversight with the Obama Administration. Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), a Member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, is introducing a companion resolution in the Senate: "Fresh off the invasion of a sovereign state, Russian cheating cannot be interpreted in anything but the most sinister terms. Cheating is not a separate issue, but is rather recognized as an equal part of President Putin’s long term plan for a resurgent Russia.” “We have introduced this resolution because the viability of future arms control agreements depend on the reliability of current ones. The INF treaty is the central arms control accord of the nuclear era. We must treat it seriously and pursue violations relentlessly. There is simply no point in having treaties unless both sides treat them with the utmost fidelity, and act in a manner binding to the agreement. " In a letter to colleagues urging support for the resolution, the sponsors wrote: On Thursday, January 29th, the New York Times reported that the Russian Federation is violating and circumventing the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. This treaty, which was ratified by the United States in 1987, prohibits the U.S. and Russia from developing or deploying ground-launched missiles with ranges between 500 - 5,500 kilometers. Over the past two years, senior members of Congress repeatedly sent a series of classified and unclassified letters to the White House requesting immediate high-level action from the Administration to address this violation. Moreover, according to our oversight, the Administration omitted this possible violation from Senate consideration during the process of ratification of the New START Treaty in 2010. The Administration chose to downplay and marginalize Russia’s cheating while projecting that its “reset” policy was sound. It is understandable that Russia felt it could get away with its illegal invasion of Ukraine when this Administration has tolerated its other violations of international law. In his speech on nuclear disarmament in Prague, in April 2009, President Obama stated that he longed for the “peace and security…of a world without nuclear weapons.” Mindful of history, perhaps, he also stated, “[r]ules must be binding. Violations must be punished. Words must mean something.” He followed this policy pronouncement with his Nuclear Posture Review in 2010, which stated, “it is not enough to detect non-compliance; violators must know that they will face consequences when they are caught.” The President said the right words in Prague and it is time for him personally address Russia’s violation of the INF treaty. Our resolution is intended to induce the President to show that his words mean something. The resolution states that the Russian Federation has violated and circumvented the INF treaty, and its conduct represents a “material breach” of the central arms control regime of the nuclear era. The resolution would call on the President to take appropriate action to ensure that the Russian Federation is unable to profit from its violation by potentially threatening U.S. allies in Europe and Asia. At a time when Russia has illegally invaded Ukraine, and when Syria and Iran must understand the continuing consequences of their illegal weapons of mass destruction programs, it is intolerable for a major arms control violation like the material breach of the INF treaty to occur without consequences. If the President won’t act, the Congress must. ####
03.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Poe introduced two proposals to respond to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The Fight Russian Energy Exploitation (FREE) Act and the Russia Visa Sanctions Act would require the Department of Energy to fast-track permits for natural gas sales to Ukraine, other former Soviet states and nations in the European Union. The Russia Visa Sanctions Act imposes immediate VISA sanctions on Russia. “Putin believes he can get away with invading sovereign nations like Ukraine, because he knows they depend on Russia to survive. Much of the former Soviet territories and Europe are at the mercy of the Kremlin when it comes to energy security. We can free these nations from the shackles of Moscow by encouraging them to pivot to the West and buy American natural gas instead. Selling our natural gas would benefit the United States economy, help our allies in Europe, eliminate Russia’s energy monopoly and lessen their influence.” “Meanwhile, the United States must deny VISAs to any Russian government official. Our response to the action of Putin must be aggressive and the Russian government has lost the right to enter this country until it can demonstrate respect for the international rule of law. The Fight Russian Energy Exploitation (FREE) Act would require the Department of Energy to expedite and approve any permits to Ukraine, all former Soviet nations and all members of the European Union. The Russia Visa Sanctions Act would withhold all VISA’s—both official and tourist—for all Russian government officials until the Secretary of State certifies that: 1) All Russian military activity has ceased. 2) Russia once again respects the territorial sovereignty of Ukraine as they agreed to under the 1994 Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances for Ukraine.
03.13.2014	“I’m deeply troubled by reports that convicted 9/11 terrorist Mohammed Haydar Zammar has been set free in Syria. Zammar was being held by the Assad regime while serving a 12-year sentence. Recently, it seems that Zammar was released in a prisoner swap deal with the Syrian terrorist group Ahrar al-Sham. Zammar is said to have been personally invited by Osama bin Laden to a terrorist training camp in 1996, and was the organizer for a travel service that shuttled terrorists to the region before the Sept. 11 attack on the United States. Zammar helped to recruit convicted 9/11 terrorist Mohammed Atta. Letting dangerous old-school terrorists like Zammar roam free is a dangerous proposition. As a German citizen, there is speculation that Zammar may try to return home. I hope that the U.S. government and our German allies do everything possible to prevent dangerous men like Zammar from returning to an active role in al-Qaeda.”
03.04.2014	"The disturbing events unfolding in Ukraine prove that Russia has returned to its days of Soviet imperialism. Its aggressive actions show total disregard for the sovereignty of other nations and desire to once again assert its dominance by bullying its neighbors. This is not the first time Russia has invaded another country in recent years. I was in Georgia in 2008, two weeks after Russian tanks rolled in and confiscated one third of its territory. The United States watched and did nothing. It seems we are just watching now. The Russian Bear roars for Ukrainian prey. Will the American Eagle squak and fly away? Our enemies do not fear us . Our friends cannot count on us. The rest of the world does not respect us."###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Sen. Rand Paul joined Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) to introduce the “Constitutional Check and Balance Act.” The legislation authorizes members of Congress to bring an action for declaratory and injunctive relief in response to a written statement made by the President – or any other executive branch official – that directs that branch to not enforce a provision of federal law. “I am excited to join my friend Rep. Poe in introducing legislation to provide a way to seek relief in federal court when the executive branch decides they don’t want to follow the law,” said Sen. Paul. “The Obama administration is trying to rewrite Obamacare by executive fiat and that act is a violation of the separation of powers in the United States Constitution. This and other attempts by the Obama administration to rewrite the law can be stopped if this bill becomes law.” “As most Americans learned in eighth grade civics, the Constitution requires that the Executive Branch enforces laws passed by the Legislative Branch,” said Rep. Poe. “Unfortunately, this Administration treats the law as a mere suggestion, picking and choosing which ones to enforce. This legislation provides a pathway for Members of Congress to go after the Administration in federal court when it fails to enforce laws passed by the legislative branch. It utilizes the principle of checks and balances when the Executive has abused its power. It is time for Congress to reign in the Imperial President.”###
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement on H.R. 3865, Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014, after it passed in the House.“The disturbing, unlawful behavior of the IRS has threatened Americans’ individual freedom and violated the Constitution,” said Rep. Poe. “Nobody should be punished for questioning their government. This legislation, passed with bipartisan support, is a necessary step toward putting an end to the rampant abuse and harassment Americans have experienced from the IRS. This is America, not the Soviet Union.”###
01.31.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement reacting to the State Department’s Environmental Impact Study for the Keystone XL Pipeline:“Now that the State Department has released its final Environmental Impact Study, it is time for the President to quit delaying and act on what in the national interest, not the interest of those in his corner politically. Our country’s energy and national security should not be beholden to the environmental lobby any longer. President Obama should begin his “year of action” by making good on his support for an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy and swiftly approving the Keystone XL Pipeline. This shovel ready project will create thousands of jobs and safely provide America with almost as much crude oil as we get from Venezuela. America can be energy independent if the Administration would step out of the way. It is time to make Middle Eastern turmoil irrelevant.”Houston Congressman Ted Poe is the author of the “Keystone for a Secure Tomorrow Act” which would empower Congress to directly and immediately approve the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline.
01.31.2014	Today, Rep. Ted Poe, Chairman of the TNT subcommittee on HFAC, joined his colleagues Rep. Mike Rogers and Rep. Joe Heck in sending a letter to the Administration requesting a classified briefing on the United States’ response to Russia’s material breach and circumvention of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.“Now, when we are in the midst of negotiations with Iran on their nuclear weapons program, is not the time for the United States to act like there are no consequences for violations of agreements with the United States. If reports are true that the Russians have tested a ballistic missile in violation of its treaty with the United States, then we should stop hemming and hawing, call it like it is, and make sure there are clear consequences. The United States’ credibility is on the line.”###
01.30.2014	“Reports out of Syria are that Damascus has given up less than 5 percent of its chemical weapons arsenal. The Assad regime will miss next week’s deadline for sending their toxic weapons abroad for destruction. It seems to me that relying on the word of a ruthless dictator who murders his own was not a sound policy decision. Assad is stalling for time, according to senior Western diplomats, and we’ve allowed him to by leaving it up to him and his cronies to collect and hand over their arsenal. This entire process is now 6-8 weeks behind schedule. This is unacceptable. It’s past time that the U.S. and international community start coming up with a plan B in the likely event that the Assad government continues to stall and test our resolve.”###
01.30.2014	Tonight President Obama left Americans with a case of deja vu, delivering a speech filled with recycled promises and no plan to achieve them. He called for a "year of action", threatening to unilaterally drive through his agenda with or without the support of Congress. This is America, not Burger King. The President can't always have it his way.This speech was heavy on rhetoric and far from reality. The President touted that more Americans have coverage thanks to Obamacare, but failed to mention the millions who have lost the plans he promised they could keep. He promised to take the fight to terrorists in the Middle East and North Africa yet failed to mention the terrorist attacks that took the lives of Americans in Algeria and Benghazi or what, if anything, he is doing to bring Justice to the killers. He touted an increase in energy production, yet failed to mention that production is higher with no thanks to the government. He claimed to support an all of the above energy strategy yet failed to explain why he still has not approved the shovel ready Keystone XL Pipeline project.Americans are ready for a year of action, not another year of broken Washington promises. It is time for this President to reach out, not shut out Congress.###
01.28.2014	“South Korea is one the United States’ closest allies. For decades we have worked together to bring peace to the Asia-Pacific region and strengthen both of our economies. I am glad to see that legislation first passed out of my subcommittee with strong support has finally been sent to the President’s desk. The agreement today makes sure that the billions of dollars in trade between our two nuclear industries can continue while our two governments continue to work through a more long-term agreement. As unanimous passage shows, the US relationship with South Korea has the broad support of the American people.”###
01.22.2014	“Thanks to the Israelis and Shin Bet an al Qaeda plot to bomb the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv has been thwarted. As we have seen, al-Qaeda is a threat to the U.S. and our allies around the globe. According to reports, the operatives for this plot were recruited using social media. This continues to be a major tool for recruiting jihadists world-wide and we must do more to restrict their ability to use this platform. The successful disruption of the plot undoubtedly saved the lives of innocent U.S. and Israeli citizens. The U.S. and Israel must remain united in this campaign to combat global terrorism.”###
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Ted Poe (R-Tex.) and Sen. Rand Paul released the following statement following the introduction of the Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act, S. ____ and H.R. 3807. This bill would repeal the provisions under the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that reduces cost-of-living adjustments below inflation for retired veterans under 62 years of age and restore funding by eliminating foreign to aid to certain countries and authorizing the sale of some Federal lands.“Those who have spent their lives protecting the rest of us should be the last to sacrifice what they have earned in order to pay for even more Washington spending. Congress should instead cut the billions in aid to countries who are not our friends, like Pakistan. This bill would restore this crucial funding by using the billions in foreign aid that we give Egypt and Pakistan each year. We don’t need to pay our enemies to hate us, they’ll do it for free. This legislation would also require the federal government to systematically sell some of its unused and unmaintained land (excluding National Parks and historical sites). Currently, the federal government owns 27% of the total land in our country (equivalent to the size of Western Europe). If this unused land was sold day it could generate up to $1.1 trillion. Selling this land could also inject money back into state and local economies by creating new economic opportunities on this dormant federal land,” Rep. Poe said.“In a failed effort to save $6.2 billion over the next ten years, Congress and the President broke a financial promise to the veterans of this nation with the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. In addition to stripping veterans of their promised retirement compensations, the budget does not balance the budget and raises taxes for all Americans,” Sen Paul said. “We owe it to the men and women who have served in our Armed Forces to protect their livelihood, just as they have protected ours– and the Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act will do just that. I will continue to do all I can in support of our nation’s veterans.”###
01.15.2014	“Today, I voted against the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, also known asthe "Omnibus bill.” In an Obamacare style vote, this 1,586 page bill was jammed through the House only 52 hours after it was released to the public. This violated the rule to allow three days for Members of Congress (and the American people) to read what is in proposed legislation before it is voted on. We all learned the hard way what occurs when this does not happen through Obamacare. The House of Representatives passed this bill.Ultimately, I could not support this $1 trillion dollar massive spending bill. Our nation is well over $17 trillion in debt. This bill does not go far enough to cut spending. Unless Congress gets serious about changing the way Washington spends the people’s money, the national debt will only continue to grow and become the burden of our children and grandchildren. Not only does this bill allow for too much spending, it also reflects Washington’s grossly misplaced priorities. It allows for more wasteful government agency spending on projects like food stamp advertisements in foreign countries and stopping the spread of Asian Carp in the Great Lakes. Worst of all, it allows for $1.5 billion in aid to Egypt, while cutting military benefits promised to thousands of men and women who served our country. Congress should not pass a budget that treats our enemies better than our heroes. That is why Senator Paul and I have introduced the “Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act” that would restore military COLA benefits by cutting aid to Egypt and Pakistan.###
01.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Poe introduced the Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act. This legislation would restore military pension benefits by requiring the federal government to freeze aid to Egypt and Pakistan and sell some of its unused and unmaintained federal land.“In December, the House voted on a budget bill (H.J. Res. 59). Though the mainstream media has portrayed this as an ideal compromise, I voted against it for several reasons. Most alarmingly, the bill cuts one percent from the annual Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) increase from veteran and military retiree pension benefits, benefits that were promised when those individuals signed up to serve our country. This could amount to a 20 percent decrease in some military pensions over 20 years. Those who have spent their lives protecting the rest of us should be the last to sacrifice what they have earned in order to pay for even more Washington spending. Congress should instead cut the billions in aid to countries who are not our friends, like Pakistan. That is why, I introduced the “Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act” which will restore funding for military retiree pension benefits. This bill would restore this crucial funding by using the billions in foreign aid that we give Egypt and Pakistan each year. We don’t need to pay our enemies to hate us, they’ll do it for free. This legislation would also require the federal government to systematically sell some of its unused and unmaintained land (excluding National Parks and historical sites). Currently, the federal government owns 27% of the total land in our country (equivalent to the size of Western Europe). If this unused land was sold day it could generate up to $1.1 trillion. Selling this land could also inject money back into state and local economies by creating new economic opportunities on this dormant federal land.”###
01.10.2014	I am pleased that the State Department is set to designate Ansar al-Sharia as Foreign Terrorist Organization. The killers behind the Benghazi attack are still at large. Sixteen months later, no one has been brought to justice. Designating Ansar al-Sharia as an FTO is an encouraging first step, but as always, action is required to ensure that Ansar al Sharia is not treated by the United States as a terrorist organization in name only. We must use all resources available to understand its networks and operatives, how they move money around and resource their operations, and finally, freeze and seize their finances. In order to be effective, we must use all available tools that the U.S. government has at its disposal to go after these terrorists. ###
01.03.2014	Today, Camp Liberty in Iraq once again came under attack when dozens of missiles rained down over the camp, killing at least two and severely injuring at least fifty others. It is no coincidence that this attack came shortly after Prime Minister al-Maliki's visit to Iran. By now, Prime Minister Maliki has made it painfully obvious that he has no intention of protecting the citizens of Camp Liberty. This is the fourth missile attack on Camp Liberty in 2013, yet no one has been held accountable. It is time for the United States demand action from Prime Minister Maliki. We should immediately freeze aid to Iraq until he finds and punishes the criminals responsible for these attacks. Perhaps the Administration should spend less time trying to appease Iran and more time working to ensure the safety and security of the Iranian freedom fighters residing in Camp Liberty. ###
12.18.2013	“Today, the State Department announced the designation of the al-Mulathamun Battalion as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) and as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist entity. The al-Mulathamun Battalion is led by the vicious terrorist Mokhtar Belmokhtar. Belmokhtar and his fighters were responsible for the January 2013 attack against a gas facility near In-Amernas Algeria. Tragically, the attack resulted in the death of one of my constituents, Victor Lovelady. To this day, the Lovelady family does not have justice. While I welcome this designation, we must do more to capture Belmokhtar and hold him and his fighters responsible for this attack. Additionally, as with other FTO designations, the implementation of the designation is far more important than the announcement. We must go after Belmokhtar’s finances, pressure his organization, and ultimately capture or kill him.”###
12.17.2013	“Today, a federal judge found what Americans have said all along: NSA’s spying activities are invasive and unconstitutional. The Fourth Amendment protects citizens from unreasonable search and seizures by establishing a right to privacy. NSA has been in clear violation of the spirit and letter of the law by seizing data of millions of Americans without a warrant to do so. I was a Judge for over 20 years, I signed thousands of warrants, but not once did I sign a warrant to search homes in a whole zip code in hopes of finding one bad guy who may live there. The same rules apply to technology.It is time for Congress to begin a full review of these powers and to pass new laws that ensure that the Fourth Amendment is properly applied to new technology. Whether it is access to our emails, tracking us via our cell phones, monitoring who we call, or using drones for surveillance, the fact is technology has moved faster than our laws have been able to keep up, and that needs to change. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not.”###
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON – On December 12, 2013, Members of the House and Senate introduced bipartisan legislation that would allow the United States or any state or local government to register official insignia for federal trademark protection. Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-2) and Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) introduced H.R. 3713 in the House and Senators Klobuchar (MN), Charles Schumer (NY) and Mike Lee (UT) introduced identical companion legislation in the Senate. “State and local governments (including local law enforcement) should have the ability to be protected by federal trademark laws,” said Rep. Poe. “Producing counterfeit items with the logo of a local government or law enforcement agency should not be a source of profit, it should be a crime.”This bill would amend the Trademark Act of 1946, also known as the Lanham Act, to allow the Federal government as well as all State and local governments to register with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) marks consisting of their flag, coat of arms and other official seals.“State and local governments (including local law enforcement) should have the ability to be protected by federal trademark laws,” said Rep. Poe (TX-2). “Producing counterfeit items with the logo of a local government or law enforcement agency should not be a source of profit, it should be a crime.”Currently, the Trademark Act of 1946 does not include federal protections for official flags and other such emblems. Local governments have expressed support for legislation on this critical issue. In June 2012, the United States Conference of Mayors adopted a resolution asking Congress to pass this legislation.# # #
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC— Co-Chairs of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Reps. Ted Poe and Jim Costa, introduced the reauthorization of the Victims of Child Abuse Act that will improve accountability and extend the program for 5 years. The act provides funding to the National Children’s Alliance, local Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs), and four Regional Children’s Advocacy Center programs. These centers and programs help expedite prosecution of offenders, reduce violent encounters, and improve safety in communities across the country.“It is an unfortunate and unacceptable fact that thousands of children are victims of the despicable crime of child abuse in this country every year,” said Rep. Poe. “Through this piece of legislation, Congress ensures that those who are advocating for and protecting our children have the resources they need. We must do all we can to protect innocent children and make sure their needs are met so they can go on to live happy, productive lives.”“When one in four girls and one in six boys will be sexually abused before they turn 18, this issue, which impacts every neighborhood, every school, and every community across the country, deserves action and continued vigilance,” said Rep. Costa. “Supporting victims of child abuse takes a comprehensive approach that meets the needs of the child while also gathering all the information necessary for a successful prosecution. We have come a long way in our effort to combat child abuse, but our job is nowhere near finished.”Funds from the act go directly to local Children’s Advocacy Centers (CACs) that are public-private partnerships aimed at bringing together local law enforcement, prosecutors, child protective services, and medical professionals involved in investigating cases of child abuse. In 2000, the program helped 100,539 children and has grown to 286,000 children served in 2012.As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. ###
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, the House passed the FY2014 national defense funding bill, which included a provision that Congressman Poe has advocated for to require the Administration to increase its efforts to combat the Haqqani network, a designated Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO).“Under this Administration, the Haqqani network has been able to operate freely,” said Poe. “After months of inaction, Congress finally forced the State Department to designate them as a foreign terrorist organization in September of 2012. Since then, the Haqqani network has been an FTO in name only. The Administration has failed to seize the network’s finances, impede the travel of its operatives, or pressure Gulf countries to crack down on fundraising and recruitment. As a result, I believe the Haqqani network is stronger and more deadly than ever. It is time to go after these killers.”Congressman Poe is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade.
11.25.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. --- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the Administration’s announcement of an interim agreement with Iran:This is a bum deal for those who want peace in the region and the world. We just allowed a regime that only last week called Israel the 'rabid dog in the region' and promised that it was 'doomed to destruction' to continue to enrich uranium- a key element in moving towards a nuclear weapon and something that even the soft UN condemned. The President has not strictly enforced sanctions to date and with this deal giving billions of dollars in relief to Iran we send the wrong signal to financial markets that are just looking for an excuse to not comply with existing sanctions. This is reminiscent of the Chamberlain mistake of appeasement with the Nazis by promising "peace in our time". This deal will not stop the Iranians quest for Nuclear weapons.###
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. --- Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on new charges filed against Pakistani doctor Dr. Afridi:"Once again, Pakistan continues to surprise and amaze the world. Today, Pakistan charged a hero Pakistani doctor who helped the U.S. track down bin Laden with murder. Dr. Afridi had been given a 33-year jail sentence on trumped-up charges but that was thankfully overturned. Here we go again. The charges against Dr. Afridi are nothing more than a political witch-hunt aimed at punishing the man who helped the U.S. kill the world’s most wanted terrorist. I fully support the immediate release of Dr. Afridi and the dismissal of these bogus charges."###
11.20.2013	WASHINGTON– Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX), Rick Nolan (D-MN), and Candice Miller (R-MI) along with Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act.The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 3530) would boost support for and protection of victims of human trafficking by increasing law enforcement resources, enhancing victims’ services and increasing penalties in an effort to combat child sex trafficking, child pornography, sexual exploitation and human trafficking.“There are three different groups in the crime of human trafficking,” said Rep. Poe. “The buyer, the trafficker, and the victim. This legislation addresses all three. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act implements a new, robust and aggressive strategy to help combat human trafficking in the United States. It targets demand by treating people who buy other people like what they are: criminals. It also strengthens penalties for those who facilitate the business of human trafficking. Finally, it increases support for and protection of those who have suffered: the victims. Congress must take the lead and ensure that victims of human trafficking are no longer treated as criminals. We must end this modern day slavery that occurs in our own backyards.”“The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2013 is a comprehensive bill that includes provisions addressing some of the key issues in abolishing this modern day slavery,” said Rep. Maloney. “We focus on services for victims of human trafficking and child pornography, a critical first step in the welfare of men, women, and children who have fallen victim to these violent and degrading crimes,” said Rep. Maloney. “But this bill also holds the buyers accountable for their actions by prosecuting them as traffickers themselves. Unfortunately, few Americans realize that these crimes could be happening in your own backyard. The existence of modern-day slavery and child exploitation on such a scale is affront to our public welfare, and to our very notion of who we are as a people.”“This bill is about driving a stake into the heart of the sex-trafficking industry,” said Rep. Nolan. “It's about arresting, convicting, and punishing the predators who lure young girls into what amounts to slavery - as well as the troubled and often dangerous men who pay to victimize them further.”###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement on Keep Your Health Plan Act.“Today, the House voted to permit insurance companies to continue to offer current health care plans to their customers through 2014,”said Rep. Poe. “Today was my 46th vote to repeal or dismantle Obamacare and I remain opposed to this unworkable, unaffordable law. Over the past four years, the President has repeatedly tried to sell his nationalized health care law to the American people under the false promise that you can keep your health care plan if you like it. Now that Obamacare has been implemented, millions of Americans are finding out the hard way that the President’s promise was not the truth. Many Americans who were misled by the President simply cannot afford the more expensive, government-controlled health care plan.Yesterday, President Obama declared in a press conference that he will not enforce the law on some individuals who have lost their plans. The President cannot pick and choose which parts of laws to enforce. It takes an act of Congress to change the law. That is why the House has acted today.”###
11.08.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ---Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on U.S.-Iranian nuclear talks:“It is no coincidence that Iran wants to wheel and deal only after it has felt the pinch of economic sanctions, but reducing sanctions without verifying that Tehran is abandoning, not just freezing, its nuclear weapons program is a misguided and reckless decision. The Iranian regime has shown its willingness to lie to the world in the past, what is different now? Decreasing the one source of leverage we have will only hurt our chances to find a peaceful way to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.”###
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Founder and Co-chairman of the Victims’ Rights Caucus, introduced HR 3231, the “Continuing Protection for Victims of Crime and Law Enforcement Act.” This bill will continue appropriations for law enforcement, crime prevention programs and victims’ services under the Department of Justice during the partial government shutdown.“Victims of crime and those who protect our communities should not be victims of the Senate Shutdown, “said Rep. Poe. The first essential duty of government is to ensure the safety and security of its people. That duty does not stop now.”###
10.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, the current Continuing Resolution to fund the government expired, resulting in a government shutdown. This outcome could have been avoided but, unfortunately, repeatedly throughout this process, the Senate refused to negotiate in good faith, and the President refused to negotiate at all. After rejecting three previous attempts to fund the government by the House, tonight the Senate rejected a motion to go to a conference committee, which could have led to a compromise. The Senate and the President have made it very clear: it is their way or the highway. How did we get here? Two weeks ago, the House voted on a Continuing Resolution that would fund the government while permanently repealing Obamacare. The Senate rejected that vote. So, the House proposed a compromise bill to fund the government while delaying Obamacare and a medical device tax that is killing jobs across America for one year. I also voted in support of this compromise bill. Regrettably, with a shutdown looming, the Senate took Sunday off. Instead of offering its own compromise, the other chamber tabled the House compromise bill. Today, the House voted on yet another bill to keep the government open. This included a one year delay of the individual mandate. The President already gave big business a break from Obamacare; the American people deserve the same treatment. The bill would have also ensured that Members of Congress, all Congressional staff, the President, the Cabinet and all federal staff are treated the same under Obamacare. This is a fairness issue. Everyone should treated the same way. At the very least, the creator of Obamacare – the President - should be subject to his own law. Unfortunately, the Senate disagreed and killed yet another bill.Throughout all of this, President Obama has been missing in action. He found time to negotiate with Iran, a sworn enemy of the United States. He negotiated with the Russians over Syria. But, instead of finding time to negotiate with Congress, he spent Saturday afternoon on the golf course. He has refused to negotiate with the House, opting instead to deliver divisive attacks in press conferences. Per usual, the President blames everyone but himself. The President’s failure to lead from the top has been the driving force behind the deeply divided state of our government.The House has repeatedly offered reasonable proposals to keep the government open. The Senate and the President refused to come to the table. We got here because the President and Senate Democrats have really wanted this outcome all along.###
09.24.2013	“I commend Houston for bringing the scourge of human trafficking to the forefront in our community during Houston's Human Trafficking Awareness Month. During this month – and throughout the entire year, our community brings together federal, state and local government officials, law enforcement, prosecutors, victim advocates, health care professionals and volunteers who are devoted to fighting this modern day slavery. It is important that we continue this work together so that we can end this crime and restore its victims.”Houston recognizes September as Human Trafficking Awareness month through a variety of events including “Shine the Light on Human Trafficking” on September 24th.###
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C– The Texas Republican delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter today to every member of the United States Senate, urging senators to unite with them in the effort to defund Obamacare through the continuing resolution.The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter with signatures, please click here.“The Republicans in the House have stood up for the health and well-being of the American people and sent a clear message to President Obama: Obamacare is destroying jobs, reducing full-time jobs to part-time jobs, ending health insurance policies that people want to keep, and forcing doctors that patients loved to leave the practice of medicine.Obamacare is causing insurance rates and healthcare costs to skyrocket. Real people are being told they will not get the procedures or medical devices they need. Doctors and patients need to make these life-and-death decisions, not Obamacare bureaucrats, especially when the consequences could be fatal.The House has voted 41 times to defund, delay and repeal this flawed law, and we have successfully repealed seven hurtful, abusive and wasteful Obamacare programs. Today we passed a continuing resolution to ensure that no more taxpayer dollars are wasted on Obamacare.Now, it is up to the Republicans and like-minded Democrats in the Senate to continue the charge to defend the American people from this disaster to their health and finances. We urge you to use all of the legislative tools at your disposal, including the filibuster, to protect America from this train wreck.Now is the time for the Senate to stand up for all those constituents who spoke so passionately at our town hall meetings about the irreparable harm Obamacare is causing. They did not want it passed; it is worse than they thought; so now they want it stopped.We urge you to stand with us.”Read the FULL text of the letter, here.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02)released the following statement on H.J. Res. 59, the Continuing Appropriations Resolution of 2014.“Today the House voted on a CR that will keep the government open, get Washington spending under control and protect Americans from the harmful impact of Obamacare,” said Rep. Poe. “Senator Reid has already said that any legislation that defunds Obamacare is dead on arrival in the Senate. Why? An overwhelming majority of Americans agree that Obamacare is an unworkable law that destroys jobs, limits choice and raises cost of healthcare. The message of Americans has been clear: do not surrender our health care to the government. Congress has an obligation to reflect the true will of the people. The House has acted; it is time for the Senate to do the same.” H.J. Res 59 Funds the Government through December 15th: In order to give appropriators the opportunity to continue their work on the FY2014 bills and guarantee that House Republican priorities are reflected in the bills we send to the Senate, the House proposal will be a short term CR.Funds the Government at current levels ($986.3 billion):The CR will be a straight extension of current spending levels - nothing in current law changes and the sequester remains in place.· Full Faith and Credit:Adds H.R. 807, the Full Faith and Credit Act, to the CR, requiring Treasury to make good on public debt payments should America reach the debt ceiling. This guarantees that the White House will not be able to play politics by ensuring that beneficiaries receive their social security and disability payments by prioritizing obligations to the Social Security Trust Fund. This demonstrates the seriousness with which we are approaching the essential task of delaying Obamacare before it afflicts all Americans.Fully Defunds Obamacare:The CR will permanently and fully defund Obamacare by prohibiting all future discretionary and mandatory Obamacare spending and rescinding all unobligated balances. ###
09.11.2013	Washington, D.C.--Twelve years ago today, America found itself under attack, and our country was changed forever. The September 11th attacks were acts of unspeakable evil intended to tear our country apart, but those who sought to destroy us actually brought our nation together.As a result of the first responders and volunteers’ heroism, many got to live another day. There are countless stories of the selfless bravery that occurred on 9/11. In the face of attack, we pulled through with a remarkable spirit of unity and compassion that swept through our country.One year ago today there was another 9/11 attack on American soil. Terrorists attacked the U.S. consulate in Benghazi; four Americans, including our Ambassador Chris Stephens, were murdered. On that day we were reminded that Osama bin Laden may be dead, but the war on terror is not over. The American people and families of the Benghazi victims still await action from the Administration on Benghazi. We know who the Benghazi killers are, but justice has still not been delivered. As we remember the tragedy that occurred on 9/11/01 and 9/11/12, we should remember those who died, those who got to live, and those who continue to fight for our freedoms today in places all over the world in the name of liberty and freedom. ###
09.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H. Res 58, which would prohibit the use of funds for the use of force in Syria. There are two exceptions: a subsequent Act of Congress that specifically authorizes such use of force or an attack or imminent attack on the United States, its territories or possessions, or the United States Armed Forces.“The American people have shown overwhelming opposition to this war and Congress has the obligation to reflect the will of the people,” said Poe. “President Obama has no legal authority to defy the will of the people and engage in hostilities against the Syrian regime absent a statutory authorization from Congress or an attack on the United States, its territories, or its armed forces. This bill uses Congress' constitutionally recognized power of the purse to make sure the will of the people is not ignored."###
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) cosponsored and voted in support of the Vietnam Human Rights Act of 2013. This bill seeks to prohibit U.S. nonhumanitarian aid to the Vietnam government that exceeds the amounts designated in FY2012 unless the President confirms to Congress that Vietnam has made significant progress with respect to promoting freedom and democracy in their country.ìVietnam is still a communist country that systematically oppresses its people,î said Congressman Poe. ìWe should not send money to any government that robs the people of its own freedom. This bill will forbid additional money from going to Vietnam until we see evidence of an improved human rights record.î ###
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) cosponsored and voted in support of the Nuclear Iran Prevention Act (H.R. 850), a bipartisan bill intended to stop Iranís march towards obtaining any form of nuclear weapons. This legislation enacts economic, human rights, and financial sanctions, and it strengthens the implementation and enforcement of existing sanctions.ìIran has defiantly continued its quest for nuclear weapons, escalating our need for the Nuclear Iran Prevention Act,î said Congressman Poe. ìAs relations between our nations continue to flounder, Iran must be stopped before it gets its hands on nuclear weapons. Current sanctions should be enforced and additional strong sanctions are needed so that the people of Iran can throw off the chains of their repressive rulers and bring much-needed freedom and democracy to their country.î###
07.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime“Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.”“We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.
07.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.” “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.” “As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking. WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.” “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.” “As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking. BIPARTISAN AND BICAMERAL COALITION INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO END SEX TRAFFICKING DEMANDWASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking. WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.” “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.” “As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking. ###WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers. “I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.” “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.” “As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking. ###WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpuf WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpufWASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpufWASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpuf WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpufWASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpufWASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###- See more at: http://poe.house.gov/index.php?option=com_content&;task=view&id=9236&Itemid=#sthash.N8XQF8ie.dpuf
07.25.2013	"The Obama Administration's war on Texas knows no bounds. Once again, this Administration is singling out Texas and the actions of the Attorney General are being taken without just cause. The Supreme Court has already ruled that Texas was not in violation of the Voting Rights Act, but ironically, the Attorney General who has been found in contempt of Congress holds the law in contempt. Whether in energy, federal disasters, IRS abuses or voting rights, this Administration is at war with Texas. ì###
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement condemning Rep. Steve Kingís recent comments implying that most of the children of undocumented immigrants are drug runners, not valedictorians. ìRecent comments implying that Hispanic children brought to America by no decision of their own are thugs and criminals are malicious, despicable and destructive to the ongoing dialogue on immigration. Those who oppose any efforts to fix our broken immigration system are supportive of what we have nowóde facto amnesty. This small, ill-advised group does not speak for me or the rest of the conservatives.ì
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) along with Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Kay Granger (R-TX) and Rick Nolan (D-MN) introduced the bipartisan and bicameral End Sex Trafficking Act of 2013. This bill will help eliminate human trafficking rings by targeting the criminals who purchase sexual acts from these organizations and ensuring that they are prosecuted as human traffickers.“I am proud to introduce legislation that will build upon the important steps we’ve taken to protect victims and crack down on those that perpetrate these heinous crimes,” said Sen. Cornyn. “The End Sex Trafficking Act will reduce demand for human trafficking by helping law enforcement officials to target those who purchase sex trafficking victims.”“Human trafficking is modern day slavery, and it is occurring in our own backyard. It’s time for Washington to act”, said Rep. Poe. “The End Sex Trafficking Act targets the source of this problem: demand. In Economics 101, we all learned that the key to a successful business is demand. The human trafficking “business” is no different. In order to eliminate it, we must target and penalize the buyers. This bill strengthens and clarifies federal law to ensure that buyers of sex from minors and other trafficked victims are arrested, prosecuted, and sentenced where they belong: jail.”“As a former prosecutor, I know the horror and violence women and children experience as victims of human trafficking,” said Sen. Klobuchar. “This legislation takes important steps to empower law enforcement and help crack down on those who help drive demand for this heinous crime “Sex trafficking doesn't only occur overseas. Here in the U.S., thousands of women and girls are exploited through commercial sex each year,” Rep. Maloney said. “This is simply unacceptable; we have a moral obligation to help America’s daughters, granddaughters, sisters, and nieces. My thanks to Rep. Poe for taking the lead on this vital issue in 2013." “I have seen the permanent devastation human trafficking brings to its victims and their families,” said Rep. Kay Granger. “Sadly, North Texas is a hub for traffickers moving victims through the I-35 corridor, so I am proud to join my colleagues today in introducing bipartisan legislation that addresses this terrible crisis from the demand side. Those who buy or solicit the services of human trafficking victims drive this criminal business. If we can decrease the demand, the need for a supply will wane as well.” “We are determined that our laws be clear on two fronts: First, anyone who buys or sells a child will be caught and punished accordingly, under the full weight of local, state, and federal enforcement agencies,” said Rep. Nolan. “And second, girls who are lured by traffickers, then raped, beaten, and forced into submission, are not criminals. They are victims. And they are entitled to the same legal support, healing, counseling, education, and shelter as other rape victims. And full protection under laws governing child abuse.” The End Sex Trafficking Actis supported by Shared Hope International, Fraternal Order of Police, National District Attorneys Association, Human Rights for Girls, The American Bar Association, The National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, The National Organization for Victim Assistance, The National Network to End Domestic Violence, and Ending Child Prostitution and Trafficking.###
07.23.2013	The Cruise Passenger Protection Act would build on the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act by strengthening crime reporting and video surveillance requirementsWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Doris Matsui (D-CA), members of the Congressional Victim’s Rights Caucus, introduced bipartisan legislation to increase the safety and security of cruise ship passengers. The Cruise Passenger Protection Act (CPPA) would build on the security measures implemented by the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act (CVSSA) by toughening the crime reporting and video surveillance requirements. “In 2010 our legislation, the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act, was signed into law by President Obama. This legislation put in place critical protections for thousands of Americans who unknowingly put themselves at risk when they go on a cruise. This legislation was a great first step, but it was just a first step,” said Rep. Matsui. “The Cruise Passenger Protection Act, which I am pleased to introduce today with my colleague Rep. Ted Poe, will continue to build upon the security and safety measures aboard our cruise ships and ensure that consumers have access to accurate information and victims are given the support and resources they deserve.”“The passage of the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act in 2010 was a turning point for the safety and security of cruise passengers,” said Rep. Poe. “The Cruise Passenger Protection act will go even further and build upon that success by putting in place stronger requirements to protect victims of crime and hold their perpetrators accountable.”The CPPA builds on the passenger safety measures put in place by the CVSSA which was signed into law in 2010 by clarifying and strengthening the crime reporting requirements and the video surveillance requirements. The CPPA bolsters FBI notification requirements when an alleged incident occurs aboard a cruise ship. The bill also ensures consumers are able to access more detailed information about crimes that occur on cruise vessels, by further breaking out the data on specific types of crimes so consumers have a better understanding of what the data means. Finally, the CPPA strengthens video surveillance requirements in the CVSSA to ensure maximum protection for passengers and victims, while taking steps to avoidprivacy concerns.“Through the substantial efforts of Reps. Matsui and Poe, historic legislation was passed in 2010 to protect passengers who become victims of crimes on cruise ships. ICV members are most pleased that this new legislation will further strengthen this law to improve crime reporting and other provisions. The voice of ICV is being heard in Washington and we will look forward to working with Reps. Matsui and Poe as we move forward,” said Kendall Carver, President of the International Cruise Victims Association (ICV). Specifically, the CPPA would:Ensure a cruise vessel owner notifies the FBI within four hours of an alleged incident.Ensure that if an alleged incident occurs while the vessel is still in a U.S. port, the FBI must be notified before that vessel leaves the port.Require vessel owners to also report an alleged offense to the U.S. Consulate in the next port of call, if the alleged offense is by or against a U.S. national.Clarify that vessels must have video surveillance equipment in all passenger common areas, and other areas, where there is no expectation of privacy.Allowindividuals access to video surveillance records for civil action purposes.Mandate that all video records are kept for 30 days after completion of the voyage.Direct the Coast Guard to promulgate final standards within one year detailing requirements for the retention of video surveillance records.Transfer authority for maintaining the internet website of alleged crimes on cruise ships from the Coast Guard to the Department of Transportation.Require that the website breakout the crimes that are reported against minors and alleged “man overboards” incidents.Direct the Department of Transportation to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of having an individual on board each passenger vessel to provide victim support servicesSimilar legislation, authored by Senator Jay Rockefeller, has been introduced in the Senate today. Senator Rockefeller is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and is holding a hearing in his committee on Wednesday on “Cruise Industry Oversight: Recent Incidents Show Need for Stronger Focus on Consumer Protection.”###
07.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade issued the following statement on the European Union designation of Hezbollahís military wing as a terrorist organization: ìToday the European Union finally called it like it is and labeled Hezbollahís armed wing a terrorist organization,î said Chairman Poe. ìThis is the first step to disable and dismantle a militant group at a time where we have seen their influence and reach expand worldwide from the civil war in Syria to South America. On March 20th, my Subcommittee on Terrorism learned that no one is safe from Hezbollahís reign of terror. My hope is that this designation leads to real action, such as flight bans, asset seizures, and other measures that restrict Hezbollahís global operations. While I believe the entire organization should be blacklisted, this is a good first step. Additional punitive actions should soon follow.î
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) co-sponsored and voted for the Fairness for American Families Act (H.R. 2668) and the Authority for Mandate Delay Act (H.R. 2667), two important bills that delay for one year the mandates that individuals purchase health coverage or pay a penalty and that employers must provide healthcare or pay a penalty if they have more than 50 full-time employees. ìWith its recent announcement to delay the employee mandate, the Administration conceded what we have known all along: Obamacare is a train wreck,î said Rep. Poe. ìThis unworkable and expensive law will result in lost jobsó71 percent of small businesses say that they will reduce hiring because of Obamacare. American families and businesses have already had to adjust their budgets accordingly to prepare for the employer and individual mandates. Now the Administration wants to give big business a break while subjecting the rest of the people to the costly individual mandate. This is simply not fair. That is why the House voted to delay both the individual and the employer mandate. While this is not the permanent delay we would all like to see, itís another year that Americans are free from the shackles of government-run healthcare.î###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade, and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA) introduced H.R. 2638, the bipartisan Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act. In the midst of difficult economic times and wasteful spending of American taxpayer dollars, this bill would strengthen transparency, monitoring and evaluation procedures of all foreign aid programs. Companion legislation is also being introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD). Since the passage of the Foreign Assistance Act in 1961, foreign aid programs have spread across 12 departments, 25 agencies, and almost 60 federal offices. With many foreign aid programs without any monitoring and evaluation procedures in place, the programs donít have proper oversight or accountability. In 2011, the Administration launched ìThe Foreign Assistance Dashboard,î a public, online source designed for users to easily research foreign assistance investments. To this day, this site is still incomplete, failing to display the quality or quantity of information that was initially promised. This bill addresses both of these issues. First, it requires the President to establish and the heads of federal agencies to implement guidelines on measurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation of plans for all foreign assistance programs. Second, it codifies what is being done through the Dashboard Initiative and increases transparency of foreign assistance information available to the public, such as country development, congressional budget justifications, actual expenditures, reports, and evaluations. ìForeign aid has operated in the dark for far too long and transparency is long overdue,î said Chairman Poe. ìUnder the current system, taxpayer dollars are spent all over the world and no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Lack of transparency and accountability have resulted in massive corruption and waste. There must be measureable goals and ways to monitor how successful the assistance really is. This legislation will finally bring transparency and accountability to the American foreign aid program.îìIf Americans are going to support foreign aid they need to have confidence that it works,î said Rep. Connolly. ìThe first important step is transparency." ###
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade, along with Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, held a hearing on ìThe Terrorist Threat in North Africa: Before and After Benghaziî. The Subcommittees called the hearing to examine the terrorist threat in North Africa in light of the attacks in Benghazi and Algeria which resulted in the deaths of seven Americans. Four witnesses testified including three experts on the issue and Mike Lovelady, brother of Victor Lovelady who died in the Algeria attack. Victor Lovelady lived in Congressman Poeís district in Southeast Texas. In September, four brave Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens, died when extremists attacked an American consulate in Benghazi. Then, in January, over 800 people were taken hostage by militants at a gas plant in Algeria. These attacks were reminders that the threat in North Africa continues to grow. The Algeria attack was proof that the instability in Libya has spread and threatens American interests throughout the region. Whether itís cross border weapons smugglers, transnational drug traffickers, or global terrorist groups working through the porous and unsecured borders, we still face serious challenges.ìFor years, the publicís focus in regards to Islamic terrorism has been on the Middle East,î said Chairman Poe. ìWhile the threat still remains strong in that region, the terrorists have expanded their operations to other areas of the world, including North Africa. Today we heard insightful testimony from experts in this area as well as the tragic story of Mike Lovelady whose brother Victor died in the Algeria attack. The attacks in Libya and Algeria demonstrated the urgent need for America to be proactive in understanding the growing threat in North Africa that will only continue to inflate if we do not act now.î ###
06.24.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade, issued the following statement on H.R. 2471, the Expedite our Economy Act of 2013,î which would remove the Department of Energy from the LNG export permitting process. A 1938 law requires any company that seeks to export natural gas to first get approval from the Department of Energy (DOE) before getting separate approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Over the last 70 years, this bureaucratic hurdle was hardly noticed because the U.S. did not have the capability to mass export natural gas. That is no longer true. Technology has changed it all, and the amount of recoverable natural gas in our country has skyrocketed. There are some 18 export applications now pending before the DOE that if approved would inject billions of dollars into our economy. But the Department has only granted two applications in the last three years. "It is time to remove bureaucratic roadblocks and take the Department of Energy out of the approval process for natural gas exports," said Rep. Poe. "Unnecessary federal red tape is the only thing standing in the way of the United States exporting natural gas. Exporting natural gas would grow our economy and create thousands of new jobs. Washington should be supporting, not stonewalling, the development and exportation of this valuable resource." ###
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Vice-Chairman of the Immigration Subcommittee and Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus, issued the following statement on H.R. 2278, the Strengthen and Fortify Enforcement Act (H.R. 2278), also known as the SAFE Act. It passed the House Judiciary Committee this week. The SAFE Act aims to strengthen and expand interior immigration enforcement, and it includes language authored by Congressman Poe. The Poe Language mandates that the Department of Homeland Security establish a biometric entry and exit data system at each port of entry in the United States so that the country can keep better track of who is here on a visa and for what duration. Congressman Poeís standalone bill to protect the border, The SMART Border Act (H.R. 2200), also contains the provision.ìOur immigration system is broken, largely because we have no idea who is in the United States at any given moment,î said Rep. Poe. ìImplementing a mandatory biometric entry and exit data system at the borderówhat I call ìslide and glideî---would change that. Forty-percent of the 11 million undocumented individuals living in the United States entered legally but overstayed their visa. A biometric system would tackle this problem by giving law enforcement the ability to identify who comes, who goes and who stays.î ###
06.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in honor of Juneteenth. Congressman Poe is a co-sponsor of a House Resolution 268 which ìobserves the historical significance of Juneteenth Independence Dayî. ìOn Juneteenth Independence Day, our nation celebrates the end of slavery in America. Juneteenth marks a day of remembrance of our nationís history and of the sacrifices made for the freedoms and liberties that all Americans enjoy today. Started in Galveston, Texas, I join my colleagues in observing this historic day.î ###
06.06.2013	Washington, DC ñ This week, Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus (VRC) co-chairmen and co-founders, Reps. Ted Poe and Jim Costa, introduced legislation that would protect the Crime Victims Fund from budget sequestration which is threatening to severely reduce services for victims of crime. The fund is backed solely by criminal fines, forfeitures and other penalties, not federal tax dollars, and it has no impact on the national deficit. ìThe Crime Victims Fund is the lifeblood of victim service providers,î said Poe. ìVictim service providers do important work, helping victims heal, cope and persevere after a crime. This bill will ensure that they are able to continue that work. The money in the Crime Victims Fund is collected exclusively from criminals (not taxpayers) and is used to aid those who the criminals have hurt. Any cuts in this fund will do nothing to reduce the deficit and only rob victims of critical services they need to move on with their lives. î ìBudget decisions reflect priorities and this bill puts protecting crime victims ahead of misguided budget gimmicks,î said Costa. ìThe Victims Crime Fund has zero impact on the federal deficit but every dollar spent from the account has a huge impact on a crime victim during their time of need. We all want to fix our debt challenges, but squeezing the Crime Victims Fund doesnít move us an inch closer to that goal.îCurrent law requires that all funds not spent in a single fiscal year ìshall remain in the Fund for obligation in future fiscal years, without fiscal year limitation.î The White Houseís Office of Management and Budget now projects that the Fundís balance will be $11.431 billion in 2014. Despite large fund balances, the amount of assistance to states in 2012 was 30 percent less, in real, inflation-adjusted dollars, than it was in 2000. The federal cap on spending from the fund has lead to 630,000 fewer victims receiving services than those who gained assistance in 2007.Sequestering the Crime Victims Fund does nothing to reduce the long-term deficit, and merely further defers funding for critical, often life-saving services to victims of crime. As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victimsí rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. ###
06.06.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jessica Kahanek (Costa)202-225-3341June 5, 2013 Shaylyn Hynes (Poe) 202-225-6565 Costa, Poe Introduce Bill to Protect Crime Victims Fund Washington, DC – This week, Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus (VRC) co-chairmen and co-founders, Reps. Jim Costa and Ted Poe, introduced legislation that would protect the Crime Victims Fund from budget sequestration which is threatening to severely reduce services for victims of crime. The fund is backed solely by criminal fines, forfeitures and other penalties, not federal tax dollars, and it has no impact on the national deficit. “Budget decisions reflect priorities and this bill puts protecting crime victims ahead of misguided budget gimmicks,” said Costa. “The Victims Crime Fund has zero impact on the federal deficit but every dollar spent from the account has a huge impact on a crime victim during their time of need. We all want to fix our debt challenges, but squeezing the Crime Victims Fund doesn’t move us an inch closer to that goal.”“The Crime Victims Fund is the lifeblood of victim service providers,” said Poe. “Victim service providers do important work, helping victims heal, cope and persevere after a crime. This bill will ensure that they are able to continue that work. The money in the Crime Victims Fund is collected exclusively from criminals (not taxpayers) and is used to aid those who the criminals have hurt. Any cuts in this fund will do nothing to reduce the deficit and only rob victims of critical services they need to move on with their lives. ” Current law requires that all funds not spent in a single fiscal year “shall remain in the Fund for obligation in future fiscal years, without fiscal year limitation.” The White House’s Office of Management and Budget now projects that the Fund’s balance will be $11.431 billion in 2014. Despite large fund balances, the amount of assistance to states in 2012 was 30 percent less, in real, inflation-adjusted dollars, than it was in 2000. The federal cap on spending from the fund has lead to 630,000 fewer victims receiving services than those who gained assistance in 2007.Sequestering the Crime Victims Fund does nothing to reduce the long-term deficit, and merely further defers funding for critical, often life-saving services to victims of crime. As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims’ rights to the forefront in Congress. The mission of the Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus is to elevate crime victim issues in Congress in a bipartisan manner without infringing on the rights of the accused and to represent and to advocate before the Administration and within Congress on behalf of crime victims. ###
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) offered an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act to strengthen communication abilities between border state residents and law enforcement. The Poe amendment passed the House unanimously with bipartisan support. Congressman Poe worked with Congressman Altmire and the office of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords to pass similar amendments to the Department of Homeland Security bill in the 111th and 112th Congresses. ìThe failure of the federal government to secure the Southern Border has left border state residents vulnerable to spillover crime from Mexico,î said Poe. ìMany border areas are rural and lack wireless communications capabilities, exacerbating safety concerns. If the federal government is not willing or able to secure the border, at the very least, it must equip our citizens and law enforcement with the capability to call for help. What happened to Rob Krentz should never happen again.îAmendment Summary:The Poe amendment reallocates $10 million from the Office of the Under Secretary for Management of DHS, to the Border Security, Fencing, Infrastructure and Technology account with the purpose of being used for border wireless communications infrastructure. This funding will help border residents more quickly communicate with Border Patrol agents and law enforcement. Context: On March 27, 2010, Arizona rancher Rob Krentz was murdered 20 miles north of the border in an isolated area. The lack of communications capability made Krentz more vulnerable than he would have been otherwise and complicated the search for the assailant. ###
06.04.2013	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Terrorism, Non-Proliferation & Trade Committee, made the following statement condemning Egyptís persecution of international and Egypt non-governmental organizations (NGOs): ìThe Administration cannot continue to turn a blind eye to Cairoís continued crusade against those who promote democracy and freedom in Egypt,î said Chairman Poe. ìPower hungry leaders will only continue to tighten their grasp on their people if we continue to sit by idly. Egypt takes millions of American dollars every year while persecuting American freedom fighters. It is time for some accountability.î###
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC) and Vice Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee, joined by IRC Executive Committee Members, announced the introduction of H.R. 2220, the “Support More Assets, Resources and Technology on the Border Act of 2013” also known as “The SMART Border Act of 2013”. This legislation outlines a robust border protection strategy and includes several measures to bolster the Federal Government’s assistance in achieving operational control of the U.S.’s southern border. H.R. 2220 sets up a process for a Congressional vote to certify whether or not operational control of the border has been achieved 90 days after DHS reports to Congress on this goal. If Congress does not certify that operational control has been achieved, the bill sets up a process for hiring an additional 1,500 CBP officers and a short term deployment of the National Guard until operational control is achieved. “Washington bureaucrats have falsely preached that the border is secure for years,” said Chairman Poe. “In reality, 56% of the southern border territory is controlled by someone other than the United States. Border patrol and local law enforcement do the best they can with the resources they’ve got, but they need more help from the federal government. Washington’s continued failure protect the border threatens both the security of our people and the sovereignty of our nation. Any immigration reform efforts will be moot without making border security a reality. The SMART Border Act incorporates several common sense reforms that will ramp up support from the federal government and charge Congress, not unelected bureaucrats, with determining if and when operational control is achieved.” “Illegal immigration is one of the biggest crises facing our nation,” said Rep. Gingrey. “Given the Obama administration’s refusal to secure our borders, H.R. 2220 does so, while ensuring law enforcement officers are well-equipped to enforce existing law. Protecting American taxpayers and families must remain our top priority, particularly in these tough economic times.”“For too long, the federal government has failed to enforce our immigration laws,” said Rep. Smith. “This lax enforcement has led to unlimited illegal immigration and allowed criminals and terrorists to slip through the cracks. This bill requires real and robust immigration enforcement to secure our country and protect our communities.” “The failure of the Obama administration to secure the border threatens our national security and America’s sovereignty. I am proud to support H.R. 2220 which effectively addresses the serious problems plaguing our border security efforts. President Obama, the Commander-in-Chief, has a solemn responsibility to protect the American people and our homeland. It’s time he starts taking that responsibility seriously, and joins the House Immigration Reform Caucus’ efforts to secure the border,” said Rep. Black.“Enhancing border security must be a top priority as Congress works towards reforming our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Flores. “The SMART Border Act will assist in creating a strong and secure border by putting boots on the ground and by taking full advantage of available resources and innovative technologies. It will also mandate the full implementation of US VISIT at all points of entry to assist in putting an end visa overstays, which account for 60 percent of the illegal immigrants in our country. By putting forth essential solutions to secure our borders we can ultimately control our immigration system.” ###
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe, Chairman of the House Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC) and Vice Chair of the Immigration Subcommittee, joined by IRC Executive Committee Members, announced the introduction of H.R. 2220, the “Support More Assets, Resources and Technology on the Border Act of 2013” also known as “The SMART Border Act of 2013”. This legislation outlines a robust border protection strategy and includes several measures to bolster the Federal Government’s assistance in achieving operational control of the U.S.’s southern border. H.R. 2220 sets up a process for a Congressional vote to certify whether or not operational control of the border has been achieved 90 days after DHS reports to Congress on this goal. If Congress does not certify that operational control has been achieved, the bill sets up a process for hiring an additional 1,500 CBP officers and a short term deployment of the National Guard until operational control is achieved. “Washington bureaucrats have falsely preached that the border is secure for years,” said Chairman Poe. “In reality, 56% of the southern border territory is controlled by someone other than the United States. Border patrol and local law enforcement do the best they can with the resources they’ve got, but they need more help from the federal government. Washington’s continued failure protect the border threatens both the security of our people and the sovereignty of our nation. Any immigration reform efforts will be moot without making border security a reality. The SMART Border Act incorporates several common sense reforms that will ramp up support from the federal government and charge Congress, not unelected bureaucrats, with determining if and when operational control is achieved.” “Illegal immigration is one of the biggest crises facing our nation,” said Rep. Gingrey. “Given the Obama administration’s refusal to secure our borders, H.R. 2220 does so, while ensuring law enforcement officers are well-equipped to enforce existing law. Protecting American taxpayers and families must remain our top priority, particularly in these tough economic times.”“For too long, the federal government has failed to enforce our immigration laws,” said Rep. Smith. “This lax enforcement has led to unlimited illegal immigration and allowed criminals and terrorists to slip through the cracks. This bill requires real and robust immigration enforcement to secure our country and protect our communities.” “The failure of the Obama administration to secure the border threatens our national security and America’s sovereignty. I am proud to support H.R. 2220 which effectively addresses the serious problems plaguing our border security efforts. President Obama, the Commander-in-Chief, has a solemn responsibility to protect the American people and our homeland. It’s time he starts taking that responsibility seriously, and joins the House Immigration Reform Caucus’ efforts to secure the border,” said Rep. Black.“Enhancing border security must be a top priority as Congress works towards reforming our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Flores. “The SMART Border Act will assist in creating a strong and secure border by putting boots on the ground and by taking full advantage of available resources and innovative technologies. It will also mandate the full implementation of US VISIT at all points of entry to assist in putting an end visa overstays, which account for 60 percent of the illegal immigrants in our country. By putting forth essential solutions to secure our borders we can ultimately control our immigration system.” ###
06.04.2013	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) co-sponsored H.Res.35, expressing no confidence in and calling for the resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder: ìMy confidence in Attorney General Eric Holderís ability to lead is long gone,î said Congressman Poe. ìFrom international gun trafficking to intimidating conservatives and snooping on the press, Eric Holderís scandal ridden reign over DOJ has tarnished the Department and damaged the American peopleís trust in government. The top law enforcement officer of the land has consistently shown he is unwilling or unable to perform his job honestly and honorably. Itís time for him to goî###
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC ñ Today, PORTS Caucus leaders Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44), and Congresswoman Corrine Brown (FL-05) introduced a resolution to express the sense of the House of Representatives that the yearly receipts and surplus of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund should be fully utilized as soon as possible. The bipartisan resolution details the critical importance of strong ports to the U.S. economy, and declares that the failure to fully spend the receipts of the Trust Fund on the nationís ports and harbors ìbreaks a trust with the people of the United States.îìStrong ports mean jobs, economic growth and a more secure nation. Unfortunately, efforts to achieve stronger ports are hindered by an underutilized Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund,î said PORTS Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Poe. ìBack home, the Port of Houston has been shelling out its own dollars because of this under-utilized fund. This ought not to be. Itís time for Congress to fix this problem and make sure that the funds within the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are fully utilized.îìWhen our ports are strong, our country is strong. Unfortunately, our failure to fully spend the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund is holding back our ports, and holding back our nation,î said PORTS Caucus Co-Chair Congresswoman Hahn. ìCongress needs to commit itself to full and immediate utilization of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, not just for the sake of healthy ports and harbors, but for the sake of American global competiveness and jobs. The tide is coming in, and I think there is a growing sense in the House that we need to fix this problem today, not six years from now.î###
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Reps. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Mike Thompson (CA-05) introduced the Veterans Back to Work Act of 2013. This legislation would make the veteransí tax credit permanent and make it easier for employers to take advantage of it. The unemployment rate for veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars was 9.9% last year. For female veterans, it was 12.5%, and for male veterans ages 18-24, it jumped to 20%. Thatís simply unfortunate and unacceptable. Congress passed a veteransí tax credit to help transition our nationís warriors back into the workforce. While well intentioned, it was temporary, had complicated paperwork and took too long for employers to receive the tax credit. The Veterans Back to Work Act of 2013 seeks to fix these complications by making the tax credit permanent, reducing the paperwork, and allowing employers to have the choice to collect the credit at the end of each quarter or at the end of the year, whatever makes the most sense for them.ìItís a national tragedy to have a high unemployment rate for our nationís warriors,î said Poe. ìAfter fighting in war, the last thing a veteran should have to worry about is an unemployment line. This Veterans Back to Work Act incentivizes the hiring of our veterans with a permanent tax credit and makes the paperwork easier for businesses to do so.î ###
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade issued the following statement: ìOur friends across the pond are to be applauded for beginning the formal process of putting Hezbollah where it belongs, on the EU terror list. The European Union should move quickly on this. The United States, Israel and our European allies must stand united against the Hezbollah outlaws and their efforts to inflict terror worldwide. Hezbollahís global terror campaign must be met with a global response. Today is an important step forward in doing that.î###
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), Rep. Trey Radel (R-FL) and John Conyers, Jr (D-MI) announced they were working together on “The Free Flow of Information Act of 2013" (H.R. 1962). The legislation is based on similar legislation which passed the House of Representatives overwhelmingly in the 110th and 111th Congress.The legislation protects members of the media by providing a qualified privilege that prevents reporters source material from being revealed to government investigators except under certain narrow circumstances, such as where necessary to prevent an act of terrorism or other significant and specified harm to national security, imminent death, or harm to national security. The bill strikes a carefully tailored balance between the First Amendment and national security and law enforcement. Both Rep. Poe and Rep. Conyers are senior members of the Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over the legislation and were past supporters of the legislation. Rep. Conyers was Chair of the Committee when similar legislation passed in 2007 and 2009. Rep. Radel spent nearly twenty years as a journalist in Florida. “Democracy cannot exist without a free press, “said Rep. Poe. “A free press provides critical information to the public, including information about the activity of the federal government. The media’s ability to deliver the news provides a crucial check on government power. Maintaining confidentiality of sources is critical to ensuring the free flow of information without government interference.”“As someone who worked as a journalist for almost 20 years, this issue is close to my heart,” said Rep. Radel. ‘We need to protect every American’s right to free speech which is so often and in so many different ways carried out through freedom of the press. American’s should not fear a heavy handed government when they want to speak out on an injustice, be a whistleblower or shine light where there is darkness. This legislation ensures we protect freedom of the press and your right to free speech.”“Freedom of the Press is a foundational freedom upon which all of our other freedoms and liberties are based and protected,” said Rep. Conyers. “Given that 49 out of 50 states and the District of Columbia have special legal protections for the press, it is long past time that our federal government provides similar protections. I look forward to working with Rep. Poe and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this vital matter.”“The Free Flow of Information Act of 2013” is supported by the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB); the Newspaper Association of America (NAA); the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU); the Newspaper Guild-CWA and CBS. The National Association of Broadcasters President and CEO Gordon Smith said: "NAB strongly supports the 'Free Flow of Information Act.'. As broadcasters, we believe there is nothing more vital to preserving a vibrant democracy than the First Amendment and the freedoms afforded journalists in keeping citizens informed. We urge swift passage of this bill."The Newspaper Guild-CWA President Bernie Lunzer said: "The Newspaper Guild-CWA is outraged by the DOJ’s surveillance of Associated Press reporters’ phone records. We are gratified that political leaders from both parties stand with us and other media organizations in calling this what it is: a dangerous assault on a free press and democracy itself. But words aren’t enough. We call on Congress to take action in the form of a federal shield law. We add our name to the list of supporters of the Free Flow of Information Act of 2013 and urge its passage."###
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óThis morning, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee hearing titled: ìEyes in the Sky: The Domestic Use of Unmanned Aerial Systems.î ìThis morningís hearing on the topic of domestic drones demonstrated the growing bipartisan consensus that Congress needs to be proactive in its effort to protect the fourth amendment rights of the American people,î said Rep. Poe. ìCurrently, technology is moving faster than the law. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that rapid developments in technology do not result in the infringement of the right to privacy guaranteed to Americansí in the Fourth Amendment. Congressman Poe is the lead sponsor of the ìPreserving American Privacy Act,î which is currently awaiting markup in the House Judiciary Committee. ###
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) met with Consul General P. Harish to discuss bilateral relations with India.ìIndia is an important trading partner, friend and ally of the United States,î said Poe. ìI enjoyed talking with Consul General Harish about the economic opportunities that exist for both of our nations. Both of our nations would benefit from U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) and a streamlined, market-based immigration system that allows U.S .educated foreign workers to contribute and help grow the U.S. economy.î###
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) met with Director General Steve C. Hsia to discuss bilateral relations with Taiwan. ìI am pleased to welcome Director General Steve C. Hsia to the Houston community,î said Poe. ìAs Taiwan works toward leading peacemaking efforts in the region, we stand with them. A strong relationship between Taiwan and the U.S. is important for trade, our economies and peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region. I look forward to working with Direct General Hsia and the Harris County Taiwanese community.î###
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe voted in support of H.R. 45, a bill to repeal Obamacare (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act).ìObamacare is a train wreck for America,î said Poe. ìThe Presidentís nationalized health care system is not about care; itís about control. It turns over personal health care choices to a group of unelected bureaucrats and increases health care costs for American families and businesses. Our health care system needs thoughtful change to lower costs, protect jobs and improve the quality of care, but that can only be done by repealing the nationalized healthcare law.îCongressman Poe voted against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and has repeatedly voted for its repeal.###
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óThis week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1962, the Free Flow of Information Act of 2013. This bill would protect reporters from being compelled to reveal their confidential news sources in federal court proceedings. Specifically, the bill would maintain the free flow of information to the public by providing conditions for the federally compelled disclosure of information by certain persons connected with the news media. ìDemocracy cannot exist without a free press. A free press provides critical information to the public, including information about the activity of the federal government. The mediaís ability to deliver the news provides a crucial check on government power. Maintaining confidentiality of sources is critical to ensuring the free flow of information without government interference.îCongressman Poe (TX-02) is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee.
05.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe co-sponsored H.R. 180, the National Blue Alert Act of 2013, a bipartisan bill that would implement a national ìBlue Alertî system throughout the United States in order to properly and promptly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer has been severely injured or killed in the line of duty. The Blue Alert would closely mirror the ìAmber Alertî system, notifying law enforcement, media, and the public when a suspect is wanted for attacking a local, state, or federal law enforcement officer. The Blue Alert system is one-of-a-kind at the national level; there is only a similar alert system at the state level to inform local communities. The National Blue Alert Program will be created within the Department of Justice, which will then handle the operation and execution of the alerts.ìEvery day, around the country, peace officers put on their uniform and badge, and leave their homes to protect the rest of us from criminals but some never make it back,î said Poe. ìThe National Blue Alert Act helps law enforcement track down and catch those criminals who harm our peace officers, bringing swift justice like they deserve.î ###
05.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder regarding the alarming news that the IRS systematically targeted conservative groups in the application of the U.S. tax code during the 2012 election cycle. In the letter, Congressman Poe asks the Attorney General to direct the US Office of Special Counsel to investigate any violation of the Hatch Act. He also calls on him to appoint a Special Prosecutor to investigate the case.ìNot only does the behavior of the IRS threaten individual freedom, I believe it is also criminal,î said Poe. ìIt is unlawful for a federal agency to use its law enforcement and investigatory power as a means to harass and target certain individuals whose political ideology differs from the Administration. It would appear that such actions are violations of federal law, and the Equal Protection and Due Process protections guaranteed to every American citizen in the Constitution. Private citizens should not be punished for questioning government, this is America, not a third world dictatorship. This type of government oppression of political opposition must not be tolerated. ìPlease CLICK HERE to view the letter. ###
05.14.2013	Washington, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Committee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade, issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1580, a bill that affirms the policy of the United States regarding internet governance. This bipartisan legislation ensures that the internet remains free from international regulation. The bill passed the House with the support of Chairman Poe. ìThe House made it clear today that the United States will not be subject to the rule of the UN internet police,î said Chairman Poe. ìThis agreement permits a group of authoritarian rulers to use the cover of the United Nations to legitimize spying on and censoring its citizens. This is an affront to all who believe in freedom. Central planners from foreign governments must be exposed for what they are- rogue dictators- not given another excuse to tighten their oppression.îNote: In December, at the most recent U.N. International Telecommunications Union (ITU) conference, a coalition of governments voted to give the ITU the authority to regulate the Internet and its content. In February, the Committee on Foreign Affairsí Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations joined with the Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology for a joint hearing entitled ìFighting for Internet Freedom: Dubai and Beyond.î ###
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently introduced the Cutting Costly Codes Act (H.R. 1701) to prohibit the federal government from requiring the medical community to comply with the new set of codes under the International Classification of Diseases (ICD). The U.S. currently operates under ICD-9, which has about 13,000 diagnostic codes. HHS has set October 1, 2014 as a mandatory deadline for the health care community to implement the new ICD-10, which has 68,000 diagnostic codes. Thatís not including the 87,000 procedural codes. The federal government will require that all medical practices comply with the expanded and expensive standards next year. Estimated costs of compliance start at $85,000 for a small practice and up to $250,000 for a larger practice. ìThe new ICD-10 codes will not make one patient healthier,î said Rep. Poe. ìWhat they will do is further complicate our healthcare system, adding more burdens on our medical community. Instead of hiring one more doctor or nurse to help patients, medical practices will need to spend tens of thousands just to hire a specialist who understands the new codes. This adds a thicker layer of bureaucracy between doctors and patients. Big government must get out of the way and let doctors do what they were trained to do---help people.î ###
05.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñU.S. Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT) and Chris Gibson (R-NY) today introduced bipartisan legislation in support of an ìall of the aboveî energy approach. H.R. 1696, the Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act will modify the federal tax code to make it easier and more attractive for private capital to invest in renewable energy. ìWe need an all-the-above approach to Americaís energy future,î said Thompson. ìThis bill levels the playing field by freeing up money for private investment in renewable energy. It will help us create jobs, strengthen our national security, reduce our dependency on foreign oil and move closer to energy independence.î ìIt is time for the United States to make Middle Eastern turmoil irrelevant to our energy security,î said Poe. ìIn order to do this we must pursue a comprehensive energy strategy that empowers all sources of domestically produced energy. This common-sense bill will do just that. Itís time for Washington to make it easier not harder to produce energy in this countryîA master limited partnership (MLP) is a business that is taxed as a partnership but whose shares are traded like stock on a market. Because MLPs have access to capital at a lower cost and a more liquid financing, this makes them very attractive to private investment. Currently, only oil, natural gas, coal extraction, and pipeline projects are allowed to qualify for MLPs. This bill would simply amend the federal tax code to allow investment in renewable energy projects in the same way.Companion legislation, S. 3275, has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK). This legislation is endorsed by Third Way, American Wind Energy Association (AWEA), Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), Biomass Power Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization, Ocean Renewable Energy Coalition, Advanced Biofuels Association, Offshore Wind Development Coalition, Advanced Ethanol Council and Environmental Entrepreneurs.###
04.26.2013	Lawmakers ask for State Department to enact benchmarks for success Washington, DC – Congressmen Jim Moran (D-VA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) spearheaded a bipartisan group of 23 lawmakers in sending a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry calling on the United States to prioritize human rights in our bilateral agenda with Mexico. The letter comes in advance of President Obama’s trip to Mexico on May 2, 2012.Joining Rep. Moran in writing Secretary Kerry were Representatives Tim Bishop, Sam Farr (D-CA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Hank Johnson (D-GA), John Carter (R-TX), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), John Lewis (D-GA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Bill Foster (D-IL), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Ed Blumenauer (D-OR), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Danny Davis (D-IL).“Now is an opportune moment to work with the Mexican government to improve the situation in that country,” wrote the lawmakers. “We are encouraged by President Enrique Peña Nieto’s strong statements affirming his commitment to human rights and we believe they provide the United States with an important opening to raise our concerns with the Mexican government. We believe that a measurable increase in the number of cases of abuses that are investigated and prosecuted in civilian jurisdiction should be a key benchmark by which the State Department assesses the progress made by the Peña Nieto government on human rights.”In the letter, the lawmakers highlighted the persistent human rights violations in Mexico, including:Failure to reform Mexico’s Military Code of Justice to ensure human rights abuses by the military against civilians are tried in civilian court;400 percent increase in reports of torture by the Mexican military to obtain confessions;Failure to implement protection measures mandated under the Law for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders and Journalists; andMore than 26,000 disappearances, more than 2,000 of which involved federal authoritiesThe lawmakers continued: “The human rights crisis will not improve until there are stronger legal protections, increased human rights training for Mexico’s security forces, and more government agents held responsible for the human rights violations they commit.”"It is a sad reality that grave human rights issues persist in Mexico," said Jennifer Johnson, Senior Associate for Mexico and Border Policy at the Latin America Working Group (LAWG). "This letter is a strong statement from Members of the U.S. Congress that advancing human rights and accountability need to play a central role in the bilateral agenda with our neighbor." Full text of the letter below: April 25, 2013 The Honorable John KerrySecretary of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20520 Dear Mr. Secretary:With deep appreciation for your many years of service to the goal of strengthening U.S. foreign policy around the world, we congratulate you on your confirmation as Secretary of State. We write today to express our serious concern about the persistence of grave human rights violations in Mexico, and to urge you to make the defense of human rights a central part of the bilateral agenda with our neighbor.Now is an opportune moment to work with the Mexican government to improve the situation in that country. Since assuming office on December 1, 2012, President Enrique Peña Nieto affirmed that Mexico’s biggest challenge is to make sure that “rights established on paper become reality.” President Nieto’s expressed commitment to human rights comes at a critical time in Mexico. During the administration of former President Felipe Calderon, Mexico’s National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) saw a five-fold increase in complaints – from 534 in 2007 to 2,723 in 2012 – of human rights violations by Mexican soldiers and federal police, including torture, rape, extrajudicial executions, arbitrary detention, enforced disappearances, as well as other abuses. Unfortunately, a majority of these abuses go uninvestigated, and as a consequence, unpunished.A principle obstacle to the effective investigation and prosecution of human rights violations committed by Mexican soldiers has been the failure to reform Mexico’s Military Code of Justice so that human rights abuses committed by the military against civilians are heard in civilian, not military, court. This has been mandated by four rulings of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights and rulings by Mexico’s own Supreme Court; U.S. support to Mexico through the Merida Initiative also conditions select funds on the prosecution of abuses in civilian courts.Additionally, the widespread use of torture in Mexico to obtain confessions is also concerning. The CNDH reported a 400% increase in complaints of torture and cruel treatment in the past six years. As with other human rights violations, only a handful of those responsible for torture are ever investigated or sanctioned. For instance, data from Mexico’s Federal Attorney General’s Office (Procuraduría General de la República, PGR) shows that between January 1994 and June 2010 only two federal agents were convicted for torture.In recent years, human rights defenders have also experienced an increase in threats and attacks, including targeted killings and disappearances by state and non-state actors. In 2012 alone, the CNDH registered 51 complaints of attacks against human rights defenders. Between 2005 and 2011, the Commission affirmed that 27 defenders lost their lives.To arrest these attacks, Mexican human rights organizations successfully encouraged former President Calderon to sign the Law for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders and Journalists, landmark legislation in June 2012 creating a national mechanism for the protection of human rights defenders and journalists. However, this mechanism has not yet been properly implemented. We believe a clear commitment from the Peña Nieto government is needed to ensure that this mechanism provides defenders with immediate protection measures when necessary. It is equally important that prompt and comprehensive investigations are carried out to ensure that those responsible for threats and attacks are prosecuted and punished.Lastly, we wish to bring to your attention the distressingly high number of disappearances – estimated to be over 26,000 – that have occurred in the past six years. Of these cases, the CNDH identified over 2,000 cases of enforced disappearances in which there is clear evidence that federal authorities were involved; state and municipal officials have also been implicated in multiple cases. In April 2012, an important law creating the National Registry of the Missing or Disappeared went into force but to date it is not fully operational and there is no database of unidentified bodies and remains.This past January, Mexico’s Minister of the Interior, Miguel Angel Osorio Chong, affirmed that searching for all of the disappeared was a commitment of President Peña Nieto. An important step forward would be the establishment of this national registry and a database of remains. Given the United States’ experience with the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs), and the National DNA Index System (NDIS), we believe the United States can positively engage with the Mexican government on its registry and in Mexico’s efforts to bring answers and justice to the family members of the disappeared.Mr. Secretary, as you are aware, the State Department is currently withholding $18 million in security assistance to Mexico until the United States identifies areas of future collaboration with the Peña Nieto government on key human rights issues. We are encouraged by Peña Nieto’s strong statements affirming his commitment to human rights and we believe they provide the United States with an important opening to raise our concerns with the Mexican government. The human rights crisis will not improve until there are stronger legal protections, increased human rights training for Mexico’s security forces, and more government agents held responsible for the human rights violations they commit. We believe that a measurable increase in the number of cases of abuses that are investigated and prosecuted in civilian jurisdiction should be a key benchmark by which the State Department assesses the progress made by the Peña Nieto government on human rights.We are grateful for your efforts to assist the Mexican government meet the commitments it has made to enhance accountability and human rights. Thank you for your consideration of these important requests. ###
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1577 The McLelland-Hasse Line of Duty Act. This legislation calls for increased protections for prosecutors and judges who are in danger of retaliation or intimidation. It would also increase federal penalties for those who seek to harm public servants. This bill would also allow law enforcement officials to carry firearms in all federal facilities, federal courts, and in other jurisdictions for their protection. Senator Cornyn has introduced the companion bill in the Senate. ìLaw Enforcement officials, prosecutors and judges do the work that many are afraid to do,î said Poe. ìThey deliver justice to criminals, knowing that they face the threat of retaliation. Not one more official should die at the hands of a vindictive criminal. State and local officials risk their lives every day to protect the rest of us. It is time we take care of them.îThe McLelland-Hasse Line of Duty Act: Allows all judges, prosecutors, and law enforcement officials (both state and federal), subject to limited regulations, to carry firearms into all federal facilities, federal courts, and in jurisdictions where the carrying of such weapons is otherwise prohibited by law.Creates a new federal crime for the killing, attempted killing, or conspiring to kill a United States judge, federal or state law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer, including state prosecutors and judges.Allows all prosecutors and law enforcement officers to possess and obtain an ammunition magazine of any size.Requires the Bureau of prisons to provide secure firearms storage areas so that federal correctional workers can exercise their full right to self-defense.Adds a new no-cost purpose area to the COPS and Byrne JAG grant programs, allowing state and local governments to use existing funds to provide security details for prosecutors and judges who are in danger of retaliation or intimidation.
04.11.2013	Washington, DC ñ This week, the Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC) sent a letter to Speaker Boehner calling for a commitment to regular order for the development of any legislation related to immigration reform. ìIt is imperative that all of the committees of jurisdiction have the opportunity to analyze, debate, amend and ultimately improve the bill,î said IRC Chairman Poe. ìProceeding through regular order will result in stronger legislation. Immigration reform is too important to be crafted behind closed doors like Obamacare. The Affordable Care Act was written in the dark of night and pushed through both Chambers without proper review. Look how that turned out. The American people must know that the fate of immigration reform rest in the hands of those who they have elected to serve, not just an elite few.î###CLICK HERE to view the letter.
04.10.2013	Washington, DC ñ This week, the Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC) sent a letter to Speaker Boehner calling for a commitment to regular order for the development of any legislation related to immigration reform. ìIt is imperative that all of the committees of jurisdiction have the opportunity to analyze, debate, amend and ultimately improve the bill,î said IRC Chairman Poe. ìProceeding through regular order will result in stronger legislation. Immigration reform is too important to be crafted behind closed doors like Obamacare. The Affordable Care Act was written in the dark of night and pushed through both Chambers without proper review. Look how that turned out. The American people must know that the fate of immigration reform rest in the hands of those who they have elected to serve, not just an elite few.î ###CLICK HERE to view the letter the IRC sent to Speaker Boehner calling for regular order.
04.08.2013	"Margaret Thatcher, The 'Iron Lady', was a tenacious patriot and a trailblazer in every sense of the world. Not only was she an icon as Great Britain's first and only female prime minister, her commitment to conservative values of individual liberty and personal responsibility helped change her country and the world forever. The United States will always be grateful for her friendship. The world needs more leaders like Maggie."###
03.28.2013	HOUSTON, TEXAS--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) welcomed nearly two hundred residents of the Second District to his new Harris County West Office. During the open house, Congressman Poe visited one-on-one with neighbors, discussed their concerns and answered questions they had. Visitors also had the opportunity to speak directly with Congressman Poeís district staff to learn about the different constituent services the office offers. ìThe Harris County West Office is open for business,î said Rep. Poe. ìThank you to everyone who attended the open house. It was great to visit with and hear from different people in the Second District, including eagle scouts, medical students, teachers, small business owners and even a newly naturalized U.S. citizen. I look forward to visiting with both old and new residents of the Second District at the new Harris County West Office in the near future. My staff also welcomes you. Our door is always open.î The HARRIS COUNTY WEST office was recently opened in order to better serve constituents who reside in the new area of the Second District. The office is located at 710 N. Post Oak Road, Suite 510, Houston, TX 77024. (713) 681-8763 (TPOE)To schedule a meeting with Congressman Poe or a member of his staff please visit poe.house.gov.
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1253, the Sequester Pakistan Act. This bill would freeze all foreign aid to Pakistan until the Military Tuition Assistance Program of the Department of Defense is fully funded. This important program provides our troops the opportunity to obtain higher education that many could otherwise not afford.ìThe President is punishing the troops for the sake of politics, ìsaid Poe. ìThe Administration has handpicked programs to cut in order to make Americans feel the sequester the most. Regrettably, one of the programs on the sequester casualty list was the Military Tuition Assistance Program. Many military service members were promised tuition assistance when they volunteered to serve. Now, the White House has broken that promise. Since sequestration took place, the Administration has eliminated education funding for our troops, while at the same time increasing foreign aid to Pakistan by $37 million dollars. Pakistan has proven to be deceptive, deceitful and a danger to the United States. They are the ëBenedict Arnold Allyî in the war on terror that many of these troops have risked their lives to fight. We have a moral obligation to take care of the warriors who protect us, not the country who continues to betray us.îFACTSThe Administration has requested over $2 billion in foreign aid to Pakistan for FY 2013. The Department of Defense has a budget of $700 billion. The Tuition Assistance Program accounts for just .1% of that budget. Last year, Washington spent $12.7 million on higher education in PAKISTAN. That is more than 1/4th of the $47 million we spend on tuition assistance for American Marines. Since the sequester, the Administration has increased foreign aid to Pakistan by $37 million.The Tuition Assistance Program has allowed members of the military to take 870,000 courses and graduate 50,000 individuals for several degrees. Congressman Poe is Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
03.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ This week, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), along with Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA), introduced the bipartisan Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act (H.R. 983) to modernize the outdated Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 (ECPA). This bill protects and strengthens the privacy of Internet users from unwanted and intrusive government surveillance.Most people donít realize that their everyday activities on the Internet involve cloud computing and location-based services. Although technology has improved, our laws have not, weakening protections from government access to user-data stored from emails or social networking messages in the ìcloud.î This legislation would set clear, legal standards for government agencies to abide by before accessing usersí electronic information. Just because your email is stored in the ìcloudî and not on your computer hard-drive shouldnít mean that a different legal standard applies. An individualís property must be protected regardless of how it is technologically stored. " Technology may change, but the Constitution does not. Whether an individualís property is physical or digital, it must be protected from snooping government eyes, as required under the Fourth Amendment. It's time for Washington to modernize this outdated legislation and protect individual privacy,î said Rep. Poe. The Online Communications and Geolocation Protection Act would apply Constitutional privacy guarantees under the Fourth Amendment to an individual's digital communications and location data while minimizing the impact on law enforcement investigations. The bill would:Require the government to obtain a warrant to access to wire or electronic communications content;Require the government to obtain a warrant to intercept or force service providers to disclose geolocation data;Preserve exceptions for emergency situations, foreign intelligence surveillance, individual consent, public information, and emergency assistance;Prohibit service providers from disclosing a user's geolocation information to the government in the absence of a warrant or exception;Prohibit the use of unlawfully obtained geolocation information as evidence;Provide for administrative discipline and a civil cause of action if geolocation information is unlawfully intercepted or disclosed.
03.19.2013	Washington, D.C. ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) accepted the American Association of Port Authoritiesí (AAPA) 2013 ìPort Person of the Yearî award, along with Congresswoman Janice Hahn (D-CA). AAPA selected Reps. Poe and Hahn to jointly receive this award based on their commitment to port issues and co-founding of the PORTS Caucus. The bipartisan PORTS Caucus now includes more than 80 U.S. House members from across the country. ìBoth Congresswoman Hahn and Congressman Poe have displayed extraordinary leadership in bringing together representatives from both sides of the aisle to address the needs of our ports nationwide,î said Kurt Nagle, AAPAís president and CEO. ìThese two ardent and vocal supporters of the port industry have clearly demonstrated by their words and deeds that, given the importance of these trade hubs to the economy and national security, Americaís seaports deserve a prominent place in the national dialogue.î ìPort activity directly or indirectly impacts every home in America. Strong ports are vital to Americaís national and economic security. I am grateful to the AAPA for this award and I look forward to working with Representative Hahn and the rest of the PORTS Caucus to educate Members of Congress about the importance of our nationís ports and the challenges they face.î Congressman Poe. Congressman Ted Poe and Congresswoman Janice Hahn are the co-founders of the Congressional PORTS Caucus.
03.18.2013	Click here to view my E-Newsletter.
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1078, a bill that would make the American Community Survey voluntary. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) introduced the companion bill in the Senate. Under the Constitution, the federal government must conduct a Census every ten years to account for the population. To do so, the decennial Census includes ten basic questions. However, the Constitution does not authorize the federal government to issue an annual, mandatory survey to 3 million Americans, called the American Community Survey (ACS). The ACS asks each recipient 48 personal questions about mental disabilities in the home, personal financial information, whether you have a toilet and what time you leave for and return from work each day. Under current law, those who choose not to respond to the ACS are threatened with a criminal penalty. ìThe Federal Government has no right to force Americans to tell the government personal information that they are uncomfortable providing just because the federal government says so, said Rep. Poe. ìI have heard from countless Texans who are uncomfortable with the American Community Surveyís intrusive questions, but they feel intimidated and forced to participate because of the threat of a criminal penalty. Penalizing private citizens for not filling out a government-mandated survey is an abuse of government power.î"This bill seeks to protect citizens and addresses concerns about the level of personal information collected by the American Community Survey," Senator Paul (R-KY) said. " By making this survey voluntary, people would have the opportunity to decide what, if any, information they share with the government."
03.05.2013	Today, as schools ready for Spring Break and the Cherry Blossom Festival is just a few weeks away, the President announced that due to HIS sequestration, the people have been banned from the peopleís House. Perhaps the White House forgot what the First Lady has said, which is posted on WhiteHouse.gov:"This is really what the White House is all about. Itís the ìPeopleís House.î Itís a place that is steeped in history, but itís also a place where everyone should feel welcome. And that's why my husband and I have made it our mission to open up the house to as many people as we can." ñ Michelle ObamaTo those who have been shut out from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue: The U.S. Capitol doors remain wide open. ###
02.28.2013	Inclusion of Poeís bill to end rape kit backlogWASHINGTON, D.C.óToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement reacting to the House passage of S. 47, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, which includes the SAFER Act of 2013, a bipartisan bill that Rep. Poe introduced with Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced SAFER in the Senate. The SAFER Act reallocates existing funds to help law enforcement process approximately 400,000 untested rape kits. ìI am pleased that the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act is finally headed to the Presidentís desk,î said Congressman Poe. ìThis bill addresses the plight of victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence and provides important protections and services to victims, many of whom are women and children. I am proud that VAWA now includes SAFER, legislation I introduced to address the long overlooked problem that has denied justice to hundreds of thousands of sexual assault victims for far too long: the rape kit backlog. No one should be denied justice because of a bureaucratic backlog. America is better than that. VAWA ensures that victims get the services and protections that they deserve.îCongressman Poe is the founder and co-Chairman of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus and is a former prosecutor and criminal court judge.
02.26.2013	Washington, D.C. ñ Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus and Vice Chair of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee, along with IRC members Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21), Congresswoman Diane Black (TN-02), and Congressman Bill Flores (TX-17) released the following statement reacting to reports that the Obama Administration has ordered the release of ìseveral hundredî detained unlawful immigrants: Congressman Poe: ìThe Administrationís decision to release several hundred detained unlawful immigrants is reckless, unwise and counter to the rule of law. Potentially jeopardizing public safety in hopes of proving a political point is both dangerous and irresponsible. If this Administration was committed to fixing our broken immigration system, then it would not grant de-facto pardons. If Secretary Napolitano needs to cut her budget, she should look no further than the thousands of bureaucrats working behind desks at DHS, not those agents on the front lines protecting our border.î###
02.26.2013	Twenty years ago today, radical Islamic terrorists attacked the World Trade Center in New York City for the first time, leaving six Americans dead and wounding one thousand others. On that day the militants brought their war to American soil. We now know this ruthless attack was sadly only the beginning of larger attacks to come. Today, we remember the victims of the 1993 bombing and all the other Americans who have died since then at the hands of radical Islamic militants. The United States must remain committed to keeping the homeland safe and fighting those who seek to destroy us. Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation & Trade###
02.19.2013	Bill establishes safeguard to protect Americans from Drone Surveillance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced H.R. 637, the Preserving American Privacy Act. The bill seeks to ensure the privacy of American citizens by establishing specific guidelines about when and for what purposes law enforcement agencies and private individuals can use drones. The FAA will allow expanded use of drones nationwide by 2015. By 2030, an estimated 30,000 drones could be flying in American skies. Currently, the laws regarding the use of drones are unclear and further legislation is needed to ensure drones are not used in ways that infringe on the 4th Amendment rights of private individuals. "As we enter this uncharted world of drone technology, Congress must be proactive and establish boundaries for drone use that safeguard the Constitutional rights of Americans," said Poe. "Individuals are rightfully concerned that these new eyes in the sky may threaten their privacy. It is the obligation of Congress to ensure that this does not happen. Just because Big Brother can look into someone's backyard doesn't mean it should. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) have both expressed their support of H.R. 637. American Civil Liberties Union“Unmanned drones must not become a perpetual presence in our lives, hovering over us, following us and recording our every move,” said Chris Calabrese, legislative counsel for the ACLU. “Strict rules should govern the use of drones by the government. By requiring that law enforcement secure judicial approval before using drones, this legislation achieves the right balance for the use of these eyes in the sky.”Electronic Privacy Information Center "Transparency and accountability are vital to the use of drones in the United States. EPIC has petitioned the Federal Aviation Administration to protect the privacy rights of individuals against increased drone use, but the Agency has failed to act. We support Congressman Poe's efforts to address this problem."The “Preserving American Privacy Act”:Prohibits targeted surveillance of a individual or their property by law enforcement without a warrant. oMandates transparency during the permitting process for public accountability. Makes it unlawful for private individuals or law enforcement officers to use or operate an unmanned aircraft system that is armed with a firearm (includes explosives) in the national airspace of the United States. ###
02.13.2013	ìI applaud Mayor Parker for stepping up to address the longtime problem of a rape kit backlog in Houston,î said Rep. Poe. ìNearly 7,000 unprocessed rape kits currently sit on dusty shelves in Harris County. I urge the City Council to allocate money for this important cause.îìSenator Cornyn and I are also working to address this problem on the federal level. We have introduced the bipartisan Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2013 in the House and Senate. This legislation will help law enforcement process rape kits and bring an end to the rape kit backlog. Victims of violent crime should not have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives. Letís get this done.îCongressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is a Member of the House Judiciary Committee; Founder of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus and a former Harris County Criminal Judge and prosecutor.###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 621, the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act. This bill would prohibit federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade (or similar) program for the regulation of the release of greenhouse gases. ìIn his State of the Union Speech, President Obama threatened to unilaterally enact cap and trade policy if Congress does not. Both Congress and the American people have overwhelmingly rejected this policy in the past. The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act will put an end to any back-door attempt by the Administration to go around Congress and circumvent the will of the people.î ìIt is time for the federal government to get out of the energy business. A cap-and-trade program is a de facto tax on American business and families. It will raise the cost of energy for American families, cripple the economy and destroy jobs in the energy industry by forcing companies to take their business to friendlier lands.î said Poe. H.R. 621 The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act:Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise available for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to implement or enforceA cap and trade program; or Any new statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of one or more greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after the date of enactment of this bill.
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement reacting to North Koreaís nuclear test: ìNorth Koreaís latest act of aggression demonstrates the new regime is even more reckless than the last,î said Poe. ìPyongyang has threatened to strike the United States with intercontinental ballistic missiles. We should take these threats seriously. The United Nations must make it clear to North Korea that it must cease and desist its dangerous game of nuclear brinkmanship or face the wrath of the entire international community.îCongressman Poe is the Chairman of the Terrorism, Non-Proliferation and Trade Subcommittee. ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. ó This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), the new Chairman of the Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC), held the IRC Executive Committeeís first meeting of the 113th Congress with Reps. Diane Black (TN-6), Bill Flores (TX-17), Phil Gingrey (GA-11), and Lamar Smith (TX-21). In the meeting, the Executive Committee agreed that the IRCís role this Congress will be to serve as an active forum to facilitate Member discussion, education and debate on immigration reform and border protection legislation. ìOur immigration system has been broken for decades,î said Poe. ìNow is the time for Congress to take the lead and work together to craft a permanent solution. Politics must not continue to trump people. The IRC will serve as a vehicle to bring people together to discuss what immigration reform should look like and how it can be accomplished.î The IRC currently has 58 members. Executive Committee Members: Rep. Ted Poe (TX-2), ChairmanRep Diane Black (TN-6)Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17) Rep. Phil Gingrey (GA-11)Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21 )
02.01.2013	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey. Congressman Poe is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Non-proliferation and Trade. ìTerrorists have once again attacked American sovereign soil. The United States must work with Turkey to immediately go after the extremists who are responsible for this attack and deliver them swift justice. Those who seek to destroy us must know that America is still a force to be reckoned with.î said Chairman Poe.###
01.23.2013	Washington, DC –Today, Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) along with Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) introduced S. 80and HR 254 respectively, The Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2013. These companion bills will help law enforcement process rape kits and bring an end to the rape kit backlog.“For far too long, an unacceptable national backlog of untested rape kits has compounded the pain for too many victims of sexual assault. Today, we take a significant step toward reducing that backlog and bringing swifter justice for millions of victims,” said Senator Cornyn. “This bill enjoys broad, bipartisan support in Congress and getting this bill to the President’s desk will be a top priority for me.”“The SAFER Act makes commonsense reforms to provide local law enforcement agencies with resources and flexibility to address the nation’s rape kit backlog,” said Senator Bennet. “No victim of sexual assault should have to wait for justice while critical DNA evidence sits untested on dusty shelves. I urge my colleagues in both houses of Congress to pass this bipartisan measure as quickly as possible.” “Victims of crime should not be denied justice because of a bureaucratic backlog. It is unconscionable to let evidence sit on dusty shelves in storage facilities when it could be used to put perpetrators where they belong—behind bars,” said Congressman Poe. “It is my hope that the SAFER Act will bring to light the necessity of testing rape kits as quickly as possible in order to bring swift justice to violent criminals. Victims of violent crime should not have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives. Let’s get this done. ”“The gridlock in Washington shouldn’t create further backlog for innocent rape victims whose rape kits are awaiting processing,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “Passing the SAFER Act doesn’t use any new money or add to the deficit, while addressing a long overdue problem – ending the rape kit backlog. These audit incentive grants will help State and local law enforcement agencies to address and understand their own rape kit backlogs. Having worked on this issue since 2001, I know that having data about the scope of the backlog is vital to addressing the problem. The bill also ensures that 75 percent of Debbie Smith funds be spent directly on untested DNA evidence. By processing this evidence, we can prevent rapists from attacking more innocent victims and ensure that the survivors and their families receive justice.”Currently, an estimated 400,000 rape kits sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nation—each one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide a victim with the justice they deserve. The SAFER Act will help state and local governments conduct audits of rape kits with no new spending by better targeting existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act and ensuring more money goes directly toward testing rape kits. The SAFER Act Provides state and local governments with funding to conduct one year audits of the untested sexual assault evidence in their possession with no new spending. Requires aggregate data from the audits to be posted online to provide accountability and track their progress.Amends current law to require that at least 75% of Debbie Smith Act funds be spent directly on analyzing untested DNA evidence and increasing the capacity of labs.
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Tonight Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 334, the Keystone for A Secure Tomorrow Act (K-FAST). This legislation would allow Congress to directly and immediately approve the permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline. "Approval of the Keystone Pipeline is a matter of national security,î said Rep. Poe. "Blocking this pipeline is putting our energy security and our economic security at risk. Pipelines are proven to be an environmentally safe way to transport energy. Congress cannot continue sit idly by and watch Americans suffer as a result of this reckless decision motivated by politics. Itís time to create jobs, bring energy to the United States and make Middle Eastern politics irrelevant to our national security." ìThe obstructionists in the Administration have stonewalled the Keystone Pipeline project for far too long,î said Poe. "The Governor of Nebraska has approved the section of the pipeline in question. The ball is in the Administrationís court yet the State Department says it will continue to delay making a decision. Enough is enough. Itís time for Congress to act." Congress already has the authority to act. According to CRS, "congressional action related to permitting of pipeline border crossings is a legitimate exercise of Congress's authority to regulate foreign commerce." In fact, in 1973, Congress took similar action and passed the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act in order to build the Trans-Alaska Pipeline ,which had been delayed for years in a similar fashion to Keystone. ORIGINAL COSPONSORS: Rep. Marsha Blackburn [R-TN-7] Rep. Steve Chabot[R-OH-1] Rep. Michael K. Conaway[R-TX-11] Rep. John Abney Culberson[R-TX-7] Rep. Jeff Duncan[R-SC-3] Rep. Blake Farenthold[R-TX-27] Rep. Ralph M. Hall [R-TX-4] Rep. Steve King [R-IA-4] Rep. Candice S. Miller [R-MI-10] Rep. Randy K. Weber Sr. [R-TX-14) Other Cosponsors: Rep. Mo Brooks Rep. Stephen Fincher Rep. Pete Sessions Rep. Louie Gohmert
01.22.2013	Washington, DC –Today, Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) along with Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) introduced S. 80and HR 254 respectively, The Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2013. These companion bills will help law enforcement process rape kits and bring an end to the rape kit backlog.“For far too long, an unacceptable national backlog of untested rape kits has compounded the pain for too many victims of sexual assault. Today, we take a significant step toward reducing that backlog and bringing swifter justice for millions of victims,” said Senator Cornyn. “This bill enjoys broad, bipartisan support in Congress and getting this bill to the President’s desk will be a top priority for me.”“The SAFER Act makes commonsense reforms to provide local law enforcement agencies with resources and flexibility to address the nation’s rape kit backlog,” said Senator Bennet. “No victim of sexual assault should have to wait for justice while critical DNA evidence sits untested on dusty shelves. I urge my colleagues in both houses of Congress to pass this bipartisan measure as quickly as possible.” “Victims of crime should not be denied justice because of a bureaucratic backlog. It is unconscionable to let evidence sit on dusty shelves in storage facilities when it could be used to put perpetrators where they belong—behind bars,” said Congressman Poe. “It is my hope that the SAFER Act will bring to light the necessity of testing rape kits as quickly as possible in order to bring swift justice to violent criminals. Victims of violent crime should not have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives. Let’s get this done. ”“The gridlock in Washington shouldn’t create further backlog for innocent rape victims whose rape kits are awaiting processing,” said Congresswoman Maloney. “Passing the SAFER Act doesn’t use any new money or add to the deficit, while addressing a long overdue problem – ending the rape kit backlog. These audit incentive grants will help State and local law enforcement agencies to address and understand their own rape kit backlogs. Having worked on this issue since 2001, I know that having data about the scope of the backlog is vital to addressing the problem. The bill also ensures that 75 percent of Debbie Smith funds be spent directly on untested DNA evidence. By processing this evidence, we can prevent rapists from attacking more innocent victims and ensure that the survivors and their families receive justice.”Currently, an estimated 400,000 rape kits sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nation—each one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide a victim with the justice they deserve. The SAFER Act will help state and local governments conduct audits of rape kits with no new spending by better targeting existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act and ensuring more money goes directly toward testing rape kits. The SAFER Act Provides state and local governments with funding to conduct one year audits of the untested sexual assault evidence in their possession with no new spending. Requires aggregate data from the audits to be posted online to provide accountability and track their progress.Amends current law to require that at least 75% of Debbie Smith Act funds be spent directly on analyzing untested DNA evidence and increasing the capacity of labs.
01.18.2013	The more we learn about the Algerian hostage situation, the more concerning it is. The U.S. cannot sit idly by as spectators while Americans remain in harms way. Please continue to keep the hostages, including one of our neighbors in TX-02, in your thoughts in prayers.Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) is Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee.###
01.16.2013	Early reports to the State Department indicate that Al Qaeda operatives have taken hostages (including several Americans) at the British Petroleum facility in Algeria. I have been in direct contact with senior Administration officials handling the matter. I urge them to take swift action and do whatever is necessary to ensure the safe and prompt rescue of the hostages. Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) is Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee.###
01.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was named Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. A veteran Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Poe is known for his hard line approach to terrorist organizations and foreign governments who threaten the security of the United States. Poe also represents Harris County, which is home to the Port of Houston, a hub for international trade. He recognizes the importance of free trade and its economic impact on jobs in the United States. “I look forward to working with Rep. Ted Poe, the incoming Chairman of the Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade Subcommittee, to tackle the global threat posed by terrorism, especially the al-Qaeda network and its affiliates,” said Chairman Royce. “Of course, one of the greatest threats we face is Iran. Rep. Poe’s experience on the Committee will be a valuable resource in our efforts to stop Iran’s march to nuclear weapons.”“I am grateful for the opportunity to lead the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade,” said Rep. Poe. “This Congress, the Subcommittee will focus on a range of issues, including free trade, international terrorism and the growing threat of a nuclear Iran. Congress must be proactive in learning about the complex nature of the foreign threats we face, remain vigilant in protecting the American people against those who would do us harm, and do its part to ensure those who have already done us harm receive justice.”Subcommittee JurisdictionOversight over the United States’ efforts to manage and coordinate international programs to combat terrorism as coordinated by the Department of State and other agencies, and efforts to bring international terrorists to justiceResponsibility over nonproliferation matters involving nuclear, chemical, biological and other weapons of mass destructionOversight of matters relating to international economic and trade policyCommerce with foreign countriesInternational investment policyOverseas Private Investment Corporation and the Trade and Development AgencyCommodity agreementsSpecial oversight of international financial and monetary institutionsThe Export-Import BankCustoms ###
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) along with Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. Buck McKeon (R-CA), Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA), and Rep. Bill Keating(D-MA) introduced H.R. 22 the bipartisan Foreign Counterfeit Merchandise Prevention Act. The legislation allows Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to exchange important identifying information with intellectual property rights holders in order to identify and catch counterfeit merchandise before it enters the U.S. market. Each day thousands of counterfeit products come through our nation’s borders and ports of entry. Given the sheer volume of fraudulent and potentially harmful products and the alarming sophistication of counterfeiters and pirates, it is often difficult to tell the real from the fake. When counterfeit goods successfully enter the U.S., American workers who design and make the legitimate goods lose.“Right now, CBP officers are on the front lines of trade enforcement, but they are not allowed to share information with the people most knowledgeable about the authenticity of their products—the right holders, “said Rep. Poe. “Instead, they are faced with the nearly impossible task of inspecting all of the counterfeit and potentially dangerous goods to determine what is genuine and what is counterfeit. We are setting them up for failure. This broken system is hurting American designers and manufacturers.” “CBP should have the authority to share information on suspected counterfeit physical products,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Without that authority, consumers and companies can receive physical goods they never intended to purchase, which can have harmful results when the products affect public safety and health. This bill makes it clear that the new CBP authority is directed towards physical goods where counterfeits can harm consumers.”Background For many years, CBP routinely sought the assistance of trademark and copyright owners to authenticate suspected counterfeit or pirated products detained at the border. Unfortunately, after a questionable legal interpretation of the Trade Secrets Act, CBP directed field staff in 2008 to redact all identifying markings and codes before sending a digital image to the right holder to authenticate the product. The Foreign Counterfeit Merchandise Prevention Act provides a permanent remedy to this serious enforcement deficiency by clarifying that it is not a violation of the Trade Secrets Act for CBP officers to provide information and samples, including bar codes and identifying marks, to the right holder. It also allows for the sharing of information with rights holders who are harmed by detained circumvention devices. This legislation assures that CBP can continue to seek useful input from right holders to interdict dangerous counterfeit products before they enter the U.S. market. Likewise, the information sharing authorized by the bill ensures that genuine goods held for examination by CBP will be promptly identified as such, so that legitimate shipments will not be unnecessarily delayed from reaching the consumer markets in the U.S.Semiconductor Industry Association“The Semiconductor Industry Association appreciates Representative Poe and Representative Lofgren’s leadership in introducing this bill that would significantly enhance the U.S. government’s efforts to stop dangerous counterfeits from coming into the United States” International Anti-Counterfeiting Organization “INTA supports the expeditious consideration of legislation that provides CBP with the tools and clear directive it needs to work with rights-holder to identify potentially dangerous counterfeit and pirated products, before they enter the U.S. market.”###
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe was sworn in for a fifth term as the United States Representative for the Second Congressional District of Texas. ìI am deeply honored to have another opportunity to serve the 2nd District of Texas in Congress. During the 113th Congress, I will continue to be a strong advocate for the principles of limited government, job creation, fiscal responsibility, foreign aid reform, a protected border, energy independence and crime victimsí rights. I remain committed to ensuring that the voices of Texans are heard as Washington makes decisions that will impact all Southeast Texans.î As a former prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, Congressman Poe will continue to serve on the House Judiciary Committee , as well as the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He will also continue to serve as Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus and the bipartisan P.O.R.T.S Caucus, both of which he co-founded.Congressman Poe has two congressional district offices: one in Kingwood and one that will open soon in Houston. For more information about Congressman Poe and the services provided by his office, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov.###
01.02.2013	Washington, D.C. ñ Today, the House unanimously passed the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Reporting (SAFER) Act of 2012. This bipartisan bill originally introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) in the House and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) in the Senate will help law enforcement process rape kits and bring an end to the rape kit backlog. ìVictims of crime should not be denied justice because of a bureaucratic backlog. It is unconscionable to let evidence sit on dusty shelves in storage facilities when it could be used to put perpetrators where they belongóbehind bars,î said Poe. ìIt is my hope that the SAFER Act will bring to light the necessity of testing rape kits as quickly as possible in order to bring swift justice to violent criminals. Victims of violent crime should not have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives. The Senate should act quickly to approve this measure and send it to the Presidentís desk before the close of the 112th Congress.îCurrently, an estimated 400,000 rape kits sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nationóeach one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide a victim with the justice they deserve. The SAFER Act will help state and local governments conduct audits of rape kits with no new spending by better targeting existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act and ensuring more money goes directly toward testing rape kits. The SAFER Act Provides state and local governments with funding to conduct one year audits of the untested sexual assault evidence in their possession with no new spending. Requires aggregate data from the audits to be posted online to provide accountability and track their progress.Amends current law to require that at least 75% of Debbie Smith Act funds be spent directly onanalyzing untested DNA evidence and increasing the capacity of labs. Congressman Ted Poe is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus.###
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Tonight the House voted on "American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012". I voted "no" because this so-called 'deal' is toxic for American families and small businesses. Make no mistake about it: this bill is not intended to pay down the deficit. It is just another massive Washington spending bill in disguise. And the American people will once again be left to pick up the tab. According to the non-partisan Tax Policy Center, this "deal" in effect would raise taxes on 77% of U.S. Households by letting the payroll tax cut expire for all Americans and raising income taxes on those making $400,000 or above. And President Obama promises that there will be even more tax increases to come. It also extends unemployment benefits for a year. Congress should quit paying people not to work . Rather it should encourage businesses to create more jobs and pay people to work. Even more striking is the absence of any real spending cuts. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the bill would add $4 trillion in new deficit spending. With a $16 trillion national debt, the last thing we need is more spending. We got into this mess by spending too much, not taxing too little. How can the federal government ask the American people to pay more to foot the bill of its continued spending spree? This kind of behavior is irresponsible. I could not support a plan that allows Washington to carry on with its reckless "business as usual" behavior at the expense of those who we were sent here to serve---the American people.###
12.31.2012	The White HouseOffice of the Press SecretaryFor Immediate ReleaseDecember 31, 2012 NATIONAL STALKING AWARENESS MONTH, 2013- - - - - - -BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAA PROCLAMATIONEach year, millions of Americans face the fear, isolation, and danger of being victims of stalking. At some point in their lives, 1 in 6 women and 1 in 19 men will be stalked, and many of these crimes will go unreported and unprosecuted. During National Stalking Awareness Month, we rededicate ourselves to supporting victims of stalking and sharpen our resolve to bring perpetrators to justice.Stalking is a pattern of unwanted contact that causes victims to fear for their safety or the safety of family members. It can include implied or explicit threats; harassment; or nonconsensual communication through phone calls, text messages, or emails. The perpetrator is usually someone the victim knows. Stalking behaviors may appear innocuous to outside observers, but victims often endure intense physical and emotional distress that affects every aspect of their lives. Many feel forced to move, or change jobs. Tragically, stalking tends to escalate over time, and it is sometimes followed by sexual assault or homicide.My Administration remains committed to building a robust criminal justice response to stalking -- one that holds offenders accountable, offers protection and support to all victims of violence, and empowers them to break the cycle of abuse. In January 2012, we held the first-ever White House stalking roundtable with survivors, law enforcement officers, victim advocates, and researchers. We have built partnerships with communities across the Nation to implement anti-stalking efforts. And we continue to support nonprofit organizations and local, State, and tribal governments as they develop more effective responses to violence against women -- including direct services, crisis intervention, transitional housing, legal assistance to victims, court improvement, and training for law enforcement and courts.We are also working to address the threat of cyberstalking. While advances in technology are making this crime more prevalent, they can also pose unique opportunities to address it. Communities are developing new tools that help connect victims to local services, and State governments are updating statutes to further protect people from cyberstalking. Through our Apps Against Abuse challenge, my Administration recognized mobile applications that are empowering people to defend themselves against dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.Thanks to the dedicated work of law enforcement officials, community leaders, advocates, organizations, and survivors, our country has made great strides in combating stalking. During National Stalking Awareness Month, we resolve to keep building on this momentum until no American lives in fear of this crime.NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2013 as National Stalking Awareness Month. I call upon all Americans to recognize the signs of stalking, acknowledge stalking as a serious crime, and urge those impacted not to be afraid to speak out or ask for help. Let us also resolve to support victims and survivors, and to create communities that are secure and supportive for all Americans.IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twelve, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-seventh.BARACK OBAMA
12.30.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3159, the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act which passed the House unanimously with bipartisan support. This bill would require the President to establishóand the heads of federal agencies to implementómeasurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for all foreign development assistance programs. It would bring transparency and accountability to the foreign aid process by requiring agencies to keep the American people informed about where their money is spent and how effective the aid is. ìI applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this important legislation to modernize and reform the outdated American foreign aid programî, said Poe. ìUnder the current system, taxpayer dollars are spent all over the world and no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Lack of transparency and accountability has resulted in massive corruption and waste. There must be measureable goals and ways to monitor how successful the assistance really is. This legislation will finally bring transparency and accountability to the American Foreign Aid program. ì###
12.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, the House unanimously passed H.R. 6364, the bipartisan Frank Buckles WWI Memorial Act. The bill was introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) along with Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). This legislation (1) establishes a commission to commemorate the centennial of World War I; (2) re-designates the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City as the ìNational World War I Museum and Memorial;îand (3) establishes a new, stand-alone World War I Memorial on the National Mall.ìThe worst casualty of war is to be forgotten,î said Poe. ìToday, the House let the world know that we will never forget the heroes of World War I. More soldiers died during World War I than in Korea, Vietnam, both Iraq Wars and Afghanistan combined. It is only fitting that they are honored in our nationís capitol before the centennial of the Great War.Corporate Frank Buckles was the last living World War I veteran. It was his wish to see a National World War I Memorial in Washington, D.C. Today we salute Corporal Buckles and the rest of the Doughboys who fought over there. I hope the Senate and the President will do the same.îìTed Poeís noble cause to establish a memorial to World War I veterans is closer to reality with the passage of our bipartisan bill today,î said Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). ìI am grateful to Ted for the collegial and bipartisan way we worked together to reach a resolution that satisfied us all.îìWe have been to this spot before, and we have even had the House vote on and approve similar legislation once before,î said Congressman Cleaver(D-MO). ìSo it is not time to prematurely proclaim victory. But this is a promising sign of progress, and I will continue to work to see that the Kansas City region gets what it so richly deserves in the designation of Kansas Cityís Liberty Memorial.î ###
12.07.2012	ìDecember 7, 1941, a date that will live in infamy,'' were words spoken by President Franklin D. Roosevelt that became forever embedded in the hearts and minds of patriots across our land, igniting and launching a nation into the fiery trenches of battle. Those of that Greatest Generation proved that when the peace of this nation is threatened, our people will stand up and fight back, bringing the thunder of God upon our enemies. Defending freedom and liberty was the battle cry of the sailors and soldiers that died 71 years ago at Pearl Harbor. We must continue to remember December 7th 1941 and the Americans who stood tall and kept the flame of America glowing brightly.###
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, the House Natural Resources Committee passed H.R. 6364, the Frank Buckles WWI Memorial Act, by unanimous consent. The bill was introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) along with Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). This bipartisan legislation would (1) establish a commission to commemorate the centennial of World War I; (2) re-designate the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City as the ìNational World War I Museum and Memorial;îand (3) establish a new, stand-alone World War I Memorial on the National Mall.ìI am pleased that the Natural Resources Committee unanimously decided to send the Frank Buckles WWI Memorial Act to the House floor. The centennial of World War I is quickly approaching. Congress must pass this bipartisan legislation immediately and send it to the Presidentís desk. It is past time for Washington to honor Corporal Buckles and the rest of the Doughboys who fought over there.î###
12.04.2012	Washington, DC ñToday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) introduced H.R. 6628, The Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Registry (SAFER) Act of 2012. This bipartisan bill will help law enforcement process rape kits. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced the Senate companion bill in May. ìVictims of crime should not be denied justice because of a bureaucratic backlog,î said Poe. ìIt is my hope that the SAFER Act will bring to light the necessity of testing rape kits as quickly as possible in order to bring swift justice to violent criminals. Victims of violent crime should not be left in the dark about the status of their case and have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives.""I'm proud to join in sponsoring the new-and-improved SAFER Act with my friend and colleague Rep. Poe," Maloney said. "This version more closely matches the version voted out of the Senate Judiciary Committee and moves us that much closer to final passage-- without appropriating any new funds."Too many rape kits are sitting untested-- either in labs or in law enforcement storage facilities not even submitted to a lab! By establishing a grant mechanism to conduct audits of unprocessed kits to measure the backlog, and increasing the percentage of funds required to be used in kit processing, we can help reach the goal of zero backlog--giving rape victims closure that everything has been done to apprehend their attackers."Currently, an estimated 400,000 rape kits sit untested in labs and on police storage shelves across the nationóeach one of them holding the potential to solve a crime, imprison a rapist and provide a victim with the justice they deserve. The SAFER Act will help state and local governments conduct audits of rape kits with no new spending by better targeting existing funds under the Debbie Smith Act.The SAFER Act Provides state and local governments with funding to conduct one year audits of the untested sexual assault evidence in their possession. Creates a national registry to help track these audits, prioritize the analysis of untested rape kits and better target existing Debbie Smith Act appropriations. Amends current law to require that at least 75% of Debbie Smith Act funds be spent directly on either analyzing untested DNA evidence or increasing the capacity of labs. ###
11.30.2012	Washington, D.C. ñToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in favor of H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs Act, a bipartisan bill that will boost global competitiveness, generate more jobs, and stimulate our economy by enhancing the green card system for foreign graduates of American universities who obtain degrees in the science, technology, mathematics, and engineering (STEM) fields. This bill would cancel the current visa lottery program and redistribute approximately 55,000 green cards to the most qualified graduates of American universities with these specific degrees. The objective of the bill is to preserve American ingenuity, strengthen our economy, and give these talented students a chance to call America ìhomeî. ìWhen we are training students from all around the world at American universities, they learn our secrets to ingenuity. Instead of sending them back overseas to compete against us, we should give them a chance to stay here and create the next Google or Apple. America has always been the birthplace of innovation, letís keep it that way.î###
11.02.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, inquiring into the source of weapons used in the September 12 terrorist attack in Benghazi. In the letter, Congressman Poe asked Secretary Panetta if the United States had furnished any guns and weapons to rebel groups in last yearís Arab Spring and if so, how we are keeping track of those guns and weapons. To view the letter, click here. ###
11.01.2012	Yesterday, I spoke with Texas Secretary of State Hope Andrade and the Director of Elections about the complaints my office has received about active military not being able to vote. If you are impacted by this issue, here is what you need to know: 1)If you are having trouble getting your ballot, please contact the Texas Secretary of Stateís office immediately @ 512.463.5650.2)You can also submit an official complaint here: http://www.sos.state.tx.us/elections/contact.shtml3)All ballots must be received by November 13, 2012. The Secretary of Stateís office is working hard to ensure that all members of our military can exercise their right to vote. Members of the Armed Services fight daily in order to protect our liberty; we must protect theirs. If you have any other questions, please call my office at 281-446-0242.
10.24.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.óOn Thursday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a House Judiciary Crime Subcommittee Field Forum on the domestic use of drones. The Forum will take place in the Shell Auditorium at Rice University. Other Members of Congress including Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Congresswoman Sandy Adams (FL--24) and Congressman Hank Johnson (GA-4) will be present to listen to witness testimony and ask questions about domestic drones. The policy forum, titled ìDomestic Drones: What are the limits?î will bring together law enforcement officials and experts in the field to educate Members of Congress and the community on the implications of the increased use of drones in the United States. ìIt is estimated that by 2030, 30,000 drones will be flying in American skies,î said Poe. ìCongress has the obligation to proactively ensure that the Fourth Amendment rights of private citizens are protected in this new ìdrone worldî by establishing guidelines about when and for what purposes law enforcement agencies, private citizens, and businesses can use drones. I look forward to hearing from experts in the field on this issue.îWITNESSES 1. Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia 2. Amie Stepanovich, Counsel the Electronic Privacy Information Center 3. Chris Calabrese, Legislative Counsel, American Civil Liberties Union 4. David Leebron, President, Rice University (and former Dean of Columbia Law School) 5. Todd E. Humphreys, Professor of Aerospace Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin 6. Gretchen West, Executive Vice President, Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International 7. Commander Philip Duane Steen, Texas Department of Public Safety 8. Professor David Crump, Professor of Law at the Houston University Law Center NOTE: ALL MEDIA INTERESTED IN ATTENDING FORUM MUST RSVP TO SHAYLYN HYNES AND B.J. ALMOND (Shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.gov and Balmond@rice.edu) BY 9:00PM WEDNESDAY EVENING. MEDIA CHECK IN WILL BEGIN PROMPTLY AT 9:00AM THURSDAY. A LIVE WEBCAST OF THE FORUM WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR MEDIA WHO ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND. TO VIEW THE LIVE WEBCAST GO TO: jones.adobeconnect.com/r5tvzws7ooe/
10.22.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Lacey Hansonmedia@ijm.org 703-465-5495TEXAS MEMBER OF CONGRESS REP. TED POE NAMED “ABOLITION CHAMPION” IN NEW ANTI-SLAVERY ONLINE ACTION CENTERFreedomCommons.org provides first-ever ratings of members of congress and anti-slavery support; equips Texas residents to connect and take action in their communitiesWASHINGTON, D.C. (October 22, 2012)—International Justice Mission (IJM), a human rights agency that brings rescue for victims of slavery, sexual exploitation and other forms of violent oppression, launched The Freedom Commons (freedomcommons.org), an online destination for anti-slavery advocates to combat modern-day slavery and human trafficking. As part of the site’s congressional scorecard, a tool that enables Americans to track support of anti-slavery policies by members of congress, Rep. Ted Poe (R-02) from Texas was rated “Champion,” the scorecard’s highest tier.Rep. Ted Poe (R-02) was recognized for co-sponsoring the End Trafficking in Government Contracting Act (H.R. 4259), the International Violence Against Women Act of 2010 (H.R. 4594), the Domestic Minor Sex Trafficking Deterrence and Victims Support Act of 2010 (H.R. 5575), among many other actions tied to the support of anti-trafficking and victim protection laws.On FreedomCommons.org, Texas residents can promote strong anti-trafficking legislation at the federal and state level through engaging in action-based campaigns, find local anti-trafficking events in Texas and connect with others in their local community and around the country.The site’s first national call to action is directed towards the future U.S. president and calls on 25,000 Americans to urge both President Barack Obama and former Governor Mitt Romney to make ending slavery in the U.S. and around the world a priority in the next term if elected. Other priorities include passing the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act, the blueprint for U.S. leadership in the fight against trafficking at home and abroad, and a campaign asking major supermarket chains to guarantee slavery-free tomatoes.IJM led a critical online movement in the U.S. this year, garnering 73,000 signatures for an anti-slavery petition asking President Obama to exert his leadership and eliminate slavery in the U.S. supply chain. On September 25, one of IJM’s main asks in the petition was met, as the President addressed the issue of modern day slavery and delivered an executive order to eradicate slavery in U.S. government contracts, while also explicitly recognizing IJM as leader in the abolitionist movement.Already working at the forefront of anti-slavery casework in several developing countries around the world, IJM created The Freedom Commons to amplify the social demand of millions of Americans and empower them to lead the charge to eradicate modern-day slavery.“Advocates absolutely make a difference—especially today when individuals are equipped with more online and offline tools than ever to create social demand and build political will,” said Holly Burkhalter, vice president of government relations at International Justice Mission. “The Freedom Commons will empower advocates further – to learn more about what their own policymakers are doing about slavery so they can ask the right questions, or get engaged with tangible action and connect with like-minded abolitionists locally.”Users can take action on The Freedom Commons through:Tracking elected officials’ engagement in anti-slavery policies through the Justice Campaigns Congressional Scorecard –this unique scorecard tracks all U.S. Members of Congress – Senate and House of Representatives – and their activities to support anti-trafficking legislation.National Advocacy –members can engage on national-level anti-trafficking legislation change, take action through various campaigns and learn more about federal bills and programs.State Advocacy –the site provides the latest information on existing laws and pending anti-trafficking legislation in every state, ways to take action to strengthen anti-trafficking policies, and directly reach out to members of Congress.Local Groups –anyone who cares about ending slavery can create or join a local group, finding local events and connecting with other abolitionists in their communities. Resources – users can learn more about anti-trafficking legislation or downloading tools on how to meet with elected officials.The site’s name, The Freedom Commons, was inspired by William Wilberforce’s Clapham Common, a group in the late 18th century that gathered to abolish the slave trade. The Freedom Commons was crafted by Domain7—a Washington, DC-based digital agency with a passion for sharing human stories through the web. This new resource will empower users to ensure that the U.S. is also a leader in combatting trafficking. Visit The Freedom Commons at freedomcommons.org.Learn more about International Justice Mission at http://www.ijm.org/who-we-are.About IJM Justice CampaignsIJM Justice Campaigns mobilizes people around the country in support of U.S. policies that combat modern-day slavery and promote the development of public justice systems abroad to protect the poor from violent oppression. Working with individuals, students, churches, and volunteer state advocacy leaders, we encourage national and state policymakers to use their influence to champion the rights of the poor and vulnerable. Learn more at freedomcommons.org.About International Justice MissionInternational Justice Mission is a human rights agency that brings rescue to victims of slavery, sexual exploitation and other forms of violent oppression. IJM lawyers, investigators and aftercare professionals work in 16 communities in developing countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America with local officials to secure immediate victim rescue and aftercare, to prosecute perpetrators and to ensure that public justice systems - police, courts and laws - effectively protect the poor. Learn more at ijm.org. # # #
10.16.2012	ìIt is disturbing that this Administration continues to do anything necessary to keep the truth about Fast and Furious from the American people,î said Poe. ìIt seems the Administration has something to hide. Congress has the obligation to pursue the truth because the Department of Justice refuses to tell the truth. The Legislative Branch should not have to sue the Executive Branch for documents it is entitled to see in the first place. This Administration, the self-proclaimed ìmost transparentî in history, has gone to great lengths (even invoking Executive Privilege) to make sure the information in those documents is kept under lock and key. The shared goal of Congress and the DOJ should be to work together to investigate Fast & Furious and prevent something as reckless as this from ever happening again. Unfortunately, it appears that the only goal of the Administration is to protect the Attorney General.î###
10.04.2012	KINGWOOD, TEXASóThis week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will begin his annual military Christmas card drive. Christmas cards and holiday cards will be collected and distributed to American service men and women who are currently serving overseas. Individuals and community groups are encouraged to participate and show their support for those who bravely protect our country. Constituents are asked to drop off cards addressed to ìDear Service Memberî to one of Congressman Poeís District Offices located in Kingwood or Beaumont. We regret that we are unable to forward cards with glitter, phone numbers, addresses or e-mail addresses. All cards must be received before December 1, 2012 Western District Office1801 Kingwood Dr., Suite 240Kingwood, Texas 77339281-446-0242Eastern District Office505 Orleans Street, Suite 100Beaumont, TX 77701409-212-1997
09.27.2012	HOUSTON, TXóLast night, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) met with Ambassador and Korean Consul-General Suk-bum Park, City Councilman Randy Sim, business owners, faith leaders and other members of the Korean-American community at the Korean Community Center in Spring Branch. During the meeting, attendees discussed the implementation of the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement and its positive economic impact on Houston; the economic advantages of starting a direct flight from Houston to Seoul and other issues related to U.S-South Korea bilateral relations. Congressman Poe is a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
09.24.2012	Washington, D.C. - ìToday, Iranian President Ahmadinejad struck again when he declared in front of the U.N. General Assembly that Israel would be 'eliminated.' This is not the first time weíve heard this foreign terrorist dictator threaten to wipe Israel off the map. The U.S. should take this saber rattling warmonger seriously because he means what he says. The same radicals who wish to kill innocent Israelis are enemies of America. The world is on notice that Ahmedinejad is advocating war. The little fella from the desert is a self-proclaimed enemy of world peace, and as such he should not be allowed in the United States or allowed to address the United Nations." ###
09.21.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ ìSecretary of State Hillary Clintonís expected decision to delist the People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran (MEK) from the Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) list is long overdue, but a much welcomed and warranted decision,î said Poe. ìThe MEK long ago renounced violence, and in recent years, has been actively working with US intelligence agencies to get information on activities inside Iran. Recently, we have seen that the real terrorists are the mullahs of Iran and the tiny tyrant in the desert, Mahmoud Ahamadinejad, not the freedom fighters hoping for a democratic Iran.î In March 2011, Congressman Ted Poe, a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced H.Res. 60, urging the Secretary of State to remove the Peopleís Mojahedin Organization of Iran from the Department of State's list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations. The bill has 98 bipartisan cosponsors.###
09.21.2012	Bill would establish a bill of rights for air travelers Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 6449, the Air Travelers’ Bill of Rights Act. This legislation will establish a bill of rights to protect the basic rights of air travelers, while strengthening airport security operations. The bill serves as a companion bill to S. 3302, which was recently introduced by Senator Rand Paul (KY) in the Senate. Every day, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening procedures violate the rights and privacy of innocent travelers. It’s time to put an end to this. We have all seen the reports and pictures of nuns, children, and grandparents being patted down by aggressive TSA agents. It’s time for Congress, and the American people, to step back and ask ourselves: “Is this really making us safer?” A recent report from the House Committee on Homeland Security stated: “Eleven years after 9/11, the American people expect to see tangible progress in transportation security, with effective operations that respect both their privacy and their wallets. The private sector is best suited to this challenge, not the federal government.” Yet, today, the TSA is either unable, or simply refuses, to address the privacy concerns of the travelling public or to move forward on mandates to privatize elements of the agency. Passengers are forced to go through scanners whose safety has not yet been proven. This has to stop; it is time for Congress to take action.“TSA procedures have crossed the line, violating every traveling American’s right to Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable searches. A trip to the airport these days leaves Americans with embarrassing choices: go through a peek-a-boo body scanner or be groped in an enhanced pat-down . That’s not much of a choice at all,” said Poe.Among the 17 minimum rights laid out in the passenger Bill of Rights: A TSA screener "opt-out" for airports, allowing them access to the Screening Partnership Program (SPP) and private screeners; A one-year deadline to implement a screening process for pre-cleared frequent-flyers at all airports with more than 250,000 annual flights; Authority to permit travelers who fail to pass imaging or metal detector screening to choose to be re-screened rather than subjected to an automatic pat-down; Expansion of canine screening at airports, a more effective and less invasive method of screening passengers for explosives, as well as a strong deterrent; Eliminating unnecessary pat-downs for children 12 years of age or under; Right of parents to stay with their children during the screening process; Guaranteeing a traveler's right to request a pat-down using only the back of the hand; Protection of a traveler's right to appropriately object to mistreatment by screeners; Protection of a traveler's right to decline a backscatter X-ray scan, a screening method with potentially harmful health effects; andProtection of a traveler's right to contact an attorney if detained or removed from screening. Original cosponsors of the bill include: Representatives Steve Pearce (NM), Jeff Duncan (SC), Bill Posey (FL), Dennis Ross (FL), Joe Walsh (IL), Dan Burton (IN), and Roscoe Bartlett (MD).Congressman Ted Poe is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee.
09.20.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ Today, Representatives Ted Poe (R-TX) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation in support of an ìall of the aboveî energy approach. H.R. 6437, the Master Limited Partnerships Parity Act, will modify the federal tax code to make it easier and more attractive for private capital to invest in renewable energy.A master limited partnership (MLP) is a business that is taxed as a partnership but whose shares are traded like stock on a market. Because MLPs have access to capital at a lower cost and a more liquid financial approach, this makes them very attractive to private investment. Currently, only oil, natural gas, coal extraction, and pipeline projects are allowed to qualify for MLPs. This bill would simply amend the federal tax code to allow investment in renewable energy projects in the same way.ìAs recent studies have shown, it is entirely possible that North America could be 100% energy independent in the near future. One way to achieve this goal is to produce as much domestic energy as we can. This bill, along with increased domestic oil and gas production, helps us get closer to that goal and will create jobs in the process,î said Congressman Ted Poe.ìWe need an all-the-above approach to Americaís energy future,î said Congressman Mike Thompson. ìThis bill levels the playing field and frees up money for private investment in renewable energy. It will help us create jobs, strengthen our national security, reduce our dependency on foreign oil and move closer to energy independence.î Companion legislation, S. 3275, has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.). This legislation is endorsed by Third Way, American Wind Energy Association (AWEA), Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), Biomass Power Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization, Ocean Renewable Energy Coalition, Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), Advanced Biofuels Association, Offshore Wind Development Coalition, Advanced Ethanol Council and Environmental Entrepreneurs. ###
09.19.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ ìThe release of the Department of Justiceís Inspector Generalís report on Operation Fast and Furious is a confirmation of what many of us in Congress have suspected all along. Despite the Attorney Generalís repeated denials and political games, the truth is that DOJ headquarters either knew, or should have known, about this reckless and illegal operation as early as October of 2009. Yet, as the DOJís own Inspector Generalís report so shows, they did nothing to stop it. That fact leaves the American people with one conclusion; we either have an Attorney General who was asleep at the wheel, or an Attorney General who has incredibly poor judgment. Regardless of which one of those options is the truth, the outcome should be the same. Attorney General Holder should take responsibility for this botched operation and resign immediately.î###
09.19.2012	Bill seeks to stop advanced degree holders from competing against US companies Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Ted Poe signed on as an original co-sponsor to H.R. 6429, the STEM Jobs Act, a bipartisan bill that will increase global competitiveness, create more jobs and stimulate our economy by enhancing the green card system for foreign graduates of American universities who obtain degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Every year, competitive students from all over the world come to America to attend some our top schools, including the University of Texas ñ Austin, for advanced degrees in the STEM fields. Under our broken immigration system, employers and students face hurdles in that ultimately send these American-educated and trained students back to their home country where they compete with U.S. companies. To rectify this, the STEM Jobs Act will cancel the lottery visa program and redistribute up to 55,000 green cards to the best qualified graduates of American universities with STEM degrees. This replaces the lottery system of arbitrary per country caps on visas with a system that allows the U.S. to get the best and the brightest the world has to offer. Letís allow U.S. educated students with advanced degrees help U.S. companies compete globally rather than sending them overseas to compete against us. Letís give these smart, highly trained students a chance to call America ìhomeî instead of going to work for one of our global competitors. Studies have shown that STEM graduates, on average, create 2.6 American jobs. In fact, between 1995 and 2005, foreign-born STEM workers founded half of the firms in Silicon Valley. Do we really want the next Google or Apple to be created abroad? America has always been the birthplace of innovation - letís keep it that way. When these foreign students come to America for our education, they also learn the secrets to American ingenuity. The STEM Jobs Act will allow these talented students to use their advanced degrees to help U.S. companies and strengthen our economy instead of competing against us.Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the Immigration Subcommittee.
09.17.2012	Bill would terminate Pakistanís designation as a major non-NATO allyWASHINGTON, D.C.óOn Friday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 6391, a bill to remove the major non-NATO ally (MNNA) status from Pakistan. ìItís time to break with Pakistan, but at the very least, we should stop providing them the eligibility to obtain our own sophisticated weaponry in an expedited process. Too many of our own men and women have died because of Islamabadís treachery.îIn 2004, then-President Bush granted Pakistan MNNA status in an effort to get Pakistan to help the U.S. fight al-Qaeda and the Taliban. MNNA status is significant, granting critical benefits in the areas of foreign aid and defense cooperation. A MNNA country is eligible for priority delivery of defense material, an expedited arms sale process, and a U.S. loan guarantee program, which backs up loans issued by private banks to finance arms exports. It can also stockpile U.S. military hardware, participate in defense research and development programs, and be sold more sophisticated weaponry.Eight years after its designation, the evidence shows that Pakistan has in fact been no ally of the U.S. It has cut off the supply route to our troops in Afghanistan, refusing to re-open it without the U.S. apologizing and paying three times as much as before. It harbors and cooperates with the Taliban who kill American troops. The U.S. Embassy in Kabul, which is American soil, was twice attacked by what U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Ryan Crocker described as ìPakistan-based insurgents.î Last fall, then Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Mike Mullen called the terrorist Haqqani network in Pakistanís tribal regions, the suspect behind the embassy attack, a ìveritable armî of Pakistanís intelligence service. Most recently, Islamabad arrested and convicted the heroic doctor who, according to Defense Secretary Leon Panetta ìintelligence that was very helpfulî in identifying the exact location of Osama bin Laden. Pakistan is the Benedict Arnold nation in the list of countries that we call allies. Itís time to remove a designation that brings privileges it does not deserve.Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Anti-Terrorism Caucus.
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was named a Guardian of Small Business. The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) honored him for his strong voting record during the 112th Congress in support of American small businesses and owners.ìIn the 112th Congress, Representative Ted Poe proved that he is a champion of small business. The Guardian of Small Business Award is a legislative award given to the U.S. Representatives and Senators who vote to promote and protect the right of small-business owners to own, operate and grow their business,î said Dan Danner, President and CEO of NFIB. ìSmall businesses are the backbone of the American economy, creating 65% of new jobs over the past 17 years.î said Poe. ìI will continue to support pro-growth legislation that helps our small businesses and job creators in Congress.î###
09.13.2012	Garretts to be recognized at national event in Washington, D.C.BEAUMONT, Texas – Rep. Ted Poe has selected Beaumont-residents Ivory and Monica Garrett as 2012 Angels in Adoption awardees for their outstanding advocacy for foster care and adoption. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which orchestrates the Angels in Adoption™ program, will honor the Garretts, along with more than 150 Angels, at an awards ceremony and gala event in Washington, D.C., September 12, 2012. The Garretts were nominated by Buckner Children and Family Services for their selfless leadership and advocacy for children who have been neglected or abused. The Garretts have a tender place in their hearts for special needs children. At any given time the Garretts house between eight and 10 children, each child is treated with respect as the Garretts look past their handicaps and capitalize on their strengths.“The Garretts see what they do as a ministry and a calling,” said Laura May, administrator for Buckner Children and Family Services in Beaumont. “You can tell that the Garretts genuinely love these kids by the way they go above and beyond to treat each child with the highest regard as individuals.”The Angels in Adoption program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. In addition to the more than 150 local angels from around the country, several “National Angels” will also be recognized at the ceremony and gala for their dedication and commitment nationally and internationally to child welfare on a grand scale. Former National Angels include First Lady Laura Bush, Patti LaBelle, Jane Seymour, Muhammad Ali, the late Dave Thomas, Steven Curtis Chapman, Bruce Willis, Alonzo Mourning, Rhea Perlman and Kristin Chenoweth. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is the elimination of the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. The Angels in Adoption™ program was established in 1999 as a Congressional press conference to honor outstanding individuals. Since then, the program has developed into a yearlong public awareness campaign culminating in an extraordinary awards Gala and celebration in Washington, D.C. For more information visit www.angelsinadoption.org. About Buckner International:For more than 133 years, Buckner International has been transforming lives through hands-on ministry, serving the most vulnerable from the beginning to the ending of life. Buckner is one of the oldest and most unique faith-based social service organizations of its kind, serving more than 450,000 people each year in the United States and 18 countries worldwide. ###
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) along with Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO) and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) introduced H.R. 6364, the Frank Buckles WWI Memorial Act. This bipartisan bill would (1) establish a commission to commemorate the centennial of World War I; (2) re-designate the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City as the ìNational World War I Museum and Memorial;î and (3) establish a new, stand-alone World War I Memorial on the National Mall. ìThe worst casualty of war is to be forgotten,î said Poe. ìThe centennial of World War I is quickly approaching. Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand and France already have plans in place to commemorate the Great War, but what is America going to do to honor the heroes of World War I? More soldiers died during World War I than in Korea, Vietnam, both Iraq Wars and Afghanistan combined. Those warriors should not be forgotten in our nationís capitol. Corporate Frank Buckles was the last living World War I veteran. It was his wish to see a National World War I Memorial in Washington, D.C. I hope that we do the honorable thing and salute Corporal Buckles and the rest of the Doughboys who fought over there.î###
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ Eleven years ago today, America found itself under attack, and the world was changed forever. The September 11th attacks were acts of unspeakable evil intended to tear our country apart, but those who sought to destroy us actually brought our nation together. Today we reflect and remember the victims and their families: the firefighters, policemen, and other first responders that rushed toward the chaos so that others may live. As we remember those who died that day, we also honor the men and women in uniform who have fought and given their lives since then in the name of keeping us safe. We will not forget. ###
09.07.2012	Washington, D.C. ñI was pleased to learn that the Administration took a significant step forward in fighting terrorists and announced that the U.S. will designate the Haqqani network, one of the most violent terrorist operations, as an official Foreign Terrorist Organization, as my bill, H.R. 3073, would have required it to do. It has been nearly a year since the Haqqani network attacked a United States military base in Afghanistan, injuring 77 United States troops and killing 5 Afghans. And, after two years of debate over whether this action would offend Pakistan, we have finally called it like it is. This designation sends an important public message to Pakistan that cooperation with terrorists will not be tolerated and that the full force of the U.S. is against the Haqqani network. Itís about time. ###
08.27.2012	KINGWOOD, TEXAS ñ On Wednesday, August 29, 2012, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a ìCongress after Hoursî event at the Pearl Fincher Museum in Spring. During the informal come and go event, neighbors will have a chance to briefly visit one-on-one with Congressman Poe. This will give individuals the chance to share their concerns and ideas. The event is Back to School themed and neighbors are encouraged to bring their children to visit with Congressman Poe. Attendees who have questions about individual casework will be able to speak with members of the Congressmanís staff, who will also attend the event. ìI look forward to visiting with my neighbors and their children at the ëBack to Schoolí Congress after Hours before I head back to Washington, ìsaid Poe. ìAs always, I look forward to reporting back to the people I represent and hearing their feedback as well. Listening to their thoughts, questions and concerns allows me to be a better advocate for them in Congress.î Light refreshments will be provided. WHEN: August 29, 2012 5:30-6:30pmCST WHO: Congressman Ted Poe, staff & constituents from the Second District.WHERE: Pearl Fincher Museum of Fine Art 6815 Cypresswood Drive Spring, Texas 77379 QUESTIONS? Call Congressman Poe's Kingwood Office. (281) 446-0242 ###
08.27.2012	WASHINGTON D.C.--This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to Thomas Horton, Chairman, President & CEO of American Airlines, urging him to move forward with the creation of a new route from Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport to the Southeast Texas Regional Airport. To view letter CLICK HERE.###
08.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DCóOn Tuesday, staff representing members of the bipartisan Congressional PORTS Caucus traveled to the Port of Baltimore. During the trip, attendees got a close-up look at the daily activity at the Port of Baltimore. After a morning of briefings on port issues ranging from dredging needs to infrastructure development and containerized screening, congressional staffers in attendance received a tour of marine terminals, and saw a Customs and Border Patrol demonstration of a cargo container screening.ìPort security is vital to both national security and economic security,î said Poe. ìPort activity directly or indirectly impacts every home in America. The caucus is focused on raising awareness in Congress about the importance of our nationís ports and will continue to educate lawmakers about the work they do and the challenges they face.îìItís so important that we educate policymakers about the vital role ports play in our economy and security,î said PORTS Caucus co-founder Congresswoman Janice Hahn. ìThis port tour will give our policymakers valuable exposure to the size and scope of port operations, and enhance their understanding of the challenges facing our nationís ports.îStaff received an overview of business at U.S. ports from Kathy Broadwater, Deputy Executive Director of the Maryland Port Administration, an update from Kurt Nagle, President of the Association of American Port Authorities on national issues impacting ports, and briefings from Jeff McKee, Senior Coastal Navigation Program Manager Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Mark Montgomery, President & CEO of Ports America Chesapeake, Roger Bohnert, Deputy Associate Administrator, Intermodal System, U.S. Maritime Administration, and Ricardo Scheller, Port Director, Port of Baltimore, Customs & Border Protection on dredging needs for U.S. Ports, Private-Public Partnerships, the Maritime Administrations Port Infrastructure Development Program Framework, and port security operations and container screening procedures.The bi-partisan Congressional Ports Opportunity Renewal Trade and Security (PORTS) caucus has 73 members from across the country, working to promote the importance our ports to the nationís economy and the need to secure them.
08.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement, reacting to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ruling that the EPA violated the Clean Air Act in its Cross State Air Pollution Rule. The rule regulated emissions in 28 states. The Court held that the regulations overstepped the EPAís authority. ìI am pleased that the court agrees that the EPA has yet again overstepped its regulatory authority,î said Poe. ìWashingtonís bureaucratic one size fits all approach to clean air efforts does not work for the states. Whatís best for Idaho may not work for Texas. ìThe EPAís consistent efforts to demonize states like Texas and strip them of their authority to regulate air quality have done nothing to improve the environmentówhat it has done is increase uncertainty, added burdensome costs and destroy jobs. Texas has simultaneously improved its environment and the economy all without the help of the federal government. Instead of making an example out of states like Texas, perhaps the EPA should look Texas as an example.î ###
08.03.2012	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, the House unanimously voted to reauthorize essential portions of the Adam Walsh Act, ensuring that our children are protected from dangerous sexual predators. H.R. 3796 will continue assistance for states to come into compliance with national sex offender registry requirements and funds the U.S. Marshalsís fugitive sex offender apprehension program. These programs have been successful in protecting our children, and their continuity is an absolute necessity. As co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus, I will continue to fight for programs that ensure the safety of families in Texas and throughout our great nation.###
07.25.2012	Bill establishes safeguard to protect Americans from Drone Surveillance WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced HR 6199 , the Preserving American Privacy Act. The bill seeks to ensure the privacy of American citizens by establishing specific guidelines about when and for what purposes law enforcement agencies and private individuals can use drones. The bill was introduced with 23 original co-sponsors.The FAA will allow expanded use of drones nationwide by 2015. By 2030, an estimated 30,000 drones will be flying in American skies. Currently, no laws are in place to ensure that drones are not used in ways that infringe on the 4th Amendment rights of private individuals. "As we enter this uncharted world of drone technology, Congress must be proactive and establish boundaries for drone use that safeguard the Constitutional rights of Americans," said Poe. "Individuals are rightfully concerned that these new eyes in the sky may threaten their privacy. It is the obligation of Congress to ensure that this does not happen. Just because Big Brother can look into someone's backyard doesn't mean it should. Technology may change, but the Constitution does not." The “Preserving American Privacy Act” will:· Prevent the FAA from issuing a permit for the use of a drone to fly in US airspace (for law enforcement purposes or for surveillance of a person or their property) unless it is pursuant to a warrant and in the investigation of a felony. This prohibition would be applicable to State, Federal, and local jurisdictions.· Prevent the FAA from issuing a permit to any private individual for the use of a drone for surveillance of any private individual or their property unless the person under surveillance has consented or the owner of the property has consented.· No evidence obtained from the use of a drone may be used at an administrative hearing. Exceptions· The warrant exceptions would be the same as those that are applicable in the state, federal, or local jurisdiction where the surveillance occurs.· The bill would not change the permissible uses for border security purposes.###
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted for H.R. 6082, the Congressional Replacement of President Obama's Energy-Restricting and Job-Limiting Offshore Drilling Plan. At a time when our economy is suffering and gas prices increase day by day, America needs a stable source of energy and more jobs. This nation is the only one in the world that places most of our offshore territory off limits to oil and gas drilling. H.R. 6082, which passed with bipartisan support, proposes a smarter, safe, environmentally sound, and economically responsible drilling plan.ìWe should be saying yes to all types of American energy,î said Poe. ìYes to more offshore drilling; yes to ANWR; yes to faster approval of permits; and yes to the Keystone XL pipeline.î###
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ Today, as a co-sponsor, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted for H.R. 459, the Audit the Fed bill, which passed in the House with bipartisan support. This bill would allow government auditors to more intensely audit the Federal Reserveís monetary policy. In the last few years, during the nationís economic crisis, the Fed lent an estimated $16 trillion. That number totals more than the size of our whole economy. Under current law, Congress is not authorized to access information about how the Federal Reserve manages its money supply. However, H.R. 459, will eliminate these restrictions and increase transparency. Every day, we hear stories about how Americans have been affected by the Fedís poor policy choices. It is the responsibility of Congress to closely review the Fedís actions. ###
07.18.2012	Poe Amendment strikes $650 million aid to Pakistan WASHINGTON, D.C.óCongressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is proud to announce that his amendment to H.R. 5856, the FY13 Defense Appropriations bill, passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan, unanimous support. The Poe amendment strikes $650 million in funding to Pakistan included in the Defense Appropriations bill. ìPakistan is the ëBenedict Arnoldí to America in the war on terror. They are disloyal, deceptive and a danger to the United States, ìsaid Poe. ìThis so-called ally continues to take billions in U.S. aid, while funding the militants who attack us. And weíve kept the money flowing. Itís time we turn off the tap. By continuing to provide aid to Pakistan, we are funding the enemy, endangering Americans and undermining our efforts in the region. We donít need to pay them to betray us; they are already doing it for free.îCongressman Poe is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R.6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act. The bill passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 244-185. ìToday the Peopleís House reaffirmed our promise to Americans: we remain committed to repealing this costly and unprecedented government attack on individual freedom of choice. Now itís time for the Senate to let their constituents know where they stand,î said Poe.ìThe President promised that he would never increase taxes for any American family or business making under $250,000. Another broken promise. The Supreme Court ruled that the individual mandate is a tax. That means that Obamacare imposes the largest tax on the middle class in American history. Obamacare creates 21 new taxes, and over half of them impact the middle class. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), 20 million Americans will either have to pay the tax or be forced to buy insurance they otherwise would not have bought. In a recent Gallup poll, 48% of small businesses cited the potential cost of health care as the reason why they are not currently hiring. The last thing American families and businesses need right now is more taxes. ììThe health care system in this country needs fixing, but a complex, expensive law that values control over care is not the answer. Health insurance must be personal, portable and permanent. The Supreme Court has spoken. The House has spoken. And, the people will have their voice in November.îNow Congress must come up with a solution that improves our health care system without surrendering the individual liberty of the American people and turning their health over to the government. And thatís just the way it is.###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - ìThe Supreme Courtís decision to uphold most of the Affordable Care Act is a striking blow to all who believe in individual liberty. The effects of this decision cannot be understated: the federal governmentís power to tax has now been extended to virtually everything. The Foundersí never intended for the government to tell the citizens when and what to buy with the threat of a tax. The individual mandate creates a new tax that American families and businesses cannot afford. The last thing the people need right now is more government taxes. The Presidentís nationalized health care law also gives control of health care decisions to a group of unelected bureaucrats and increases health care costs for American families and small businesses at a time when they should be focused on hiring more employees.Congress and the Supreme Court have both had the opportunity to decide on this destructive government invasion of choice. Now, the fate of Obamacare lies with the American people.î###
06.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement in response to the Minority Leaderís assertion that Congressí investigation of Attorney General Eric Holder and Fast & Furious is part of an effort to suppress votes: ìNancy Pelosi is wrong again,î said Poe. The Congressional investigation into Fast and Furious is about the suppression of gunwalking, not voters. As the minority leader should know, the Attorney General lost all credibility to investigate Fast & Furious long before Congress voted to hold him in contempt. ìThis is about the Chief Law Enforcement Officer hiding evidence from Congress and the American people, running out the clock and delaying the truth until the polls close in November. No one is above the law, especially not the Attorney General.î###
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - It has been eighteen months since the death of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry and the Attorney General claims he still doesnít know who authorized the reckless and deadly Operation Fast and Furious. He maintains that it wasnít him. But he still wonít produce the documents to Congress to prove it. President Obama, noticeably silent about Operation Fast and Furious all along has claimed that he was never aware or involved. But in an eleventh hour maneuver just minutes before Congress began the process to hold the Attorney General in Contempt of Congress, President Obama, leader of the self-proclaimed ìmost transparent Administration in historyî, asserted his Executive Privilege to withhold documents from Congress. Why is the President keeping documents from Congress and the American people he supposedly never saw?###
06.19.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ This afternoon, PORTS Caucus co-chairs Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congresswoman Janice Hahn (D-CA) hosted Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Maritime Administrator David Matsuda for a bipartisan meeting with PORTS Caucus members. ìToday was a valuable opportunity for PORTS Caucus Members to collaborate with Secretary LaHood and Administrator Matsuda to determine what Congress and the Administration can do together to address port issues nationally, ìsaid Poe. ìI look forward to working with the Department of Transportation in the future as the Caucus continues our efforts to ensure that all ports and transportation infrastructure have the adequate resources they need to maintain the flow of commerce.îìPORTS Caucus members had the opportunity to have a very open discussion about our ports and the vital role they play in our economy with Secretary LaHood and Administrator Matsuda,î said Rep. Hahn. ìWe talked about our transportation network and how we must have proper investment and security for our global supply chain. Iím pleased they were so receptive to our message and I look forward to working with both of them in the future.îThe bipartisan Congressional PORTS Caucusís mission is to promote the importance of our ports to the nationís economy and the need to secure them. United States ports support 13.3 million jobs and account for $3.15 trillion in business activity to the economy. ###
06.18.2012	ìThe Federal Government lineup has struck out again in its second attempt to convict Roger Clemens, ìsaid Poe. It had no business investigating an issue that should have been left in the hands of Major League Baseball in the first place. Now, millions of taxpayer dollars have been squandered because of opportunists who have attempted to target and punish a successful American and baseball legend. The Department of Justice has real crimes that it should be investigating, not steroids in baseball.î###
06.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DCñ On Friday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administrationís change in immigration enforcement policy: ìIn his latest Friday surprise, President Obama has acted outside the Constitution and issued an imperial decree, acting to unilaterally and fundamentally ignore the law without any consent or authorization from Congress, ìsaid Poe. ìInstead of focusing on putting the 23 million unemployed or underemployed Americans back to work, he will halt deportations and immediately make work permits available to young undocumented immigrants. Through no fault of their own, young undocumented immigrants are here as a result of decades of the federal governmentís failure to enforce immigration law in this country. They are one of many groups of people affected by Americaís broken immigration system. But President Obama has no interest in fixing what is broken. Instead of offering a real solution, he has put forward a disingenuous and temporary two year fix in hopes of winning votes in November. This irresponsible (and unconstitutional) legislating from the Executive Branch will only encourage more illegal immigration in the future. I will continue to advocate for comprehensive immigration reform that fixes our broken immigration system without sacrificing the rule of law.î ###
06.08.2012	ìJustice occurred today for Officer Kevin Will and his family. Johoan Rodriguez has been sentenced to 55 years in prison,î said Poe. ìLet this be a statement to the lawless that criminal conduct is not accepted by American jurors no matter where you are from. Those who wreak havoc on our communities and kill law enforcement officers will always be met by the long arm of American justice.î###
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON D.C.óYesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) along with Congressman Jason Altmire (D-PA) offered a bipartisan amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The amendment would strengthen communication abilities between border state residents and law enforcement. It passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support, 302-113. Last year, Congressman Poe worked with Congressman Altmire and the office of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords to pass a similar amendment to the Department of Homeland Security bill. ìThe failure of the federal government to secure the Southern Border has left border state residents vulnerable to spillover crime from Mexico,î said Poe. ìMany border areas are rural and lack wireless communications capabilities, exacerbating safety concerns. If the federal government is not willing or able to secure the border, we can at least equip our citizens with the capability to call for help. What happened to Rob Krentz should never happen again.îAmendment summary:The Poe-Altmire amendment reallocates $10 million from the Office of the Under Secretary for Management of DHS, to the Border Security, Fencing, Infrastructure and Technology account with the purpose of being used for border cell phone communications infrastructure. This funding will help border residents disseminate border security related information to Border Patrol and law enforcement. Context: On March 27, 2010, Arizona rancher Rob Krentz was murdered 20 miles north of the border in an isolated area. The lack of communications capability made Krentz more vulnerable than he would have been otherwise and complicated the search for the assailant. ###
06.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the May unemployment report released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).ìTodayís alarming unemployment report confirms that this Administration has totally lost control of the economy,î said Poe. Americans have suffered through 40 consecutive months of unemployment higher than 8%. Only 69,000 jobs were added in the month of May. While this number is troubling it doesnít accurately reflect the severity of the problem. According to the BLS, the real unemployment rate or the underemployment rate (including both the unemployed and those who have quit looking for work) is up to 14.8 percent. The biggest threat to our national security is the high unemployment and soaring debt that this Administration has continually made worse. Their answer is to tax more, regulate more, and spend moreótodayís report is proof that those policies have failed. Washington needs to cut spending, get out of the way and allow American ingenuity and free enterprise to revive the economy. Creating even more uncertainty for businesses, growing government and adding to our deficit will only keep us on the path we are on. We need to change direction.î###
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON D.C.óOn Thursday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) offered two amendments to the Military Construction, Veteran and Related Agencies (MilCon/VA) Appropriations bill, both of which passed the House unanimously by voice vote. The Poe Amendments would protect veterans and their First Amendment rights in light of the censorship of religion and speech that occurred at Houston VA Cemetery last summer when veterans were prohibited from using the word ìGodî in their prayers and bibles were removed from the chapel.ìI am pleased that my colleagues in the House agree that what happened at Houston VA Cemetery must never happen again,î said Poe.When I first learned from the VFW last summer that the VA was censoring free speech and preventing the free exercise of religious at the National Cemetery in Houston, I didnít want to believe it. But, it was true. No American should be denied their constitutional rights of speech and religion, especially not our veterans who fought and died for those very freedoms. Director Ocasioís poor judgment reflects that she not only disregards constitutional liberties, but she does not respect the needs of veterans. Only those who have served and really understand the needs of veterans should be allowed to oversee veteranís cemeteries.îPOE No.4 states: ìNone of the funds made available by this Act may be used to hire a new director of a national cemetery who is not a veteran.îPOE No. 5 states: ìNone of the funds made available by this Act may be used to prohibit a veterans service organization that is participating in a funeral or memorial service of a veteran from reciting any words as part of such service or memorial.î ###
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ On Tuesday, May 22, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a ìCongress after Hoursî event at Church of Champions. During the informal, come and go event, neighbors will have a chance to visit one-on-one with Congressman Poe for a few minutes. This will give people the chance to share their concerns and ideas. Attendees who have questions about individual casework or the Service Academy nomination process will be able to speak with members of the Congressmanís staff, who will also attend the event.ìI hope all of my neighbors will join me again for Congress after Hours,î said Poe. ìI look forward to talking about what Congress is working on in Washington and hearing peopleís ideas and feedback. Listening to their thoughts, questions and concerns allows me to be a better advocate in Washington.îLight food and refreshments will be provided.WHEN: Tuesday, May 22, 2012 at 5-6:30pmCST WHO: Congressman Ted Poe, staff & constituents from the Second District. WHERE: Church of Champions 12922 Cutten Road Houston 77066###
05.15.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in honor of National Peace Officers Memorial Day.ìPeace officers dedicate their lives to protecting the rest of us from the anarchy of the lawless,î said Poe. ìSome of them put on the uniform and the badge and never come home. This week, during National Police Week and Peace Officers Memorial Day, we have the opportunity to honor the law enforcement officers who have given their lives and the families they have left behind. Peace officers are the last strand of wire in the fence between good and evil. They are what separate us from the anarchy of the lawless. They are real life heroes in our midst. We should reflect on the sacrifice of fallen peace officers, not only today, but every day.î###
05.11.2012	Poe co-sponsors US-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R. 4133, the United States-Israel Enhances Security Cooperation Act of 2012. This legislation passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 411-2. Congressman Poe was a cosponsor of the bill. "The United States has no greater ally in the Middle East than the nation of Israel. Israel's interests are America's interests. Americaís support for Israel cannot waiver, it cannot wane, and we cannot grow weary in proclaiming the absolute right of Israel to defend herself. Israel is surrounded by enemies, and an enemy of Israel is an enemy of the United States. This legislation reaffirms Americaís commitment to the security of Israel.î###
05.10.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE POE ACS AMENDMENT PASSES HOUSE UNANIMOUSLY WASHINGTON, D.C.—Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) along with Congressmen Trey Gowdy (SC-04), Steve King (IA-05), Steve Scalise (LA-01), and Jeff Landry (LA-03) offered an amendment to the FY 2013 CJS Appropriations bill that would prohibit the Census Bureau from using funds to enforce a criminal penalty on Americans who choose not to participate in the American Community Survey (ACS). The House passed the Poe/Gowdy/Scalise/King amendment unanimously.The ACS is separate from the decennial Census that is required by the Constitution. The decennial Census that is conducted every ten years to account for the population includes ten basic questions. The ACS is a 48-question survey that is sent to 3 million Americans each year.It includes questions about mental disabilities in your home, personal financial information, whether you have a toilet and what time you leave for and return from work each day. Currently, those who choose not to respond are threatened with a criminal penalty. The Poe amendment would prohibit any funds from being used to enforce criminal penalties for people who do not wish to participate in this government-mandated survey.“The Federal Government has no right to force citizens who do not fill out the American Community Survey with a criminal penalty,” said Rep. Poe. “I have heard from countless Texans who are uncomfortable with the intrusive nature of some of the questions in the ACS, but they feel intimidated and forced to participate because the threat of a criminal penalty from the government still exists. I am pleased that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree that penalizing private citizens for not filling out a government-mandated survey is an abuse of government power.”"Judge Poe hits the nail on the head with this amendment,” said Rep. Gowdy. “If citizens want to tell you how often they lose concentration or how many flush toilets are in their home, that's up to them. Frankly, I think it's none of the government's business. To threaten prosecution for the failure to answer these questions is outrageous. The purpose of the census is to apportion the congressional seats. Accordingly, asking about the number of household members of voting age and the race of the household members for purposes of constitutional compliance are the only two questions the government needs the answer to." “I am proud to join my colleagues in fighting yet another government overreach by an Administration that disregards the Constitution,” said Rep. Landry."We get better information from volunteers than we do people that are coerced” said Rep. King. “They may well not fill out this survey accurately if they think they're doing so under penalty of law. The American people should have the freedom to refuse to answer this Orwellian survey and not have an intrusive federal government threatening to impose a fine if they refuse.""Washington bureaucrats should not be allowed to force American families to disclose private and sensitive personal information against their will through the American Community Survey under the threat of hefty fines, and I'm glad our amendment passed in the House today to reverse this offensive and intrusive policy,” said Rep. Scalise. ###
04.27.2012	The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA)WHY IS CISPA NEEDED? Each day tens of thousands of cyber attacks, oftentimes from China and Russia, target U.S. companies and the U.S. government. These cyber criminals try to steal customers’ personal information, our country’s national intelligence and top secret information, and companies’ trade secrets and plans for new products. The cyber thugs then use this information for everything from stealing the identity of American citizens to plotting attacks against the U.S. Because we remain vulnerable to attacks from organized, foreign cyber criminals, the security of American businesses and American citizens are at risk. WHAT DOES CISPA DO? CISPA creates a legal framework to allow voluntary intelligence sharing in order to protect businesses, their consumers, and the U.S. government from cyber attacks. Under this framework, intelligence on cyber attacks, including the identity of who is launching the attack, how they are doing it, and what kinds of information they are targeting, can be shared within the private sector or between the government and the private sector. Only information necessary to prevent cyber attacks can be voluntarily shared. Ultimately, this adds protections for you as an individual, without compromising your privacy. This will allow both the private and public sectors to better prepare for and prevent cyber attacks.HOW DOES CISPA IMPACT ME? When organized criminals in China hack into a U.S. business, they have access to your personal information. Under CISPA, the business can then voluntarily share certain information to help identify the perpetrators and prevent similar, future attacks. (Note: disclosure to consumers is already required under the law). Preventing future cyber attacks is beneficial to us all as consumers and helps make your personal information more secure.WHAT CISPA DOES NOT DO: CISPA does not allow the U.S. government to block access to websites, censor, or force an individual or company to remove information or content from websites. It also does not create any mandates; it is completely voluntary.DOES CISPA VIOLATE OUR CIVIL LIBERTIES? When this bill was introduced, I had concerns that the language was not clear enough to adequately protect the civil liberties of private citizens. I supported eight amendments that passed the House of Representatives (3 by voice vote) that added further civil liberty protections for individuals. Two of the amendments made it clear that (1) only information necessary to prevent cyber attacks will be shared; (2) all information sharing will be voluntary, not mandatory; and (3) the information cannot be used by the government, or any other party, for any purpose other than preventing cyber attacks. If you have any further questions or concerns about CISPA, please call my Washington, DC office at (202) 225-6565.###
04.26.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEPOE: ARMENDARIZ NEEDS TO GO WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement responding to statements made by EPA Region Six Administrator Al Armendariz:ìThe comments made by Administrator Armendariz back in 2010 confirm what weíve known all along: the EPAís crusade to destroy the oil and gas industry is a politically premeditated effort, not one meant to protect the environment. Administrator Armendarizís words reflect his disdain for the oil and gas industry and make clear that his decisions are made without an ounce of impartiality. He should be fired.îìThe EPA is an agency charged with protecting the environment, instead it has focused its efforts on targeting, intimidating, and vilifying the energy industry in any way it can. The aggressive assault the EPA has unleashed on the oil and gas industry has not only increased the cost of energy, it has destroyed jobs.îìThe oil and gas industry accounts for 9.2 million jobs in the United States. ëMaking examplesí of this field has put American jobs in jeopardy. Ironically, Mr. Armendarizís oversees the EPAís efforts in Texas, which has been hit especially hard. Oil and gas and related industries make up nearly a quarter of the Texas economy. An assault on oil and gas is an assault on Texas. ì###
04.25.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEPOE: ìJUSTICE FOR PEACE OFFICERSî Today, the House Judiciary Committee unanimously passed H.R. 365, The National Blue Alert Act of 2011. The bill would establish a nationwide ìBlue Alertî system to quickly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured or killed. The system would be similar to the Amber Alert and Silver Alert systems that currently exist for missing children and missing seniors. Congressman Poe is an original cosponsor of the bill. ìPeace officers dedicate their lives to protecting the rest of us from the anarchy of the lawless,î said Poe. ìSome of them never come home. The brave men and women who wear the uniform and badge defy danger every day to seek out those who commit crimes against others. Itís time we find and deliver the lawless street thugs who choose to harm them.îEach year, hundreds of law enforcement officers are killed or seriously injured in the line of duty. There has been an alarming 75% increase in police officer deaths since 2008. Since 1791, nearly 21,000 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty in the United States. ###
04.19.2012	Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus Holds Annual Award CeremonyVRC Co-Chairs Reps. Poe & Costa Honor Victim AdvocatesWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Co-Chairs and Co-Founders Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) joined member of the bipartisan Congressional Victims’ Rights Caucus to honor this year’s outstanding individuals that have given their time and service to helping victims. “Victim’s rights advocates are selfless individuals who dedicate their lives to giving victims of crime a voice,” said Poe. “Today’s VRC recipients are some of the most effective and committed people in their field. Their work and advocacy has both impacted the lives of others around the nation and inspired meaningful change that should never be forgotten. They make America a better place.” "Far too often the good, hard work of victims’ rights advocates goes unnoticed," said Costa. "Today we honored some of the most dedicated and innovative advocates in the field who guarantee that every survivor has a safe place to turn. These honorees know the true meaning of service and compassion."The 2012 Victim’s Rights Caucus Recipients:The Allied Professional Award:UC Merced Violence Prevention Program The Violence Prevention Program was implemented in the spring of 2010 at the University of California, Merced, and the benefits to survivors of sexual violence, dating/domestic violence and stalking were immediately seen. Within the two year span of the program, there has been a 1,250% increase in survivors of these crimes reporting to law enforcement, which has been attributed to the close relationship between campus and community police officers and the Violence Prevention Program Campus Advocate. The Violence Prevention Program ensures that 100% of campus officers are trained annually on response to these crimes.The Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award:Children at Risk Through its research and advocacy programs, Children at Risk is a well-known leader in understanding the health, safety and economic indicators impacting children, and educating public policy makers in their importance in improving the lives of children. Children at Risk has worked to help Texas’s most defenseless children by providing them with a voice in the decisions that so dramatically affect their lives. They have raised immense awareness of the most pressing issues facing Texas’ children through educational events across the state Children & Youth, State Summits on the Trafficking & Exploitation of Children, “Houston’s Future, Houston’s Children” class series and many more.The Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation:Melissa Hook, Director of the Office of Victim Services, District of ColumbiaMelissa Hook has been an outstanding victim advocate for 15 years, working at the local, state and national levels. She is a rare victim advocate with a wide breadth of experience, including direct victim advocacy; writing, research and evaluation, training and technical assistance; and program administration. At the state and local levels, Melissa has had a powerful impact on the development, implementation, evaluation and sustainability of victim services in the District of Columbia. Additionally, Melissa is universally lauded as the author of Ethics in Victim Services, a book that has helped countless victim assistance programs to develop ethical standards for the treatment of victims and survivors. She was also nominated for an Emmy Award for the 2002 documentary, “Meeting with a Killer,” that highlighted Texas’ victim/offender mediation program.The Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award-Nicole Norberto Member:Nicole NorbertoNicole Norberto is a survivor of a sexual assault that occurred in 2003 in Jackson Township, New Jersey. Even while being harassed be her perpetrator and his friends Nicole forged ahead and was set on bringing her rapist to justice. She has become a voice for victims in New Jersey and an effective advocate on their behalf. Nicole has worked to strengthen the laws designed to deter sexual assault, protect victims, provide police and prosecutors with the tools necessary to implement them, and penalize perpetrators. The Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy:Jill Marsilio-Colonna, Women’s Center of Beaver County Member Ms. Marsilio-Colonna, Executive Director of the Women’s Center has been instrumental in creating collaborative partnerships with the Beaver County District Attorney’s Office and the local hospital system. She began a taskforce with the DA’s office with the goal improving the criminal justice system and medical response to violence against women in Beaver County. Now crime victims are empowered to become an integral part of the justice system on their own behalf; and offenders are held accountable for their crimes.###
03.29.2012	Mar 29, 2012Washington, DC - Yesterday, Representative Ann Marie Buerkle (NY-25) led an effort on the Floor of the House of Representatives to bring fellow Members of Congress together in support of the White Ribbon Campaign. This campaign is an annual effort led by Vera House to raise awareness of domestic violence and sexual abuse.Buerkle handed out hundreds of white ribbons to her colleagues and took to the Floor to speak out against domestic violence. ìOur country has a moral obligation to stand up against those who exploit their power to commit violence against men, women, and children.ìThis White Ribbon Campaign is led by men and encourages all members of the community ñ men and women, young and old ñ to join in their efforts. This male leadership helps to acknowledge the important contributions men have made to this effort and invites others to take a role.îRep. Buerkle stayed on the Floor encouraging her colleagues to share their support for the white ribbon campaign offering the success of Vera House in Syracuse, NY as a shining example of how raising awareness and attention at the national level can lead to a better environment for men, women, and children facing abuse.In recent weeks, the importance of addressing domestic violence and sexual abuse has gained considerable attention as the Senate has taken up legislation to confront this ongoing problem. As the Senate continues its debate, Rep. Buerkle will be advocating for the White Ribbon Campaign and similar efforts to bring an end to domestic violence and sexual abuse of men, women, and children. Vera Houseís campaign began on March 23 and lasts through April 1.
03.27.2012	Save the Children Honors Sen. Robert Casey, Congressman Ted Poe, and Chris Van Hollen as Champions for ChildrenApplauded for their leadership and extraordinary commitment to children around the world, Senator Robert Casey, Congressman Ted Poe, and Congressman Chris Van Hollen were honored this week with Save the Children's 2012 Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change Award. Media Contact hbrencher@savechildren.org">Hannah Brencher 203.216.7417WESTPORT, Conn. (March 23, 2012) ó Applauded for their leadership and extraordinary commitment to children around the world, Senator Robert Casey, Congressman Ted Poe, and Congressman Chris Van Hollen were honored this week with Save the Children's 2012 Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change Award."We honor Van Hollen, Casey and Poe for their consistent support and leadership in shaping a peaceful and prosperous world where children are better able to reach their full potential. Their unwavering commitment and dynamic leadership initiatives only strengthen our organization's will to bring global stability to children everywhere," said Carolyn Miles, Save the Children President and CEO.Each year, as part of Save the Children's Advocacy Day on Capitol Hill, the agency recognizes select congressional leaders for their outstanding work in helping children in need both at home and around the globe. Miles presented the three recipients with the award at the opening reception for the 2012 Advocacy Summit on Tuesday."I am honored and humbled to receive this distinction from Save the Children," said Senator Casey. "I commend Save the Children's tireless efforts to build support for the initiatives I have championed in the Senate, from increasing access to early learning programs to ensuring that all children have the healthy food they need to fuel their learning. The future of our nation rests in our ability to give every child the opportunity to succeed, and I will continue to fight on their behalf.""It's an honor to receive this award from an outstanding group like Save the Children, whose work helps millions of American children each year. They are on the front lines of working to break the cycle of childhood poverty and improve the lives of future generations," said Congressman Van Hollen. "The Congress must give our children and grandchildren the best chance for success ñ investing in their future is truly in the best interest of our entire county."Miles praised the awardees for being "dynamic partners Ö with their legislative initiatives and dedication to seeing funding for the international affairs budget realized." In addition, the organization lauded the recipients for their outstanding efforts to safeguard and promote effective and efficient programming for the most vulnerable children and families around the world.Save the Children is the leading, independent organization that creates lasting change for children in need in the United States and around the world. Follow us on Twitter and Facebook.
03.26.2012	This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) were joined by 17 border sheriffs from TX, AZ, and NM in sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, requesting that he send surplus equipment returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to the Southern border with Mexico.Over the next several months, a massive draw down of U.S. Forces in Iraq will occur. More than 1.5 million pieces of equipment have already been shipped out of Iraq over the last year and nearly 900,000 remain. Much of this equipment would be useful to the federal, state and local law enforcement in their efforts to secure the border with Mexico. Congressman Poe also introduced H.R. 3422 the SEND Act which would direct the Department of Defense to make 10% of certain equipment returning from Iraq to the Southern border available for use by law enforcement agencies that patrol our southern border. ìWe have brought this right to the Secretary of Defense, because border security is a national security issue,î said Poe. ìState and local officials are on the front lines of the southern border fighting to protect Americans from spillover violence from Mexico. They do the best they can with what theyíve got but they are out-manned and out-gunned by the drug cartels and they are desperate for more resources. For years, the American people have invested their money in equipment that has been used to defend the borders of other nations; itís time that we use this equipment to secure the United States. I thank Governor Perry for all the work he has done to secure the Texas border and I look forward to working with Secretary Panetta, Rep. Cuellar and the Texas border sheriffs to ensure that law enforcement has the equipment they need to protect our citizens.îìIf we want to boost border security, we have to help law enforcement agencies beef up their resources to meet this demand. We cannot have one without the other,î said Cuellar. ìWe intend to keep the lines of communication open with the Defense Department so that we can help our border law enforcement agencies navigate the equipment application process. I join Congressman Poe and our border sheriffs to help reinforce collaboration with Secretary Panetta for the betterment of our border communities.î In January, Cuellar hosted a meeting with Defense Department Assistant Undersecretary Paul N. Stockton in Laredo, Texas, to brief South Texas local law enforcement agencies on programs available through the DoD Domestic Preparedness Support Initiative. More than 100 officers, including border federal law enforcement agents, participated to learn more about military surplus equipment and technology acquisition. CLICK HERE to view the letter sent to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta.###
03.23.2012	Washington, D.C. ñ Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on the second anniversary of the Presidentís health care law:ìWhen President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, he declared that America would ëfinally confront the reality of reformí. Two years later, Americans have learned the hard way that the Presidentís reality is something we cannot afford. The premise that citizens must buy government approved healthcare is an unconstitutional denial of liberty. That is why I introduced legislation that would prohibit any funds from being used to implement or enforce the individual mandate. The government does not have the authority to force Americans to buy any product, whether it is health insurance, a car, or a box of doughnuts. Healthcare decisions should be made between patients and their doctors, not by unelected bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. Not only is the nationalized healthcare law unconstitutional, itís expensive. When it was signed into law, we were told that the law would cost $940 billion. Two years later, we learned that the price tag is twice as highónearly $1.8 trillion over the next decade. Also hidden deep in the law is a striking blow to our seniorsóObamacare cuts Medicare by $575 billion. Next week the Supreme Court will take up this case. This is one of the most consequential cases in modern history. If the Supreme Court allows this government invasion of choice, what is next? Is the government going to force citizens to buy only government approved green cars, only government houses, only government food? A majority of Americans do not support the government takeover of healthcare. An ABC poll last week revealed that 2/3 of Americans want the high court to throw out the entire law or at least the individual mandate portion. I have voted to repeal Obamacare and will continue to vigorously defend the Constitutional rights of the people I represent.î###
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R. 5, the PATH Act: Obamacare is unconstitutional and must be repealed in its entirety. That is why I voted for the full repeal of the Presidentís nationalized healthcare bill, including the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). I have also introduced legislation to defund the individual mandate provision of Obamacare. Although I fully support the repeal of IPAB and have cosponsored legislation to repeal it (H.R. 452), I cannot support final passage of H.R. 5 because the bill includes provisions that I believe violate statesí rights and the 10th Amendment. As a strict constitutionalist and a fierce defender of statesí rights, I cannot accept replacing one unconstitutional law with another. H.R. 5 imposes a federal medical liability cap on the states. In effect, this allows the federal government to overrule the state governments that have decided to prohibit liability caps. Five states already have constitutional prohibitions on liability caps. I believe that H.R. 5 will supersede these state constitutions and override the will of those legislatures. I myself believe in medical liability caps, like we have in Texas; however, if another stateís voters do not want such reform, that is their decision to make. And, their doctors are welcome to keep coming to Texas. To protect statesí rights, I introduced an amendment to H.R. 5 that would prevent the bill from preempting any state liability cap that is currently in effect. Unfortunately, my amendment was not accepted. If this bill had been modified to ensure that statesí rights were fully protected, it would have had my full support. Repealing IPAB should not come at the expense of putting constitutionally protected statesí rights in jeopardy. ###
03.21.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON, DC– On Tuesday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Steve Chabot (OH-01) introduced H.R. 4216, the Foreign Counterfeit Prevention Act. The legislation allows Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to exchange important information with rights holders in order to protect intellectual property (IP) rights and to uphold the integrity of trade. Each day thousands of counterfeit products come through our nation’s borders and ports of entry. Given the sheer volume of fraudulent products and the alarming sophistication of counterfeiters and pirates, it is often difficult to tell the real from the fake. When counterfeit goods successfully enter the U.S., American workers who make and design the legitimate goods lose.“Right now, CBP officers are on the front lines of trade enforcement, but they are not allowed to share information with the people most knowledgeable about the authenticity of their products—the right holders, “said Rep. Poe. “Instead, they are faced with the nearly impossible task of inspecting all of the counterfeit and potentially dangerous goods – from pharmaceutical drugs to movies, blow dryers and video games - to determine what is genuine and what is counterfeit. We are setting them up for failure. This broken system is hurting American designers and manufacturers.” “As American companies struggle in this difficult economy, it is critical that we in Washington do what we can to protect the intellectual property and trademarked goods that sustain them,” said Rep. Chabot. “Every fraudulent product that passes into our country takes a chunk out of a real American business, ultimately costing us jobs and further damaging our economy. This bill will close the gap between CBP and the American companies themselves.”Background For many years, CBP routinely sought the assistance of trademark and copyright owners to authenticate suspected counterfeit or pirated products detained at the border. Unfortunately, after a questionable legal interpretation of the Trade Secrets Act, CBP directed field staff in 2008 to redact all identifying markings and codes before sending a digital image to the right holder to authenticate the product. H.R. 4216 provides a permanent remedy to this serious enforcement deficiency by clarifying that it is not a violation of the Trade Secrets Act for CBP officers to provide information and samples, including bar codes and identifying marks, to the right holder. It also appropriately includes pirated goods and circumvention device violations. This legislation assures that CBP can continue to seek useful input from right holders to interdict dangerous counterfeit products before they enter the U.S. market. Likewise, the information sharing authorized by the bill ensures that genuine goods held for examination by CBP will be promptly identified as such, so that legitimate shipments will not be unnecessarily delayed from reaching the consumer markets in the U.S.This legislation has the support of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on the bill on Wednesday, March 28, 2012 at 10:00AM.
03.14.2012	I am deeply saddened by the shooting in Beaumont today. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and the loved ones of the innocent bystanders who lost their lives, and I am praying for a speedy recovery for those who are wounded. As for the shooter, I hope that justice is swift and punishment is harsh.###
03.09.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON, DCñ On Tuesday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a ìCongress after Hoursî event at Tin Roof Barbeque in Atascocita. During the informal come and go event, people will have a chance to visit one-on-one with Congressman Poe. This will give citizens the chance to share their concerns and ideas. Attendees who have questions about individual casework will be able to speak with members of the Congressmanís staff, who will also attend the event. ìI hope all of my neighbors will join me at Tin Roof Barbeque on Tuesday, ìsaid Poe. ìI look forward to hearing what is on everyoneís minds whether it is the rising cost of gas, the state of the border or anything else in between. Listening to their concerns and suggestions allows me to be a better advocate for them in Congress.îLight food and refreshments will be provided. WHO: Congressman Ted Poe, staff & constituents from the Second District. WHERE: Tin Roof BBQ 18918 Town Center Boulevard, Atascocita, TX 77346WHEN: Tuesday, March 13, 2012 5-6:30CST ###
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DCñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, which passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. The vote was 390-23. This package of six proposals will increase access to capital for businesses by removing some of the unnecessary federal regulations that currently exist. ìToday the House came together and passed good, bipartisan legislation that will open up new opportunities for small business owners, startups and entrepreneurs, ìsaid Poe. ìEmpowering job creators by removing the federal red tape will both restore certainty and allow businesses to create new jobs. This legislation is a combination of six proposals that reform, streamline and repeal regulations that are currently holding back small businesses and entrepreneurial growth.îìAccording to the World Bankís 2012 Doing Business report, the United States ranks #13 in the world in places to Start a Business. We trail countries like Belarus, Macedonia and Rwanda. This is unacceptable. In order to put Americans back to work, we must make the United States a friendly place to do business again. This is a step in the right direction. President Obama supports this legislation; the House supports this legislation, now itís time for the Senate to pass this legislation. The House has passed 27 additional job bills that are awaiting action in the Senate. I hope that the JOBS Act will not be number 28.î ###
03.08.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON, DCñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, which passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support. The vote was 390-23. This package of six proposals will increase access to capital for businesses by removing some of the unnecessary federal regulations that currently exist. ìToday the House came together and passed good, bipartisan legislation that will open up new opportunities for small business owners, startups and entrepreneurs, ìsaid Poe. ìEmpowering job creators by removing the federal red tape will both restore certainty and allow businesses to create new jobs. This legislation is a combination of six proposals that reform, streamline and repeal regulations that are currently holding back small businesses and entrepreneurial growth.îìAccording to the World Bankís 2012 Doing Business report, the United States ranks #13 in the world in places to Start a Business. We trail countries like Belarus, Macedonia and Rwanda. This is unacceptable. In order to put Americans back to work, we must make the United States a friendly place to do business again. This is a step in the right direction. President Obama supports this legislation; the House supports this legislation, now itís time for the Senate to pass this legislation. The House has passed 27 additional job bills that are awaiting action in the Senate. I hope that the JOBS Act will not be number 28.î ###
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON,D.C.óToday, Congressman Poe testified before the Oversight and Government Reform Committee about the pros and cons of making the American Community Survey (ACS) mandatory. CLICK HERE to view the text of the American Community Survey and please let me know whether or not you think it should be mandatory by participating in the website poll. ###
02.29.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 29, 2012Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-36) hosted the inaugural event for the bipartisan Congressional Ports, Opportunity Renewal, Trade and Security (PORTS) Caucus. The mission of the PORTS Caucus is to promote the importance of our ports to the nationís economy and the need to secure them by promoting dialogue and coordination between Congress, the Administration and relevant federal agencies, as well as important industry officials. The caucus was formed last year by Rep. Poe and Rep. Hahn and currently includes 42 members representing 19 states and 2 territories. Todayís event featured a ìPorts 101î presentation made by guest speaker Kurt Nagle, President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities (AAPA). ìI am pleased that our nationís ports finally have a voice in Congress,î said Poe. ìPorts are critical to both our national security and economic security. They are Americaís link to the rest of the world. Whether it is the food we eat, the car we drive, the light bulb used to light our homes or the clothing we wear, every American household is impacted by some activity at our ports. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Hahn and other members of the caucus to raise awareness and to educate others about the major issues important to ports in the United States. î ìThe PORTS Caucus is here to educate Members of Congress on the importance of our ports to our economy and national security. Ports impact every Congressional District in the country, and itís time that we give them the recognition they deserve,î said Rep. Hahn. The bipartisan PORTS Caucus is composed of Members from all regions of the country, including Representatives: Janice Hahn (CA), Ted Poe (TX), Adam Smith (WA), Jesse Jackson Jr. (IL), Bennie Thompson (MS), Bob Filner (CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL), Blake Farenthold (TX), Henry Waxman (CA), Charles Boustany (LA), Kathy Castor (FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), George Miller (CA), Bill Cassidy (LA), Colleen Hanabusa (HI), Russ Carnahan (MO), Cedric Richmond (LA), Allen West (FL), Silvestre Reyes (TX), Bill Keating (MA), Hank Johnson (GA), Tim Scott (SC), John Barrow (GA), Steve Palazzo (MS), Albio Sires (NJ), Barbara Lee (CA), Stephen Lynch (MA), Mike McIntyre (NC), Bobby Scott (VA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA), Pete Olson (TX), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (NMI), Dennis Kucinich (OH), Marsha Blackburn (TN), Dennis Ross (FL), Madeline Bordallo (GU), Tim Bishop (NY), Candice Miller (MI), and Peter DeFazio (OR). # # #
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In December, I supported the House-passed bill that would have extended the payroll tax cut for one year without adding to the federal budget deficit. Today, Congress passed a bill that would extend the payroll tax cut but will increase the federal budget deficit by $101 billion (plus interest) in just this year alone. I voted no. This will save Americans a minimal amount in the short term, while saddling them with even more debt in the long term. Since the bill does not provide for a way to put money back into the Social Security Trust Fund , this is not a tax cut it is a Social Security Cut. Using borrowed money to pay for expensive legislation is the type of irresponsible behavior that has gotten us into this fiscal crisis in the first place.###
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ On Friday, February 3, the Conference Report of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was released. At the request of Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Senator Hutchison, this legislation includes language that would give authority to the Federal Aviation Administration to allow U.S. cities to take revenue generated from minerals on airport lands owned by the City, to use for other transportation needs. Current law prevent the City of Beaumont from using any of the $42 million in royalties generated from the functional gas well on the grounds of the Beaumont Municipal Airport. This language will allow the city to use some of this excess revenue for other much needed transportation improvement projects. ìThe Federal Government should not have control over how cities use money generated from natural resources on airport lands. The revenue from the well on the Beaumont Municipal Airport property will be a valuable asset to the City of Beaumont, funding important projects to improve the infrastructure of the surrounding area,î said Congressman Poe. ìThe City owns the airport land. The City should be able to decide what is the best use of revenue generated on its land.îSenator Kay Bailey Hutchinson (R-TX) was instrumental in getting similar language included in the Senate version of the FAA Reauthorization Bill.
01.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 24, 2012CONGRESSMAN POE INTRODUCES THE KEYSTONE FOR A SECURE TOMORROW ACT (K-FAST) WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 3811, the Keystone for A Secure Tomorrow Act (K-FAST). This legislation would allow Congress to directly and immediately approve the permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congress already has the authority to act. According to CRS, “congressional action related to permitting of pipeline border crossings is a legitimate exercise of Congress's authority to regulate foreign commerce.” In fact, in 1973, Congress took similar action and passed the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act in order to build the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.“The Administration believes that the Keystone Pipeline does not serve the national interest. This is wrong. Approval of the Keystone Pipeline is not only in our national interest, it is a matter of national security. Energy and jobs are two things that Americans need to survive. The Keystone Pipeline would provide both, free of cost to the American taxpayers. Blocking this pipeline is putting our energy security and our economic security at risk. At a time when the cost of energy is high and 14 million Americans are unemployed, the country cannot wait any longer.”“Instead of saying yes and providing much needed relief to the people, the Administration turned its back on Americans and just said no to the Keystone XL Pipeline. It is the moral obligation and legal authority of Congress to say yes. Congress cannot sit idly by and watch Americans suffer as a result of this reckless decision motivated by politics. It’s time to create jobs, bring energy to the United States and make Middle Eastern politics irrelevant to our national security.”Congressman Poe introduced this bill with Democratic Congressman Dan Boren (OK-2). Cosponsors include Reps: 1.Pete Sessions (TX-32)2.Charles Boustany (LA-7)3.Pete Olson (TX-22)4.Bob Goodlatte (VA-6)5.John Culberson (TX-7)6.Blake Farenthold (TX-27)7.Steve Scalise (LA-1)8.Kenny Marchant (TX-24)9.Ralph Hall (TX-4) 10.Dennis Ross (FL-12) 11.Sam Johnson (TX-3) 12.Louie Gohmert (TX-1) 13.Mo Brooks (AL-5) 14.Jason Chaffetz (UT-3) 15.Jeffrey Landry (LA-3) 16.John Carter (TX-31)17.Mac Thornberry (TX-13)18.Michael Grimm (NY-13) 19.Dan Burton (IN-5) 20.Mike Conaway (TX-11) 21.Todd Platts (PA-19) 22.Michael Burgess (TX-26) 23.David Roe (TN-1) 24.Thomas Rooney (FL-16) 25.Diane Black (TN-6) 26.Vicky Hartzler (MO-4)27.Tom Cole (OK-4)28.Peter King (NY-3) 29.Jeff Duncan (SC-3) 30.Renee Ellmers (NC-2) 31.Steve Womack (AR-3) 32.Candice Miller (MI-33.Don Manzullo (IL-16) 34.Joe Wilson (SC-02) 35.Reid Ribble (WI-8) 36.Gary Miller (CA-42) 37.Ben Quayle (AZ-3)38.David Schweikert (AZ-5) 39.Joe Walsh (IL-8) 40.Steve Chabot (OH-1)41.Steve King (IA-5)42.Jeff Miller (FL-1) 43.Francisco Canseco (TX-23) 44.Cathy McMorris Rogers (WA-5) 45.Bill Johnson (OH-06) 46.Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6)47.Marsha Blackburn (TN-7) 48.Austin Scott (GA-8) 49.Duncan Hunter (CA-52) 50.Robert Aderholt (AL-4) 51.Joe Barton (TX-6)52.Tim Griffin (AR-2)53.Michael McCaul (TX-10) 54.Denny Rehberg (MT-At Large)55.Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46)56.Todd Rokita (IN-4)57.Lamar Smith (TX-21)58.Marlin Stutzman (IN-3) 59.Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3) 60.Kevin Yoder (KS-3) 61.Howard Coble (NC-6) 62.Ken Calvert (CA-44) 63.Jo Bonner (AL-1) 64.James Lankford (OK-5) 65.Billy Long (MO-7) 66.Frank Guinta (NH-01) 67.Frank Lucas (OK-3) 68.Rick Berg (ND-At Large)69. Marsha Blackburn (TN-7)70. Sean Duffy (WI-7)71. Stephen Fincher (TN-8) CLICK HERE to read about The Heritage Foundation’s support for K-FAST.Also supportive of K-FAST is the American Supply Association. CLICK HERE to read the letter sent to Congressman Poe. Congressman Ted Poe represents the 2nd Congressional District of Texas where the Keystone XL Pipeline would end.
01.23.2012	Today I learned that Representative Giffords is stepping down from the United States Congress this week. Gabby is a wonderful friend and I will deeply miss her presence in Washington, DC. I have had the privilege of working with her on the issue of border security. She embodies the spirit of bipartisanship that we should all learn from. Gabby never made decisions based on her party, to her it has always been about what is right for the people.My grandmother always told me that there is nothing more powerful than a woman who has made up her mind. Gabby has always been that woman. She is compassionate, tenacious, and relentless in her love for America. Her desire to serve and represent the people of Arizona in the best way she can has never wavered, and I know that she will carry that same feisty spirit with her long past her days in Congress.When faced with what seemed to be insurmountable odds, Gabby has fought each day to get better. Her recovery has been miraculous, and I know that she will only continue to get stronger. Although she will no longer serve in Congress, the people of Arizona have not lost their advocate. No question about it---Gabby is a fighter, and she fights for what she believes in. She is fiercely dedicated to making her community and her country a better place. Always has been and always will be. And thatís just the way it is.
01.18.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 18, 2012WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement responding to the Administration’s decision to reject the Keystone XL Pipeline project. “Today the Administration destroyed at least 20,000 potential jobs with one ill-advised and politically calculated decision, “said Poe. “I am deeply disappointed by the decision to reject the Keystone XL Pipeline, a choice that deprives this nation of much-needed jobs and a valuable source of energy from a friendly ally.Not only did the Administration say no to the Keystone XL Pipeline, it said no to thousands of union jobs that would be created in construction and no to more jobs in refineries. It said no to our stable ally to the North, Canada, who is one of our closest trading partners. It said no to Americans who are struggling to pay the high cost of fuel just to get to work. There are some victors in this tale. The winners of the Administration’s decision are the unstable Middle Eastern nations who control the supply of U.S. oil; the malicious dictators, like Chavez, who have declared America their enemy while at the same time enjoying the benefits of our business, and Ahmadinejad, who threaten to close the Strait of Hormuz, and the radical environmental lobby who is so blinded by its hatred of “big oil” that it overlooks the fact that pipelines are without a doubt the most cost-effective, safe and environmentally sound way to transport oil and natural gas. The White House made this decision based on what is best for politics not for people. This is a lost opportunity for America. Canada will still build the pipeline, but instead of heading down into the U.S., the oil will be sent west to our chief competitor in the world—China. Americans are in need of a stable source of energy, and they are thirsty for jobs. This project would provide both, free of cost to the taxpayers. It would enhance our national security, energy security and economic security. But instead of providing some relief to the people, the Administration has turned its back on the American people and just said no. The Administration still refuses to take a position on the Keystone XL Pipeline, blaming its decision not on the merits of the project but the 60 day deadline that was included in legislation in December. America has been waiting for approval on the Keystone Pipeline for more than 3 years. The Administration has already had enough time to make a decision. In today’s announcement the Administration failed to admit three things: (1) the Administration picked its own deadline, first quarter 2013—conveniently right after the election; (2) the 60 day deadline passed both Chambers of Congress with bipartisan support; (3) the President signed the legislation including the 60 day deadline into law. If creating jobs really was the number one priority of this Administration, it would not be actively destroying new jobs for American workers. And that’s just the way it is.”Congressman Poe represents the 2nd Congressional district where the pipeline ends.
01.06.2012	Department of JusticeOffice of Public Affairs FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Friday, January 6, 2012 Attorney General Eric Holder Announces Revisions to the Uniform Crime Report’s Definition of RapeData Reported on Rape Will Better Reflect State Criminal Codes, Victim ExperiencesAttorney General Eric Holder today announced revisions to the Uniform Crime Report’s (UCR) definition of rape, which will lead to a more comprehensive statistical reporting of rape nationwide. The new definition is more inclusive, better reflects state criminal codes and focuses on the various forms of sexual penetration understood to be rape. The new definition of rape is: “The penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.” The definition is used by the FBI to collect information from local law enforcement agencies about reported rapes. “Rape is a devastating crime and we can’t solve it unless we know the full extent of it,” said Vice President Biden, a leader in the effort to end violence against women for over 20 years and author of the landmark Violence Against Women Act. “This long-awaited change to the definition of rape is a victory for women and men across the country whose suffering has gone unaccounted for over 80 years.” “These long overdue updates to the definition of rape will help ensure justice for those whose lives have been devastated by sexual violence and reflect the Department of Justice’s commitment to standing with rape victims,” Attorney General Holder said. “This new, more inclusive definition will provide us with a more accurate understanding of the scope and volume of these crimes.” “The FBI’s Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Advisory Policy Board recently recommended the adoption of a revised definition of rape within the Summary Reporting System of the Uniform Crime Reporting Program,” said David Cuthbertson, FBI Assistant Director, CJIS Division. “This definitional change was recently approved by FBI Director Robert S. Mueller. This change will give law enforcement the ability to report more complete rape offense data, as the new definition reflects the vast majority of state rape statutes. As we implement this change, the FBI is confident that the number of victims of this heinous crime will be more accurately reflected in national crime statistics.” The revised definition includes any gender of victim or perpetrator, and includes instances in which the victim is incapable of giving consent because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity, including due to the influence of drugs or alcohol or because of age. The ability of the victim to give consent must be determined in accordance with state statute. Physical resistance from the victim is not required to demonstrate lack of consent. The new definition does not change federal or state criminal codes or impact charging and prosecution on the local level. “The revised definition of rape sends an important message to the broad range of rape victims that they are supported and to perpetrators that they will be held accountable,” said Justice Department Director of the Office on Violence Against Women Susan B. Carbon. “We are grateful for the dedicated work of all those involved in making and implementing the changes that reflect more accurately the devastating crime of rape.”T he longstanding, narrow definition of forcible rape, first established in 1927, is “the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will.” It thus included only forcible male penile penetration of a female vagina and excluded oral and anal penetration; rape of males; penetration of the vagina and anus with an object or body part other than the penis; rape of females by females; and, non-forcible rape.Police departments submit data on reported crimes and arrests to the UCR. The UCR data are reported nationally and used to measure and understand crime trends. In addition, the UCR program will also collect data based on the historical definition of rape, enabling law enforcement to track consistent trend data until the statistical differences between the old and new definitions are more fully understood. The revised definition of rape is within FBI’s UCR Summary Reporting System Program. The new definition is supported by leading law enforcement agencies and advocates and reflects the work of the FBI’s CJIS Advisory Policy Board. Click here to read a blog post from Director Carbon on the importance of the new definition of rape to our nation’s law enforcement, and for survivors of rape and their advocates. Click here to listen to the FBI’s podcast .
01.05.2012	Presidential Proclamation -- National Stalking Awareness Month, 2012BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAA PROCLAMATIONIn our schools and in our neighborhoods, at home and in workplaces across our Nation, stalking endangers the physical and emotional well being of millions of American men and women every year. Too often, stalking goes unreported and unaddressed, and we must take action against this unacceptable abuse. This month, we stand with all those who have been affected by stalking and strengthen our resolve to prevent this crime before it occurs.Stalkers inspire fear through intimidation, explicit or implied threats, and nonconsensual communication often by telephone, text message, or email that can cause severe emotional and physical distress. Many victims suffer anxiety attacks, feelings of anger or helplessness, and depression. Fearing for their safety, some are forced to relocate or change jobs to protect themselves. And, tragically, stalking can be a precursor to more violent offenses, including sexual assault and homicide. The consequences of this crime are real, and they take a profound and ongoing toll on men, women, teens, and children across our country.Despite the dangerous reality of stalking, public awareness and legal responses to this crime remain limited. New data show that one in six women and one in 19 men have experienced stalking that caused them to be very fearful or feel that they or someone close to them were in immediate physical danger. Among men and women alike, victims are most commonly stalked by current or former intimate partners, and young adults are at the highest risk for stalking victimization. Though stalking can occur in any community, shame, fear of retribution, or concerns that they will not be supported lead many victims to forego reporting the crime to the police. As we strive to reverse this trend, we must do more to promote public awareness and support for survivors of stalking.My Administration is working to advance protection and services for stalking victims, empower survivors to break the cycle of abuse, and bring an end to violence against women and men. With unprecedented coordination between Federal agencies, we are promoting new tools to decrease the incidence of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking, and we are taking action to ensure perpetrators are held accountable. To reinforce these efforts, advocates, law enforcement officials, and others who work with victims must continue to improve their capacity to respond with swift and comprehensive action. From raising awareness to pursuing criminal justice, all of us have a role to play in stopping this senseless and harmful behavior.This month, let us come together to prevent abuse, violence, and harassment in all their forms and renew our commitment to bring care and support to those in need.NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2012 as National Stalking Awareness Month. I call on all Americans to learn to recognize the signs of stalking, acknowledge stalking as a serious crime, and urge those impacted not to be afraid to speak out or ask for help. Let us also resolve to support victims and survivors, and to create communities that are secure and supportive for all Americans.IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty eighth day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand eleven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-sixth.BARACK OBAMA
01.04.2012	The White HouseOffice of the Press SecretaryFor Immediate ReleaseDecember 30, 2011Presidential Proclamation -- National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month, 2012BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAA PROCLAMATIONNearly a century and a half ago, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation -- a document that reaffirmed the noble goals of equality and freedom for all that lie at the heart of what it means to live in America. In the years since, we have tirelessly pursued the realization and protection of these essential principles. Yet, despite our successes, thousands of individuals living in the United States and still more abroad suffer in silence under the intolerable yoke of modern slavery. During National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month, we stand with all those who are held in compelled service; we recognize the people, organizations, and government entities that are working to combat human trafficking; and we recommit to bringing an end to this inexcusable human rights abuse.Human trafficking endangers the lives of millions of people around the world, and it is a crime that knows no borders. Trafficking networks operate both domestically and transnationally, and although abuses disproportionally affect women and girls, the victims of this ongoing global tragedy are men, women, and children of all ages. Around the world, we are monitoring the progress of governments in combating trafficking while supporting programs aimed at its eradication. From forced labor and debt bondage to forced commercial sexual exploitation and involuntary domestic servitude, human trafficking leaves no country untouched. With this knowledge, we rededicate ourselves to forging robust international partnerships that strengthen global anti-trafficking efforts, and to confronting traffickers here at home.My Administration continues to implement our comprehensive strategy to combat human trafficking in America. By coordinating our response across Federal agencies, we are working to protect victims of human trafficking with effective services and support, prosecute traffickers through consistent enforcement, and prevent human rights abuses by furthering public awareness and addressing the root causes of modern slavery. The steadfast defense of human rights is an essential part of our national identity, and as long as individuals suffer the violence of slavery and human trafficking, we must continue the fight.With the start of each year, we commemorate the anniversaries of the Emancipation Proclamation, which became effective on January 1, 1863, and the 13th Amendment to abolish slavery, which was signed by President Abraham Lincoln and submitted to the States for ratification on February 1, 1865. These documents stand as testaments to the gains we have made in pursuit of freedom and justice for all, and they remind us of the work that remains to be done. This month, I urge all Americans to educate themselves about all forms of modern slavery and the signs and consequences of human trafficking. Together, and in cooperation with our partners around the world, we can work to end this terrible injustice and protect the rights to life and liberty entrusted to us by our forebears and owed to our children.NOW, THEREFORE, I, BARACK OBAMA, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2012 as National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month, culminating in the annual celebration of National Freedom Day on February 1. I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the vital role we can play in ending modern slavery and to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities.IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand eleven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirty-sixth.BARACK OBAMA
12.15.2011	Last night, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act of 2011 (NDAA). I supported this legislation because it increases the pay for our men and women in uniform and provides them with the resources they need to keep our nation safe. It also puts concrete measures in place to weaken our enemies abroad. Cutting off funding to hostile nations is the most effective way to ensure that they are not able to inflict terror on the United States or our allies. Finally, this bill will increase the safety of our citizens at home by enabling the Department of Defense to help defend the southern border with Mexico. The NDAA protects the civil rights of all American citizens in the United States. Habeas corpus applies and these individuals are subject to law enforcement, not military, authority. It is crucial that the Department of Defense has the support of Congress in order to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. Former FBI Director William Sessions supports the NDAA Conference report that passed the House, his original concern was only with the Senate language. ###
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. ñ This week, U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) and Jason Altmire (PA-04) along with other Members of Congress, sent a letter to President Barack Obama, urging him not to reduce the presence of the National Guard on the U.S.-Mexico border. The letter responded to reports that the Administration plans to withdraw half of the National Guard troops currently in the region. ìIt has recently come to our attention that your administration plans to reduce the presence of National Guard troops deployed along the U.S.-Mexico border in the coming year,î the Congressmen wrote in the letter. ìWe have grave concerns about this proposed shift in policy and we urge you to extend the current deployment of 1,200 National Guard troops on the southern border past December 31, 2011.îThe Government Accountability Office (GAO) recently reported that the U.S. Border Patrol only has operational control of 44 percent of the southern U.S. border. This number is unacceptable and illustrates the need for the continued presence of the National Guard on the border. In June, Congressmen Poe and Altmire offered an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) appropriations bill to re-allocate $10 million from the Office of the Under Secretary for Management of DHS to the Border Security, Fencing, Infrastructure and Technology account to improve the mobile communications between Border Patrol, law enforcement and residents. During a visit to the U.S. ñMexico border, the Congressmen noted the lack of sufficient communications technology infrastructure to support the work of border patrol agents to protect the surrounding communities. ###
12.14.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEWASHINGTON – Today, Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) introduced the “Water for the World Act of 2012,” bipartisan legislation that strengthens U.S. foreign assistance in water and sanitation by leveraging innovation, strengthening partnerships, and improving transparency and accountability, without making additional demands on the foreign assistance budget. The bill improves the effectiveness of our aid programs and moves us towards greater country-ownership of projects, while ensuring our investments have long-term impacts. It allows us to provide more by using less in support of the world’s poorest people. Nearly 900 million people around the world don’t have clean drinking water and 2.6 billion lack access to improved sanitation. The absence of these resources poses a significant challenge for development and security around the world, reinforcing a cycle of poverty and instability that represents both a humanitarian disaster and a national security threat.“We can improve access to clean water by improving leadership and accountability,” said Blumenauer. “We don’t have to spend millions searching for a cure, because something as simple as teaching the value of washing hands or providing access to basic technology we already have is all it takes to save millions of lives. Without asking for any increase in funding, the Water for the World Act puts in place a new set of priorities for our foreign assistance programs that will make them more effective at delivering the help that many so desperately need.”“Water is key to just about every kind of development,” said Poe. “If we don’t get water right, it doesn’t matter how many schools we build or vaccines we pass out- we might as well throw our money down the drain. This bill is about using taxpayer dollars more effectively by making water a priority in any development discussion- like it should be.”Children are most vulnerable to water-related diseases: 90% of all deaths caused by diarrheal diseases are children under 5 years of age, mostly in developing countries. In all, 1.8 million children under the age of 5 die every year, more than from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria combined. The economic impacts are devastating. In India alone, inadequate sanitation costs $53.8 billion—6.4 percent of its GDP—every year. This legislation drives our development assistance programs to provide a greater, more effective role in providing access to clean water and sanitation. Building upon the success of the 2005 Water for the Poor Act, this bill enhances the capacity of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the State Department to play a greater, more effective role in development assistance as well as mitigate cross-border conflict. The bill: Elevates the existing position of the Global Water Coordinator within USAID to integrate and implement water strategies, and deliver aid more effectively;Elevates the existing position of the Special Advisor for Water Resources within the State Department to coordinate the diplomatic policy of the U.S. with respect to global freshwater issues;Increases the sustainability of water, sanitation and hygiene projects to ensure that our investments continue to provide benefits over the long-term;Increases country-ownership of water, sanitation and hygiene projects to ensure that our foreign assistance dollars meet the needs of poor local communities, rather than officials in Washington; andIncrease transparency of aid and creating monitoring and evaluation standards that focus on impact to ensure USAID and the State Department can identify and utilize best-practices. ### December 14, 2011Contact: Derek Schlickeisen, 202.225.0820Poe Contact: Shaylyn Hynes, 202.225.6565
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - ìDecember 7, 1941, a date that will live in infamy,'' were words spoken by President Franklin D. Roosevelt that became forever embedded in the hearts and minds of patriots across our land, igniting and launching a nation into the fiery trenches of battle. Those of that greatest generation proved that when the peace of this nation is threatened, our people will stand up and fight back, bringing the thunder of God upon our enemies. Defending freedom and liberty was the battle cry of the sailors and soldiers that died 70 years ago at Pearl Harbor. We must continue to remember December 7th 1941 and the Americans who stood tall and kept the flame of America glowing brightly.###
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC ñToday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined President Obama in the Oval Office as he signed the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 into law.ìToday is a historic day for the Peace Corps, ì said Poe. ìThis bipartisan legislation will implement necessary reforms in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution for the young ambassadors of America to serve. This law is a tribute to Kate Puzey and the other past victims of violence in the Peace Corps. Their suffering has resulted in positive change to protect Americaís Angels Abroad.îThis law will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers worldwide. The legislation is named for Kate Puzey, a 24-year-old Peace Corps Volunteer who was murdered in 2009 in Benin. Congressman Poe authored the companion House version of the legislation which passed the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously on September 22, 2011. This legislation will require the Peace Corps to develop sexual assault risk-reduction and response training and protocol in consultation with experts that complies with best practices in the sexual assault field. In addition, it will provide whistleblower protection for Peace Corps volunteers, a safeguard that is in place for federal employees but not Peace Corps volunteers. Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus. ###
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.--Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement on regarding H.J.Res2, a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution: Today, our nation faces a spending-driven debt crisis that is the single greatest threat to our security. We have gotten to this point because of Washingtonís reckless and unchecked spending binge. The most important component of any long-term plan for recovery must be to permanently reign in government spending.I voted for the Balanced Budget Amendment, a historic piece of legislation that would codify the rule of fiscal responsibility in the Constitution to require Washington to spend within its means and add accountability in Washington. I am disappointed that this legislation did not pass the House of Representatives. Kicking the can further down the road will saddle future generations with long-term debt is unacceptable. This is no solution to our fiscal crisis. It is the responsibility of the federal government elected by the people to be careful stewards of the peopleís money. It is time to force the government to permanently change its spending behavior by forcing the government to balance its budget. ###
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 3422 the Send Equipment for National Defense (SEND) Act. This legislation mandates that the Secretary of Defense transfer 10% of eligible returning equipment from Iraq to state and local law enforcement agencies for border security purposes. Eligible equipment would include: humvees, night vision equipment and surveillance unmanned aerial vehicles. This equipment would be made available to the officials through an already existing DOD program. Other equipment could also be sent to officials at the discretion of the Department of Defense. ìThe American people have invested billions of dollars in equipment used to secure Iraq; now itís time to use that equipment to secure the United Statesî, said Poe. ìState and local officials are doing the job of the federal governmentódefending the international border with Mexico. Itís time that Washington gives them the resources they need to protect Americans from cross border crime. Sending this equipment to the southern border would give Americans a return on their investment by enhancing our national security.î Over the next several months, a massive draw down of U.S. Forces in Iraq will occur. More than 1.5 million pieces of equipment have already been shipped out of Iraq over the last year and nearly 900,000 remain. Much of this equipment would be useful to the federal, state and local law enforcement in their efforts to secure the border with Mexico. There is also a waiver in the bill that states that if the Department of Defense certifies to Congress that there is an urgent need for the equipment then DOD will keep the equipment. ###
11.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.óToday Congressman Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement responding to the Administrationís announcement that it will further delay its decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline project:ìI am extremely disappointed that the President has decided not to decide on the Keystone Pipeline,î said Poe. ìHis choice to punt this until after the election shows a failure to put jobs and the people before politics. This transparent move discredits the claim that creating jobs is the number one priority of this Administration. If that were true, the Keystone XL Pipeline project would have already been approved. This project would inject thousands of much needed jobs into our economy, while providing the United States with a stable and consistent source of energy. ììThe pipeline would end in my Congressional District and would bring many lost jobs in the energy sector back to Southeast Texas. People all around the nation are in need of a stable source of energy, and they are thirsty for jobs. This project will provide both, free of cost to the taxpayers. It will enhance our national security, our energy security and our economic security. Canada wonít wait for the 2012 United States Presidential election. Instead, they will turn to our competitors, the Chinese, who are eager to do business with them. Itís time for the President to pick a horse and ride it.î###
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) hailed the unanimous passage of the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 (S. 1280) by the House of Representatives. This bipartisan legislation will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers worldwide. The legislation is named for Kate Puzey, a 24-year-old Peace Corps Volunteer who was murdered in 2009 in Benin. Congressman Poe authored the companion House version of the legislation, which passed the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously on September 22, 2011. ìI am thankful that this important piece of bipartisan legislation is on its way to the Presidentís desk,îsaid Poe. I thank Senator Johnny Isakson for his leadership in getting this bill through the Senate. I also thank Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Ranking Member Howard Berman for their continued support of the companion House bill. This soon-to-be-law is a tribute to Kate Puzey and the other victims of violence in the Peace Corps. Their suffering is not forgotten and has resulted in positive steps to protect Americaís Angels Abroad to make sure that no one else suffers like they did. This legislation will facilitate important and immediate changes in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution as it enters its next fifty years.î This legislation will require the Peace Corps to develop sexual assault risk-reduction and response training and protocol in consultation with experts that complies with best practices in the sexual assault field. In addition, it will provide whistleblower protection for Peace Corps volunteers, a safeguard that is in place for federal employees but not for Peace Corps volunteers. The cost of legislation is offset and does not add to the national debt. The Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act passed both chambers unanimously. Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus.
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) hailed the unanimous passage of the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 (S. 1280) by the House of Representatives. This bipartisan legislation will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers worldwide. The legislation is named for Kate Puzey, a 24-year-old Peace Corps Volunteer who was murdered in 2009 in Benin. Congressman Poe authored the companion House version of the legislation, which passed the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously on September 22, 2011. ìI am thankful that this important piece of bipartisan legislation is on its way to the Presidentís desk,îsaid Poe. I thank Senator Johnny Isakson for his leadership in getting this bill through the Senate. I also thank Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Ranking Member Howard Berman for their continued support of the companion House bill. This soon-to-be-law is a tribute to Kate Puzey and the other victims of violence in the Peace Corps. Their suffering is not forgotten and has resulted in positive steps to protect Americaís Angels Abroad to make sure that no one else suffers like they did. This legislation will facilitate important and immediate changes in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution as it enters its next fifty years.î This legislation will require the Peace Corps to develop sexual assault risk-reduction and response training and protocol in consultation with experts that complies with best practices in the sexual assault field. In addition, it will provide whistleblower protection for Peace Corps volunteers, a safeguard that is in place for federal employees but not for Peace Corps volunteers. The cost of legislation is offset and does not add to the national debt. The Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act passed both chambers unanimously. Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus.
10.27.2011	Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard Representing California’s 34th Congressional DistrictFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: OCTOBER 27, 2011 CONTACT: DOUGLAS FARRAR (202) 225-1766 REP. LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD (CA-34) INTRODUCES THE SAFE ACT TO ENSURE ECONOMIC STABILITY FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT AND STALKINGBipartisan legislation to help victims of domestic violence break free from their abusersCongresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) today introduced the Security and Financial Empowerment Act (SAFE Act – HR 3271) to ensure that victims of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking have the financial independence they need to break free from their abusers. “Domestic Violence Awareness Month is a fitting time to address the awful consequences of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Not only do these crimes have serious physical and psychological impacts on victims, but the economic consequences perpetuate the abuse. Many victims stay with or return to their abusers because they are financially dependent on them,” said Rep. Roybal-Allard (D-CA). “I have introduced the SAFE Act with my Republican colleague Ted Poe of Texas to break the cycle of violence by providing victims with employment and financial protections to safely leave abusive situations. This bipartisan effort sets politics aside to help victims of domestic violence who are in urgent need of assistance.” “Victims of domestic violence need time to seek medical care and necessary assistance just like anyone else suffering with health issues. I'm proud to co-sponsor the SAFE Act to ensure these victims have the time they need recover and rebuild their lives,” Said Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX). "The SAFE Act is an important step forward in helping women who are being abused and their children stay safe," said Esta Soler, president and founder of Futures Without Violence. "We commend Congresswoman Roybal-Allard and Congressman Ted Poe for helping women keep their jobs and protect themselves economically so they never have to choose between staying with their batterer, and poverty or homelessness. Importantly, the bill also recognizes the role employers play in fighting domestic violence and sexual assault by continuing authorization for the National Workplace Resource Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence." The SAFE Act gives victims the tools and opportunities to securely make the often difficult choice to seek help or leave an abusive situation. The SAFE Act would help victims of domestic violence by: Allowing a domestic violence survivor to take up to 30 days off from work in a 12-month period to receive medical attention, seek legal assistance, attend court proceedings and get help with safety planning. Protecting employees from being fired because they were harassed by their abuser, obtained protective orders, participated in the criminal or civil justice process, or sought modifications at work to increase workplace safety in response to domestic or sexual violence.Requiring employers to make reasonable safety precautions or job-related modifications if requested unless doing so would impose an undue burden on the employer. Ensuring that victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking who have been separated from their employment as a result of such violence, are eligible for unemployment insurance. The SAFE Act also reauthorizes the Workplace Resource Center, which was created during the last reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). With this authorization, the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women is authorized to award grants to eligible nonprofit nongovernmental or tribal organizations in order to provide for the establishment and operation of a national resource center on workplace responses to assist victims of domestic and sexual violence. The SAFE Act would also make victim services organizations eligible for grants. Currently 40 states and the District of Columbia have laws or regulations that explicitly provide unemployment insurance to domestic violence victims in certain circumstances, and none of the laws explicitly cover victims of sexual assault or stalking. The SAFE Act would replace the uneven and often insufficient protections offered by existing state laws with a federal standard that would apply uniformly throughout the nation A longtime advocate on behalf of victims of domestic and sexual violence, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard has introduced this legislation in every Congress since 1996. An earlier provision of the SAFE Act was enacted into law as part of the Violence Against Women Act of 2005. That provision created an electronic National Resource Center on Workplace Responses to Domestic Violence. Futures Without Violence leads a partnership of eight organizations in conducting the National Resource Center and has been a significant force for more than a decade in helping women keep their jobs in the face of abuse from a partner, while helping employers keep their workplaces safe.###
10.18.2011	Washington, Oct 13 -WASHINGTON, DC ñ This week, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced H.R. 3159, the Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act. This bill would require the President to establishóand the heads of federal agencies to implementómeasurable goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for all foreign assistance programs. It would bring transparency and accountability to the foreign aid process by requiring agencies to keep the American people informed about where their money is spent and how effective the aid is. ìIt is time to modernize and reform the outdated American foreign aid programî, said Poe. ìUnder the current system, billions of taxpayer dollars are sent to a majority of the countries in the world and no one really knows how efficient or effective that aid is. Now more than ever it is important for people to know exactly where their money is being sent. American resources should be dispersed strategically in the places where it is in the national interest of the United States. There must be measureable goals and ways to monitor how successful the assistance really is. This legislation would address all of these needs by bringing transparency and accountability to the outdated American Foreign Aid program ìThe Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act has bipartisan support from the Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee Howard Berman (D-CA) and 29 other members of Congress. The ONE Foundation and Modernize Foreign Assistance Network have also expressed support for the bill.###Congressman Poe is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Earlier this year, he introduced the Foreign Aid Accountability Act that would require Congress to have an up or down vote on each country that the United States gives foreign aid to.
10.18.2011	Press contact: Shaylyn Hynes, shaylyn.hynes@mail.house.govWashington, Oct 11 -Today, we learned of a foiled, international terrorist attack on US soil. Our law enforcement officials are to be commended for defending our country and saving lives.Iranís failed attempt to carry out an attack on American soil is deeply disturbing yet not surprising. The effort by this known State sponsor of terror to simultaneously attack the United States, Israel and Saudi Arabia is an act of aggression against all three nations.The best hope for change in Iran is for our government to verbally support the Iranian freedom fighters in their efforts to change the regime in Iran. The dissidents in Iran must know that the United States stands with them in their efforts to overthrow their oppressive government.Historically, sanctions against Iran have been unsuccessful because they have not been fully enforced. The Administrationís lack of resolve to enforce the economic sanctions against Iran has only emboldened the country. The United States must do all its can to isolate the dictatorship in Iran from the rest of the world. From this plot, we have also learned that Iran is willing to conspire with other terrorist organizations closer to our border. Although Iran was unsuccessful this time, the narco-terrorists' proven ability to infiltrate the border of the United States make them an attractive partner for Iran. This is yet another example of how the drug cartels and the porous border that they cross daily are a national security threat to the United States.To prevent this from happening again, Iran must understand that there are real consequences for even a failed attempt. Any further action taken against Iran must be authorized by the President with the cooperation of Congress, the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security.
10.03.2011	Washington, Sep 23 -Ultimately, the only way we get lasting peace is if the Palestinians and Israelis work it out between themselves. The Palestinians going to the UN is a distraction that helps no one and makes lasting peace even harder to attain. It does not solve any of the key sticking points: not borders, not right of return, and not the status of Jerusalem. Instead, it gives Palestinians the false hope that some international declaration will immediately change their quality of life. It wonít. The U.S. came too late to this fight but it is no surprise that the anti-Israel UN passed this resolution. It was just one more chance for the UN to show its bigotry against Israel. Israel has offered time and again to return to the negotiating table with no preconditions- if the Palestinians are serious about peace, they will do the same.###
09.22.2011	Washington, Sep 21 -WASHINGTON, DC ñ Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) hailed the passage of the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. This bipartisan legislation will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers worldwide. The Committeeís Chairwoman Illeana Ros-Lehtinen and Ranking Member Howard Berman are co-sponsors of the bill.ìI applaud the members of the committee for supporting this important piece of legislation, and I look forward to the speedy passage of this bill in the House and Senateî, said Poe. ìNow is the time to protect Americaís Angels Abroad. The young men and women who volunteer in the Peace Corps are dedicated to taking care of others; now it is time to make sure that the U.S. takes care of them. I am hopeful that this legislation will facilitate important and immediate change in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution.îOver the last ten years, volunteers in the Peace Corps have suffered an average of 22 rapes and 267 assaults each year. Right now, new volunteers are not trained on sexual assault issues and are often placed in dangerous situations. The agencyís in-country post-incident response often fails to meet victimsí needs. When volunteers return to the United States, they are confronted with hostile, rather than supportive treatment. There is so much bureaucratic red-tape that some of the victims are never able to get through it all and as a result, they do not receive the long-term medical and mental health care that they need and deserve.This legislation will amend the Peace Corps Act to require sexual assault risk-reduction and response training, the development of sexual assault protocol and guidelines, the establishment of an office of victim advocacy and the establishment of a Sexual Assault Advisory Council.Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victimsí Rights Caucus. Isakson serves on the Subcommittee on African Affairs on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations###
09.22.2011	Washington, Sep 16 -After researching the proposed substance abuse rehabilitation facility in Kingwood and speaking to the Texas Department of State Health Services and the Cityís Office of Occupancy Inspections, it appears that this issue falls under local jurisdiction. The facility currently has permits pending with the City of Houston and the State of Texas. No federal permitting is involved and the current circumstances do not invoke the federal Fair Housing Act. While I continue to support my constituents who believe that this type of facility is inappropriate in a residential community, this matter must be handled by officials from the city of Houston and the State of Texas. I believe the City should reevaluate the granting of this permit and take into consideration the concerns of the people who live in this community. ###
09.22.2011	Washington, Sep 14 -Over the past few days, my office has received several complaints concerning a proposed ìrehabilitation facilityî in Kingwood that would house adult males who enter for alcohol and substance abuse treatment. The complaints allege that the federal Fair Housing Act supersedes local deed restrictions. I am looking into this matter to determine whether the appropriate response is through an administrative solution on the federal level, legal recourse through the City of Houston, or some other alternative. I donít think such a facility is appropriate for a residential community, especially when itís against the wishes of the majority of the residents in the area. I will release further information when it comes to me.###
09.22.2011	Washington, Sep 9 -Dear Neighbors,We remember the exact moment, ten years ago Sunday, that we learned about a plane crashing into the World Trade Center in New York City. We remember the details of what we were doing and the confusion we felt about what was happening. At the time, I was a criminal judge in Harris County. I was driving my jeep to the courthouse in downtown Houston listening to KILT when news anchor Robert B. Mcentire reported that a plane had crashed into a tower at the World Trade Center. As the day continued, we learned more details about the other planes that crashed into the second tower, the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania. Our initial confusion turned into anger and sadness.For the rest of the day, we were glued to the TV as the news showed both towers crashing to the ground and the subsequent panic that ensued as people ran away to escape the cloud of debris that quickly spread throughout the city. But as people were frantically running away from the World Trade Center, another group of people were running toward the disaster. They were the first responders ñ firefighters, police officers, paramedics, doctors, volunteers ñ who selflessly risked and gave their lives to help their fellow Americans during a time of tragedy. As the rescue efforts continued, first responders and volunteers went to New York City from all over the country to help in any way that they could.As a result of the first responders and volunteersí heroism, many got to live another day. There are countless stories of the selfless bravery that occurred on 9/11, how Americans reacted extraordinarily in order to rescue a complete stranger, a fellow American. In the face of attack, we pulled through with a remarkable spirit of unity and compassion that swept through our country.As we remember the tragedy that occurred 10 years ago, we should also remember the individuals who put their lives in jeopardy for the sake of their country. We should remember those who died, those who got to live, and those who continue to fight for our freedoms today in places all over the world in the name of liberty and freedom.And thatís just the way it is.
09.22.2011	Bill protects Constitutional Right to Freedom of Religion for VeteransWashington, Sep 8 -WASHINGTON, DCó This week Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Veteransí Religious Freedom Act in response to the alleged religious censorship taking place at the Houston National Cemetery. This legislation will prohibit the Veterans Administration from limiting the free speech of any member of a veteran service organization or any person who else who has been invited to speak at a funeral service of a veteran. It will also require that within 90 days of the passage of the bill, all VA cemetery directors must be veterans. Finally, it will mandate that the VA inform families of veterans all options available to loved ones when they are planning funeral services.ìIt is the constitutional duty of the federal government to protect speech and religion, not prohibit it. Government censorship of funeral services for our veterans is unacceptable, unconstitutional and un-American. The policy of the director of the Houston VA Cemetery is anti-Christian, anti-religion and anti-veteran. What has reportedly taken place at the Houston VA Cemetery is inexcusable, and Congress must take immediate action to protect the rights of those who have fought and died for our country.îCongressman Poe represents the Second District of Texas. He serves on the House Judiciary Committee. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov/.###
09.08.2011	Washington, Sep 8 -The President's philosophy seems to be "If it fails once, do it again." The 14 million unemployed Americans can't afford the same failed stimulus experiment. Vague promises, massive government spending and increasing the burden on businesses did not grow the economy the first time, it made it worse. The White House has already proven once before that it can't spend or tax its way into prosperity. Raising taxes on American job creators to pay the Obama plan's $450 billion price tag will guarantee failure. It's time for Washington to get out of the way so the private sector can get America working again. And that's just the way it is.
08.06.2011	Today America mourns the loss of the 31 courageous warriors who were killed in the helicopter crash in Afghanistan. These brave souls gave their lives in the name of defending freedom and we honor their sacrifice. My thoughts and prayers go out to their loved ones during this difficult time.
08.04.2011	Click here to watch Congressman Poe discuss the Foreign Aid Accountability Act. ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC Tonight Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement on the Budget Control Act: Tonight the House voted on the Budget Control Act of 2011. After careful thought and consideration, I have decided that I cannot support final passage of this legislation. This is a watered-down version of the original bill that passed the House on Friday. It does not include sufficient future spending reductions and most importantly, does not mandate passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution before allowing the President to raise the debt ceiling a second time. Passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment is the key ingredient to restoring financial stability in this country. It is the only path forward that would provide meaningful, effective and permanent change in Washingtons fiscal behavior. I cant support a plan that does not permanently change Washingtons addiction to spending Americans money. And thats just the way it is.
07.22.2011	Today the House passed the Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill for FY 2012. This bill included 6.4% (or $227 million) in spending cuts for Members of Congress offices. This is on top of the 5% that we cut in FY 2011. Significant, across the board spending cuts are the only way to recover the economy, and Congress is no exception to that rule. I believe in practicing what you preach. During my time in Congress, I have consistently run my Congressional office below budget each fiscal year and have returned money to the taxpayers as well. It is our responsibility as Members of Congress to be careful stewards of the money coming from the people we work for--the American taxpayers.###
07.22.2011	Today Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement regarding the completion and signing of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Chiefs Report of the Sabine Neches Waterway Project: I am pleased that the Army Corps of Engineers has finally completed the Chiefs Report for the Sabine Neches Waterway Deepening Project, said Poe. Completing the deepening of the Sabine Neches Waterway (SNWW) channel has been a top priority since I was elected to Congress. Today marks the beginning of the next phase in this project. Now that the Chiefs Report has been completed, it is time for Congress to act by authorizing the SNWW project in the next Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). Until then, I will continue to vigorously advocate for this crucial project by educating other Members of Congress on the importance of the SNWW to our countrys energy industry and national security. With their support, I am confident that this will be included in the WRDA bill. ? In 2007, Congressman Poe secured language in the 2007 WRDA bill to expedite completion of the Chiefs Report for the project.
07.20.2011	This week, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced the American Land Act. This bill would require the Administration to open up nearly 1/4 of the land currently owned by the federal government for sale to the American people. The federal government currently owns 27% (623 million acres) of the total land in the United States. This land is larger than the countries of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, Italy, United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Belgium put together. The proceeds from the salespotentially $200 billion or more--would be directly applied to reduce the federal budget deficit. It is time for the federal government to let Americans own American land. The government cannot afford its massive estate; we need to give up some of our assets so that we can pay our bills, said Poe. Allowing Americans to buy American land would provide a way to generate new revenue without new taxes, create new jobs and stimulate economic growth. Transferring ownership of natural resources to the public would also be a more efficient way to utilize our natural assets. This is a common sense solution to reducing the national debt. Allowing Americans to purchase 24.3% (174 million acres) of this land would have the potential to generate up to $200 billion or more to pay off the federal budget deficit. The bill does not authorize the sale of land owned by the National Park Service or the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. ###
07.15.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) has believed Jamie Leigh Jones story since the first time he heard from her family and is disappointed by the recent decision in her civil trial. He issued the following statement:On July 29, 2005, my office received a call from Mr. Thomas Jones, who was my constituent at the time. He informed me that his daughter had been brutally raped in Baghdad. He asked for my staffs help in determining his daughter was safe and returning her to the United States. My office promptly contacted Jenny Foo at the State Department to inform her of the disturbing call that we had received and to ask that she look into the situation immediately. During this phone call, we shared information with the State Department, including Ms. Jones social security number, her date of birth, and her fathers phone number. At no point during the call, did Ms. Foo indicate to my staff that the State Department was already aware of this case or that the State Department previously had such identifiable information. Later that same day, Ms. Foo followed up with another phone call to my office to say that two agents had been dispatched, and Ms. Jones would be brought back to the United States. Since that day, Ms. Jones and her family have credited my staff with helping to bring her back safely to the United States. I do not regret responding to a constituents call for help or assisting Ms. Jamie Lee Jones and her family.
07.13.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement condemning the terrorist attacks that occurred today in India:My thoughts and prayers are with those who lost their loved ones in the three deadly attacks in Mumbai today, said Poe. India is a loyal ally of the United States, and they must know that we stand with them in the fight against our common enemy of global terrorism. The loss of innocent life in the name of hatred is intolerable and those who are responsible for these massacres must be found and brought to justice for their crimes against humanity. ###
07.12.2011	Today, Congressman Poe (TX-02) cosponsored and voted for the Better Use of Light Bulb Act offered by Congressman Joe Barton (TX-06). This bill would repeal the de-facto ban on the incandescent light bulb that was included in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The de-facto ban on the incandescent light bulb is not a bright idea for America, said Poe. The federal government does not have the constitutional authority to force people to buy anythingfrom healthcare to a box of doughnuts to a light bulb. Many American families are struggling to put food on the table, they should not be forced to purchase the expensive government mandated light bulb just to have light in their homes. This incandescent light bulb ban also resulted in the loss of American jobs. All of the people who manufactured the incandescent light bulbs in America lost their jobs and now those jobs have been shipped off to China and Mexico. At a time when unemployment has climbed to 9.2%, it is foolish to impose any regulation that destroys American jobs. ###
07.08.2011	NEWSMAX: Rep. Ted Poe: Obama Toxic for Countryhttp://www.newsmax.com/TheWire/BarackObama-economy-depression/2011/07/07/id/402752The following is an op-ed written by the Texas congressman.We are worse off now than we were in 2008. The country is suffering through an economic recession with more long term unemployment than the Great Depression.The economy was in bad shape, but this administration made it worse. The unconstitutional government-takeover of healthcare created a cloud of uncertainty for small business owners, stalling job growth. Our healthcare system was in trouble before, but this administration made it worse.Our country is spiraling towards a domestic energy crisis thanks to the administrations insistence to punish U.S. energy companies. The price of energy was high before, but this administration has made it worse. Americans are becoming used to living with the word "crisis. Under this administration, crisis has become the new status quo.The president admits were on a bumpy road. Mr. President, this road is full of potholes. The national debt is expected to equal 101 percent of the economy in 10 years. Unemployment is hovering around 9.1 percent. Home sales have declined. The number of food stamp recipients has skyrocketed.Over the past three years, we have witnessed an administration set on entitling people, and paying them not to work as opposed to helping businesses hire people to work. We are worse off now than we were before the president stepped foot at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.We are stuck in this hole because the White Houses policies have been toxic to the countrys job creators. Businesses do not operate like the government does. They dont function under short term budgets. They dont plan for the next six days or six months, like our government does. Business owners want a plan.They want to know what will happen next. Under this cloud of uncertainty, businesses face Obamacares employer mandate and an onslaught of costly regulations. This leaves them with few choices: hold tight and wait it out, comply with government oppression and suffer, shutdown or move overseas.Coming up on this bumpy road is a domestic energy shortage. The White House seeks to punish the energy of today and tomorrow in favor of the potential energy of after-our-lifetimes. An energy agenda that is synonymous with stall, obstruct, discourage and penalize will only devastate our economy further and force more businesses and jobs to leave.Weve seen the administration slow-walk the approval process for offshore drilling permits despite lifting the moratorium. The delays have been costly, so costly that three rigs have left the Gulf for foreign waters. When companies leave the U.S., jobs leave the U.S. never to return. The coming domestic energy shortage will be partly due to the White Houses desire to help foreign nations with their own domestic energy production instead of maximizing our own god-given natural resources. When the president told Brazil that America would help expand its offshore drilling operations and be one of its best customers, he sent a clear message: I dont support U.S. oil, U.S. companies or U.S. workers.Each day that passes without a decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline a pipeline that would transport oil shales from our stable neighbor to the north right down to my congressional district is another day that the White House pivots on U.S. energy jobs. Meanwhile, China is eager and ready to be Canadas customer and will happily work with Canada if the president decides to turn down this golden opportunity of the Keystone Pipeline.The White House has a none-from-below mentality. We need an all-of-the above strategy that encourages use of our natural resources and puts Americans back to work. The administration has mastered the art of turning a crisis into an opportunity to show unpopular policies through. Over a year after the Deepwater Horizon explosion, the administration has come as close as it can to shutting down operations in the Gulf. The impact? 12,000 lost jobs.Are we better off today than we were in 2008? No. Our economy is still in a crisis of uncertainty. Were in our third war, the latest an unconstitutional, unilateral action by the president that has cost over $700 million thus far. Instead of blowing up Libya we should be building America.The White House has operated in crisis management mode, but its made many of our problems worse. When your team is in trouble, you look to the coach for guidance, for inspiration and for leadership. Under this administration, crisis is quickly becoming the status quo. This team wants a new coach. And thats just the way it is.
07.07.2011	The response from the Department of Veteran Affairs to Congressman Poes letter regarding the alleged censorship occurring at Houston National Cemetery. CLICK HERE TO READ THE RESPONSE
06.29.2011	I am deeply troubled by the allegations that were brought to my attention when I met with members of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) in Houston. The director of the Houston National Cemetery, Arleen Ocasio, allegedly has engaged in aggressive hostile censorship of religion at the second largest cemetery for veterans in the United States. The First Amendment is a sacred right of all Americans, especially those who have honorably served--and given their lives--in the name of protecting the United States. Denying their families their constitutional right to the free exercise of religious freedom is disgraceful and shows blatant disrespect for Americas veterans. If these allegations are true,I formally call for the termination of Arleen Ocasio as the director the Houston National Cemetery. This display of authoritarian behavior and religious discrimination should not be tolerated. List of Accusations1) Director Ocasio and other Cemetery Officials instructed Veterans of Foreign Wars District 4 to remove prayers from its burial rituals and to no longer utter remarks when handling the discharged shell cases from the rifle salute to the family of deceased veterans. 2) Cemetery Officials instructed American Legion Post 586 to remove prayers from its burial rituals. 3) Director Ocasio told the National Memorial Ladies that it could no longer include God Bless in its condolence cards or speak a religious message to veterans families.4) Director Ocascio shut down the Cemetery chapel; it is now a meeting facility
06.23.2011	Congressman Poe and Senator Isakson Introduce the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011Legislation will help protect victims of Violent Crime in the Peace Corps Washington, DC Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) will introduce the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 in the House and Senate. This bipartisan legislation will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers. Both the Chairwoman (Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen) and ranking member (Rep. Howard Berman CA-28) of the House Foreign Relations Committee are co-sponsors of the bill. The time has come to stand up and protect Americas angels abroad, said Poe. Peace Corps volunteers are ambassadors of the United States who spend their lives helping others who are less fortunate all over the world. These precious people are dedicated to taking care of others; now it is time to make sure that they are taken care of. The United States must act now to protect these young volunteers and respond to the needs of victims of violent crime no matter where they are in the world. I am hopeful that this legislation will facilitate important and immediate changes in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution.Over the last ten years, volunteers in the Peace Corps have suffered an average of 22 rapes and 267 assaults each year. Right now, new volunteers are not trained on sexual assault issues and are often placed in dangerous situations. The agencys in-country post-incident response often fails to meet victims needs. When volunteers return to the United States, they are confronted with hostile, rather than supportive treatment. There is so much bureaucratic red-tape that some of the victims are never able to get through it all and as a result, they do not receive the long-term medical and mental health care that they need and deserve. This legislation will amend the Peace Corps Act to require sexual assault risk-reduction and response training, the development of sexual assault protocol and guidelines, the establishment of victim advocates and the establishment of a Sexual Assault Advisory Council.Co-sponsors of the House bill include: Rep. Howard Berman (CA-28); Rep. Illeana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18); Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46); Rep. Jim Costa (CA-20); Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-05); Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17); Rep. Gerald Connolly (VA-11); Rep. Eni Faleomavaega (AS) Rep. Ann Marie Buerkle (NY-25); Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-17); Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-25); Rep. Michael E. Capuano (MA-08) and Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-12).Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Isakson serves on the Subcommittee on African Affairs on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
06.23.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) will introduce the Kate Puzey Peace Corps Volunteer Protection Act of 2011 in the House and Senate. This bipartisan legislation will provide better security and protection measures for Peace Corps volunteers. Both the Chairwoman (Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen) and ranking member (Rep. Howard Berman) of the House Foreign Relations Committee are co-sponsors of the bill. The time has come to stand up and protect Americas angels abroad, said Poe. Peace Corps volunteers are ambassadors of the United States who spend their lives helping others who are less fortunate all over the world. These precious people are dedicated to taking care of others; now it is time to make sure that they are taken care of. The United States must act now to protect these young volunteers and respond to the needs of victims of violent crime no matter where they are in the world. I am hopeful that this legislation will facilitate important and immediate changes in the Peace Corps to make it an even better institution. Over the last ten years, volunteers in the Peace Corps have suffered an average of 22 rapes and 267 assaults each year. Right now, new volunteers are not trained on sexual assault issues and are often placed in dangerous situations. The agencys in-country post-incident response often fails to meet victims needs. When volunteers return to the United States, they are confronted with hostile, rather than supportive treatment. There is so much bureaucratic red-tape that some of the victims are never able to get through it all and as a result, they do not receive the long-term medical and mental health care that they need and deserve. This legislation will amend the Peace Corps Act to require sexual assault risk-reduction and response training, the development of sexual assault protocol and guidelines, the establishment of victim advocates and the establishment of a Sexual Assault Advisory Council.Co-sponsors of the House bill include: Rep. Howard Berman (CA-28); Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-18); Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46); Rep. Jim Costa (CA-20); Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-05); Rep. Sam Farr (CA-17); Rep. Gerald Connolly (VA-11); Rep. Eni Faleomavaega (AS) Rep. Ann Marie Buerkle (NY-25); Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-17); Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-25); Rep. Michael E. Capuano (MA-08) and Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-12).Poe serves on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is co-founder of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Isakson serves on the Subcommittee on African Affairs on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) has filed H.R. 2199, the Deport Convicted Foreign Criminals Act, to prohibit the issuance of diplomatic visas to people from any countries that deny or unreasonably delay the repatriation of a national ordered removed from the United States. Under current law, when an alien commits a serious crime in the United States he or she must be repatriated back to their country of origin. However, in many cases the home countries either delay or refuse to accept and repatriate their nationals who have been issued removal orders by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). This is one aspect of Border Security and National Security that has unfortunately slipped through the cracks, said Poe. We give convicted foreign criminals a get-out-of-jail-free card to live in the United States because we cannot permanently detain them and their countries of origin refuse to take them back. It is time that we offer a proper incentive to these uncooperative nations who freely take our money, and turn around and disrespect our laws. We should not be issuing visas to diplomats of other nations that refuse to cooperate with our government. Keeping their criminals here is endangering our citizens. The bill has 10 original co-sponsors: Rep. Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (GA-3), Rep. Renee Ellmers (NC-2), Rep. Joe Pitts (PA-16), Rep. Trent Franks (AZ-2), Rep. Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Rep. Tom Rooney (FL-16), Rep. Steve King (IA-5), Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17) and Rep. Mike Pence (IN-6). Top 10 List of Offenders: Country # of Criminals Remaining in the United States CUBA 49,966 CHINA 35,230 INDIA 11,773 JAMAICA 9,699 PAKISTAN 7,337 SOMALIA 4,771 IRAN 3,702 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 3,112 BANGLADESH 2,615 *Source: United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
06.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) continues to offer his full support to the TransCanada Gulf Coast Expansion Project (Keystone XL Pipeline) that is expected to create thousands of jobs in Southeast Texas. Today, the House Energy and Power Subcommittee approved legislation that would require the Administration to speed up its decision on the permit application for the Keystone XL Pipeline. Congressman Poe is a cosponsor of this bill and has repeatedly called on the Administration to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline. It is time for the Administration to quit stalling and make a decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline project. The facts are plain and simple: we should end our dependence on foreign dictators and get our oil from our stable neighbor, Canada. The country needs oil and it needs jobs. This project would provide both, including thousands of jobs in Southeast Texas where the Pipeline would end. The oil refined in this Pipeline will provide the United States with a reliable and affordable source of energy for many years to come. Failure to grant this permit would be yet another example of the Administration holding our own domestic production hostage. Enough is enough. Congressman Poe has been a supporter of the Keystone XL Pipeline project from the beginning. He sent a letter to Secretary Hilary Clinton stating his support for the project and requests an update on the permitting status. The letter additionally states: This project is vitally important to the energy security of the United States, and I encourage you to approve the permit without further delay. In addition, Poe also joined 35 members of Congress on a delegation letter to Secretary Clinton urging the Department of State to move forward with the permitting process for the Pipeline project as planned. In a letter to Gary G. Mar, QC, Minister-Counselor of Alberta, Canada, Congressman Poe again offered his full support: This project will be extremely important to the 2nd Congressional District of Texas, as it is home to over 23% of the refining capacity in the United States. The proposed Keystone Gulf Coast Expansion Project is an approximate 1,661-mile, 36-inch crude oil pipeline that would begin at Hardisty, Alberta and extend southeast through Saskatchewan, Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska. It would incorporate the 298-mile portion of the Keystone Pipeline through Nebraska and Kansas to serve markets at Cushing, Oklahoma before continuing through Oklahoma to a delivery point near existing terminals in Nederland, Texas to serve the Port Arthur, Texas marketplace. ###
06.10.2011	Today, Congressman Poe visited Iraq to visit U.S. troops and meet with Iraqi officials. Congressman Poe and other Members of Congress attempted to visit Camp Ashraf where they were turned away by the Iraqi government. Congressman Poe issued the following statement in response: I am deeply disappointed that Members of Congress were denied access to Camp Ashraf by the Iraqi government. Earlier in the day, we had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Al-Maliki for nearly two hours and heard his candid position on this complex issue. These discussions were important and productive. However, it was also important to be able to hear the position of the residents of Camp Ashraf in order to get a fair assessment from both sides of what really occurred that day. We were not allowed to hear their side of the story. It is unacceptable for the Government of Iraq to continue to silence the Iranian freedom fighters at Camp Ashraf.On April 8, 2011, 2500 Iraqi forces attacked unarmed Iranian dissidents in Camp Ashraf. 35 people were killed and hundreds were wounded in these attacks. The international community has not been allowed access to the Camp. Members of the European Parliament were also denied access to Camp Ashraf when they visited Iraq at the end of April.
06.01.2011	Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act of 2012 (H.R. 2017) offered by Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Jason Altmire (D-PA). The amendment transfers $10 million to the Border Security, Fencing, Infrastructure and Technology account in order to improve the public safety of residents of the rural areas of the United States near the border with Mexico by enhancing access to mobile communications. Congressman Poe first became involved in this issue after Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) invited him to the border to see the effect of the lack of wireless communications in this area firsthand. This is a Homeland Security issue. The inability of the U.S. Government to secure the international border with Mexico creates public safety hazards for residents of border areas and the law enforcement agents who patrol them, said Poe. Many border areas are rural and lack wireless communications capabilities like cellular phone service, exacerbating public safety concern. If the Federal Government is not going to protect its citizens who live in fear each day on the border, the least it can do is give people the resources they need to communicate.Cell phone dead zones are so common along the border that ranchers in Arizona and Texas rely on short wave radios to communicate and call for help. On March 27, 2010, Arizona Rancher Robert Krentz was murdered 20 miles north of the border in an isolated area. The lack of communications capability made Krentz more vulnerable than he would have been otherwise and complicated the search for the assailant. His wife believes that he was in a cell phone dead zone where he was killed and that he was trying to call for help at the time.Congressman Poe has been a leading advocate in Washington to secure the U.S.-Mexico border. For a list of sponsored and cosponsored legislation related to border security, please click here. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years. Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe serves on the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. ###
05.17.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMay 17, 2011 Recent reports of Pakistans war profiteering are yet another reason why we cannot treat them as a trustworthy ally. Pakistan has allegedly submitted unsubstantiated and exaggerated claims about their efforts in the war on terror in order to get more money from the United States. The United States has denied over 40% of those claims in recent years. This highlights the growing mistrust that exists between our nations. In the midst of tensions with the United States, Pakistan hails China as their best friend. They play both sides and sell out to the highest bidder. The United States must realize that to Pakistan, we are only an ATM and it is time to shut off the machine until we know whose side Pakistan is on.
05.03.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will introduce the Pakistan Foreign Aid Accountability Act. This legislation will prohibit any foreign aid from being sent to Pakistan until it can demonstrate that it had no knowledge of Osama Bin Ladens whereabouts. This legislation would require the State Department to certify to Congress that Pakistan was not providing a sanctuary for the worlds most wanted terrorist. Pakistan has a lot of explaining to do. It seems unimaginable that Osama Bin Laden was living 1,000 yards away from a military base in a million dollar mansion built especially for him and no one in the Pakistani government knew about it. I dont buy it, said Rep. Poe. Congress has already appropriated $3 billion to Pakistan for this year. Unless the State Department can certify to Congress that Pakistan was not harboring Americas number one enemy, Pakistan should not receive one more cent of American aid. This is exactly why we need to reevaluate the foreign aid that we send to countries that do not have Americas best interest in mind. In March, Congressman Poe introduced the Foreign Aid Accountability Act (H. Res 173), which would amend the rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of any bill or joint resolution that appropriates foreign assistance for more than one country. It would change the rules so that members of Congress vote on each countryone at a time. Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs and Judiciary Committees. He is the vice chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations as well as the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. Congressman Poe also serves on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
05.02.2011	The long arm of American justice has found the Pawn of Satan. The father of Al Qaeda, the leader of terrorists, has met his maker. Osama Bin Laden was the emblem of all of the evil and hatred that exists in the world.The men and women of our Armed Forces and intelligence community are to be commended for their persistent dedication to finding and eliminating this monster from the earth. This news brings some comfort to the families of the thousands of people who died in the attacks on September 11th and those who have died in the War on Terror. Bin Ladens death is a decisive victory for America. While we celebrate this momentous event, we must remember that there are more evil-doers in the world who want to continue his crusade of hate and murder. Hopefully those people have heard our message loud and clear today: If you attack America, justice will be done. Because justice is what we do in the USA. And thats just the way it is.
04.29.2011	HOUSTON, TEXAS Today, Congressional EPA Task Force members Rep. Joe Barton (TX-6), Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-8) will visit the Houston Ship Channel to learn about the latest efforts to improve the environment and air quality in the Houston area. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) will provide demonstrations of several pieces of high tech, mobile air quality testing equipment being used to track and measure the progress of improving air quality in Texas. Members will also be briefed by industry leaders to learn more about how EPA regulations have destroyed jobs and business in Texas. If you listen to folks that dont think a lot about Texas you would think that our air quality is going downhill, but from 2000 to 2010 it has actually improved and this is while we added 4 million new residents and created more jobs than any other state in the union, said Rep. Joe Barton. Im not a climatologist, but I can read election results and it looks to me like the Obama Administration has decided to be punitive toward our state the biggest Republican State and they are doing it by picking on our successful flexible air quality permitting process.Rep. Pete Olson said, "Texas is in the crosshairs of a radical EPA that refuses to acknowledge the fact that our state has been a national leader in increasing energy production and reducing pollution. Yet, the EPA has repeatedly usurped state authority and continues to push damaging policies that will destroy jobs and hurt an already weak economy without improving air quality. My colleagues and I will continue to demand accountability and transparency and fight EPA policies that hurt our economy."The EPA is punishing Texas for not giving in to their demands. Instead of making an example out of Texas, perhaps the EPA should use Texas as an example, said Rep. Ted Poe. Texas has simultaneously improved its environment and economy. Our state is dedicated to finding cleaner energy alternatives, but we also know that we need to utilize our known sources of energy effectively and safely. "Obama Administration officials keep chanting they are all about jobs, but their regulators continue to take actions that put Americans out of work, said Rep. Kevin Brady. From drilling moratoria to global warming rules, this administration's policies are holding our economy back. The EPA is currently pushing nearly 30 major new rules and over 170 other actions, but what they won't do is consider the impact their reams of rules have on our workers and their families. The EPA needs to Stop Messing with Texas." The Congressional EPA Task Force is made up of state and federal officials, who are on the front lines of protecting Texas from the job-destroying over-regulation of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The group plans on discussing what has been going on legally and legislatively in Washington and Austin. The task force will also outline strategies moving forward that will protect Texas environment while at the same time promote economic growth.
04.14.2011	Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22) were joined by other members of the Texas Delegation in sending a letter to NASA Administrator Charles Bolden requesting an explanation for why he is sending a retired shuttle orbiter to New York City instead of the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. On Tuesday, NASA announced that it will send retired shuttle orbiters to New York, California, Florida and Virginia. Houston, the center of space exploration, was denied a shuttle. This letter requests answers to pointed questions to figure out the logic behind the decision. The first word spoken on the moon landing was Houston, not New York City, said Rep. Poe. NASA and the Johnson Space center have been the home base for space exploration for decades. It defies logic for a shuttle to go to New York City, a place with no connection to NASA. Its like putting the Statue of Liberty in Omaha. This was a politically driven decision, not one based on facts and history. This is disrespectful to Houston, the state of Texas and the Johnson Space Center family. Texas needs an explanation from the Administration. "No city in the world deserves a shuttle more than Houston, certainly not New York. As much as the Administration may deny it, the smell of politics permeates this decision," Rep. Olson said. "So many of my House colleagues from across the country have reiterated that point since the announcement. NASA never established defined criteria, likely because they knew Houston would meet every criteria with flying colors. Houston deserves answers to how this decision was made. Administrator Bolden has some explaining to do."Olson and Poe were joined by other members of the Texas delegation including: Rep. Ralph Hall, Rep. Michael Burgess, Rep. Joe Barton, Rep. Pete Sessions, Rep. Randy Neugebauer, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. John Carter, Rep. John Culberson, Rep. Kevin Brady, Rep. Gene Green, Rep. Ron Paul, Rep. Michael McCaul, Rep. Lamar Smith, Rep. Louie Gohmert and Rep. Blake Farenthold.FULL TEXT OF THE LETTER Dear Administrator Charles Bolden, Like many other Texans, we were shocked by your announcement yesterday that the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, the center for human spaceflight research and flight control for NASA, was not chosen to be the permanent home to one of the retired Space Shuttle Orbiters. As you know, the Johnson Space Centers Mission Control Center has been the operational center of every US human space mission since June 1965. The men and women who work at mission control have supported every single shuttle mission since the very first mission in 1981. We can find no logical explanation for this decision, and request that you explain the rationale behind the decision to Congress, the people of Houston, and the American taxpayer.1. What factors did you use in making your decision?2. For what specific reasons was the Intrepid Sea, Air, and Space Museum in New York City chosen?3. Are there any historical connections between NASA and the Intrepid Sea, Air, and Space Museum? Are there any historical connections between NASA and New York City in general?4. Exactly how much does NASA anticipate spending to move the Enterprise from its current location in Virginia to the Intrepid Museum? Specifically, what funds will NASA use to pay for this move? 5. How does NASA physically plan to move the Enterprise to pier 86 in New York City?6. Considering that the Intrepid Museum is located only 224 miles from the Smithsonian Udvar-Hazy Center in Virginia, where the Shuttle Discovery will be displayed, doesnt it make geographic sense to have the Enterprise more centrally located in the country? As it stands now, there are three locations on the east coast. Wouldnt a more central location ensure that the highest number of Americans would be able to visit? It is our hope that politics did not play a role in this historic decision. If there is no rational explanation based on definable factors for the choice of the Intrepid museum in New York City, and that the transfer of the Enterprise to that location will cost significantly more than a transfer to the Johnson Space Center in Houston, we will do everything in our power in Congress, including legislation to prevent funding of the transfer, to stop this wasteful decision.
04.13.2011	Reps. Maloney and Poe introduce bipartisan bill to reduce rape kit backlog--Bill allocates a portion of existing funding under Debbie Smith Act to audit local rape kit backlogs, hire staff, and establish a national public database of DNA results--WASHINGTON, DC Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Registry (SAFER) Act, which aims to reduce rape kit DNA backlogs nationwide by allocating existing program funds for incentives to local jurisdictions to audit rape kits awaiting processing, the hiring and/or training of staff to handle the backlog, and establishing a national database of every individual rape kit result. It also requires the Attorney General to report on best practices for testing and using DNA evidence in criminal investigations of sexual assault.Ongoing reports of backlogs in rape kit DNA processing require that we do more to help localities get the job done, Rep. Maloney said. Fortunately there is substantial funding available under the Debbie Smith Act which covers all DNA processing; this bill allocates a portion of that budget to specifically address the rape kit backlog in too many crime labs, and help get rapists off the street that much faster.In addition to funding, the creation of a web database will provide a public, easily-trackable source of information about where the backlogs exist and bring the power of web transparency to local law enforcement, Maloney said. Rape kits are sitting on shelves in precincts across the country while rapists walk free, Rep. Poe said. We know there is a problem with rape kit backlogs, we just dont know the extent of this problem. The SAFER Act gives localities the ability to audit their backlog and bring transparency and accountability to the testing process through the creation of a national online rape kit registry. It will inform victims, law enforcement and the public about the extent of the backlog throughout the country. It is my hope that the SAFER Act will bring to light the necessity of testing rape kits as quickly as possible in order to bring swift justice to violent criminals. Victims of violent crime should not be left in the dark about the status of their case and have to live in fear while the perpetrators go about their everyday lives.The SAFER Act is the vital next step in our efforts to eliminate the backlog of untested DNA evidence. This bill will help us shine a light on the remaining backlog, and give victims access to the status of their forensic evidence. Ultimately, it will lead to testing more DNA evidence and taking more rapists off our streets," said Scott Berkowitz, president and founder of RAINN. It will also save taxpayers money, by helping the Justice Department more efficiently solve the testing backlog. Its no surprise that the lead sponsors of the SAFER Act are two people who often lead Congressional efforts to fight sexual violence and assist victims: Rep. Carolyn Maloney, who authored the Debbie Smith Act and Rep. Ted Poe, founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus.##Background: Rep. Maloney authored legislation, the Debbie Smith Act, which passed as part of the Justice for All Act of 2004, authorizing the necessary funding to start processing the national DNA backlog through the creation of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program. Despite Congress appropriating hundreds of millions of dollars since 2005 under Debbie Smith, local backlogs persist. This legislation would create a new purpose under existing law to help reduce the backlogs in both law enforcement and crime labs and give victims a way to track the progress of the processing of the DNA sample related to their case.
04.08.2011	Update on Potential Government Shutdown: The House and Senate continue to negotiate plans to prevent a lapse in appropriations (or a government shutdown). I remain committed to supporting a budget that significantly cuts Washingtons out-of-control spending and reverses the uncertain environment that currently exists for American workers and job creators. On Thursday, April 7, I voted to support legislation that would fund the military through the remainder of the year. The failure of the President and the Senate to fund our military is inexcusable while our country is engaged in three wars.Please refer below to a list of commonly asked questions regarding a government shutdown. Please note that the Executive Branch determines which Executive Branch operations and programs are carried out during a government shutdown. My office will continue to update the information and guidance as further information becomes available from the Executive Branch. Veterans: Military:International Affairs: Benefits: Federal Services: Administration:Law Enforcement and Federal Assistance: Travel: Federal Projects and Operations: Miscellaneous: The above information is subject to change. We will do our up-most best to keep this information updated and timely. If you need any further assistance or have any other questions please call one of my offices. God and TexasTED POEMember of Congress * Please note that the Executive Branch determines which Executive Branch activities are carried out during a government shutdown. My office will continue to update the information and guidance as further information becomes available from the Executive Branch.
04.08.2011	In response to the massacre at Camp Ashraf, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) today issued the following statement:I am deeply saddened and outraged by the massacre that occurred today at Camp Ashraf. The Iraqi government has broken their promise to protect the human rights of the Iranians living at Camp Ashraf. The United States must not tolerate these crimes against humanity. Fifty-four of my colleagues have joined me on my resolution urging the Secretary of State to immediately remove MEK from the Foreign Terrorist Organization list. The Administration needs to finally take a decisive stance on this matter and stand up for the rights of the MEK before more innocent lives are lost.Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Subcommittee on Terrorism. Congressman Poe sponsored H.Res.60 which urges the Secretary of State to remove the Peoples Mojahedin Organization of Iran from the FTO list. ###
04.05.2011	Congressional Victims Rights Caucus Holds Annual Award CeremonyVRC Co-Chairs Reps. Poe & Costa Honor Victim Advocates WASHINGTON, DC Co-Chairs Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) will join members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus to honor this years outstanding individuals that have given of their time and service to helping victims. WHEN: Wednesday, April 6, 2011 6:00 8:00pm EST WHERE: 122 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC The 2011 Victims Rights Caucus Recipients: Eva Murillo Unsung Hero AwardHelga Luest, Founder/President & CEO, Witness Justice Helga Luest serves as the Founder, President and CEO of Witness Justice, a national non-profit organization that addresses the gaps in programs that survivors rely on to seek justice and experience healing. She promotes the right to live trauma free following acts of violence. Her knowledge of trauma and its direct impact on the well being of the individual is the core of her advocacy work. Helga Luest exemplifies the Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award as she has used her experiences as a crime victim and a survivor to promote public awareness, public education and policy development. Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim AdvocacyPam Kallsen, Executive Director, The Marjaree Mason Center Pam Kallsen has presided over the Marjaree Mason Center in Fresno, CA during a time of great need and great growth. As the preeminent domestic violence shelter in Californias Central Valley, Marjaree Mason has served hundreds of clients, going beyond traditional services and providing legal representation, hotline services, and counseling sessions. Earlier this year, Pam Kallsen was instrumental in securing city approval and leveraging private funding for a new Marjaree Mason extension facility in adjacent Clovis, CA. Successfully launching self-sufficiency programs, building relationships with the community she serves, and weathering turbulent economic downturn, Pam Kallsens leadership of the Marjaree Mason Center exemplifies the spirit of the Ed Stout Memorial for Outstanding Victim Advocacy. Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim AdvocacyMary Ellen Stone, Executive Director, King County Sexual Assault Resource Center Mary Ellen Stone has served as Executive Director of the King County Sexual Assault Resource Center (KCSARC) since 1979. Through her vision and passion she has helped transform the legal and political landscape of sexual assault violence in Washington State and throughout the nation. Under the leadership of Mary Ellen, KCSARC has grown to be the largest sexual assault victims service organization in the state; making a positive difference in the lives of thousands of children, women, men, parents and families who previously had nowhere to turn when their lives were affected by sexual assault. Mary Ellen was involved with some of the first rape crisis centers in the country dating back to the early 1970s when very little was available to victims and victims could not even talk about their abuse. Mary Ellen committed her life to helping victims of sexual assault find their voices again after traumatic crimes. Lois Haight Award for Excellence and InnovationSusan Smith Howley, Director of Public Policy, National Center for Victims of Crime Susan Howley has devoted the past 20 years to the development and implementation of major crime victim related public policy initiatives at the local, state and national levels. Susan has worked for the National Center for Victims of Crime on critical policy positions since 1991 and has served as the Centers Director of Public Policy. She has gained a national reputation for substantive, non-partisan advocacy for crime victims rights and services. Advocates from around the country seek her expertise by conducting extensive training of criminal justice officials and state legislators on the importance of enforcing victims rights laws. In addition to bringing her well-respected national perspective to state lawmakers and advocates, Susan has played important roles drafting and implementing in many pieces of federal victim-related legislation and is frequently requested to provide testimony to Federal and state legislative committees on a variety of crime victim issues. Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award-Jessica Smochek, Peace Corp Volunteer Jessica Smochek took her own experience being victimized while serving in the Peace Corps to advocate for changes in the organizations response to victims and their families. She has engaged the national media, Congress, victims organizations throughout the country, and other Peace Corp victims and their families to call for a change in the Peace Corps response to victims. With her help, this issue has garnered wide attention with a 20/20 special on the issue as well as an upcoming Congressional hearing. She has pushed the issue to the forefront, with the help of other victims and families, forcing the Peace Corp to respond and reevaluate their practices. Allied Professional AwardNilda Valmores, Executive Director, My Sisters House Nilda Valmores is the Executive Director of My Sisters House: a Northern California domestic violence shelter which focuses on the needs of immigrant Asian/Pacific Islander women and children. Through Nildas work, My Sisters House and the larger issue of domestic violence facing immigrant women has received a wide variety of local media coverage. In 2010, the shelter was one of 46 national sites to receive OVW funds to provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services. It also currently is working with Sacramentos Rescue and Restore Coalition on Human Trafficking initiatives. Ms. Valmores is the co-facilitator of the Sacramento Domestic Violence Prevention Collaborative, a group of 20+ members of local government agencies, non-profits, and law enforcement officials and is the sole representative of a domestic violence shelter on a Statewide Asian/Pacific Mental Health Disparities Workgroup.
03.31.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced H.R. 1277, the Southern Borderlands Public Safety Communications Act, at the request of the office of Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords.This bill continues our efforts to enhance security on the border region by improving communications," said Poe. It was very obvious to me during my recent visit to Southern Arizona that there are too many areas where cell phones simply do not work. We have the same problem in parts of Texas. Congresswoman Giffords and I believe that if the Federal Government is not going to protect its citizens who live in fear each day on the border, the least it can do is give them the resources to call for help if they are in danger.This legislation is the result of a problem that Congresswoman Giffords has been working to address since the March 2010 murder of one of her constituents, rancher Rob Krentz. It authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to make grants available for public-private partnerships that finance equipment and infrastructure to improve the public safety of persons who are residents of rural areas of the United States-Mexico border by enhancing access to mobile communications. It has been reported that Rob Krentz was in an area with no cell phone service when he was attacked by suspected drug smugglers. His killer remains at large.This bill will provide people in remote areas in this region a way to call for help, said Poe, who worked with Giffords last year on a resolution to deploy National Guard troops to the U.S-Mexico border.Gary Thrasher, a rancher in Arizona expressed strong support for this bill: Congresswoman Giffords office and Congressman Poe are showing that we all can work together to improve border security, said Thrasher. Every member of Congress who likes to talk tough about border security should support this bill. It represents a practical solution to a real problem that ranchers and rural residents have had to deal with for far too long.Giffords represents Arizonas 8th Congressional District in the southeastern corner of the state. The district has a 114-mile border with Mexico and has been particularly hard hit by the flow of illegal drugs and immigrants into the United States.Giffords has been a champion of tougher border security since she took office in January 2007. More information is available on her website: http://giffords.house.gov. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
03.21.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the current situation in Libya. "Moammar Gadhafi is an oppressive dictator who has murdered innocent Americans in the past. Now he is at war with his own people. However, it still remains unclear what is at stake for the United States in Libya and why this justified the President's decision to engage our country in a Third War.The American people and Congress need to know what is our mission, who is in charge of that mission and how long that will take.""The Middle East is a tinderbox--there is instability and unrest all over the region. The Administration has yet to clearly define why it has chosen to get militarily involved in Libya.President Obama must communicate to the American people what is his overall strategy in the Middle East. The American people and Congress need to know how entering a war in Libya directly impacts our national security and why it is justified."###
03.16.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Foreign Aid Accountability Act. This bill will amend the rules of the House of Representatives to prohibit the consideration of any bill or joint resolution that appropriates foreign assistance for more than one country. It will change the rules so that members of Congress vote on each country--one at a time. It is time to re-evaluate foreign aid. The United States sends taxpayer money to 150 of 192 countries in the world. The American people would be shocked to know some of the places where we send their money. Our country simply cannot afford to be shelling out taxpayer money to nations when it is not in the best interest of the United States. We have to take care of America before we send American money all over the world. In typical Washington fashion, our foreign aid is voted on all at once in one massive blanket bill. We need to bring transparency and accountability to the process of approving foreign aid. This bill is a commitment to the American people that we will spend their money wisely and only assist nations where there is a return on our investment. Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is the Vice Chair of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov.###
03.09.2011	This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) reintroduced the Offshore Lease Fairness Act that would mandate that 50 percent of offshore leasing revenue from new leases go to the coastal state adjacent to the oil lease. Currently, Gulf Coast states only receive between 27 percent 37.5 percent of lease revenue. At times, it may even be less.The second highest single source of federal revenue each year comes from offshore drilling at $6 billion per year, said Poe. Those of us along the Gulf Coast have to bear the economic brunt of the oil spill and the devastating moratorium; it is time that we also receive our fair share of the revenues to help alleviate our local economies.The Offshore Lease Fairness Act does not mandate that coastal states spend the money on shoreline mitigation projects or anything else, the money would go directly to the general fund of coastal states, and they could spend at their discretion. This money could be spent on transportation, education, shoreline mitigation, or any other purpose. The bill aims to empower states to address their individual needs by allowing them to benefit from their own national resources.H.R. 939 The Offshore Lease Fairness Act:(1) increase the revenue shared with States under the OCS Lands Act (dealing with the "8(g) zone", the zone that extends three miles from the coast line) to 50 percent for leases entered into after enactment of this Act; and(2) expand the applicability of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (GOMESA) to new leases for all lands on the Outer Continental Shelf (as opposed to only lands in the Gulf of Mexico), and increase the revenue shared with states under that Act to 50 percent for leases entered into after enactment of this Act, without the accompanying restrictions GOMESA puts on the way states may spend that 50 percent (e.g., on coastal maintenance, etc.).###
03.08.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act to establish a commission to ensure a suitable observance of the 100th Anniversary of World War I. This bill will also designate the Washington, DC World War I Memorial on the National Mall as the National World War I Memorial. The Buckles Bill will also designate the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City as the World War I Museum in Kansas City, Missouri. The memorial will be paid for with donations. It was the wish of Corporal Frank Buckles to see a National World War I Memorial in Washington, DC, said Poe. There is a memorial to honor ever single American hero of World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. Nearly five million American GIs fought in the War to End All Wars. I hope we do the honorable thing and salute Corporal Buckles and the rest of the Doughboys who fought over there.On February 28th, Congressman Poe also filed a resolution to allow the late Frank Buckles to lie in honor in the rotunda of the United States Capitol. ###
03.04.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in support for his resolution to allow the late Frank Buckles, the last United States veteran of the First World War, to lie in honor in the rotunda of the United States Capitol.Frank Buckles is the last one; the last American Doughboy, said Poe. Honoring him is our chance to say thank you to the last of a generation. It is the final legacy of those who fought over there. Corporal Frank Buckles of the United States Army should have a full military burial at Arlington Cemetery and lie in honor in the United States Capitol. As we come to the end of this chapter in history and the bugles sound Taps for the lone survivor, I hope that we do the honorable thing,On February 28, 2011, Congressman Poe filed a resolution in the House of Representatives to allow the late Frank Buckles, the last United States veteran of the First World War, to lie in honor in the rotunda of the Capitol.Additionally, Poe is the sponsor of the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act. The bill would refurbish and expand the local WWI Memorial on the National Mall for the soldiers of the District of Columbia. Poe has long championed Mr. Buckles efforts to see that the nearly five million American GIs that fought in the War to End All Wars had a place among the memorials that honor our nations heroes.Congressman Poe was joined by Mr. Buckles in Washington, DC in September 2008 to announce the bill together.The Rotunda of the United States Capitol is considered the most suitable place for the nation to pay final tribute to its most eminent citizens by having their remains lie in state or in honor. It is the policy of the Architect of the Capitol to only allow elected officials to lie in state. To be granted permission to lie in honor must either be authorized by a congressional resolution or approved by the congressional leadership.
03.03.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson stay of his ruling declaring the health care reform law unconstitutional, giving the Obama administration seven days to file an appeal:Today, Judge Vinson has once again made it perfectly clear that there is no question in his mind that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional and a speedy resolution is in the best interest of the court and the people. I couldnt agree more. This case needs to be heard by the Supreme Court as soon as possible so that we can finally get back to the drawing board and find a solution that protects the constitutional rights of the American people.As a former judge, Congressman Poe has vigorously challenged the federal governments constitutional authority to enforce the individual mandate. In December of 2009, Congressman Poe filed H. Res. 959 expressing the sense that many members of Congress challenge the authority of the federal government to require by law that Americans purchase health insurance, or any goods or services.Congressman Poe is also the sponsor of H.R. 154, Defund the Individual Mandate Act, to prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandates requiring Americans to purchase insurance or pay a fine as defined in the recently passed Senate healthcare bill. The bill currently has 50 cosponsors. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on the Judiciary.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
02.28.2011	We have come to the end of a chapter in history. Yesterday, my friend Frank Buckles passed away at the age of 110. Frank was the last American Doughboy a national treasure.My thoughts and prayers are with the Buckles family and the countless people that had the honor to call him friend.Congressman Poe is the sponsor of the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act. The bill would refurbish and expand the local WWI Memorial on the National Mall for the soldiers of the District of Columbia. Poe has long championed Mr. Buckles efforts to see that the nearly five million American GIs that fought in the War to End All Wars had a place among the memorials that honor our nations heroes.
02.28.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed a resolution to allow the late Frank Buckles, the last United States veteran of the First World War, to lie in honor in the rotunda of the United States Capitol. Frank Buckles is the last one; the last American Doughboy, said Poe. Honoring him is our chance to say thank you to the last of a generation. It is the final legacy of those who fought over there. This is a special honor and as we come to the end of this chapter in history and the bugles sound Taps for the lone survivor, I hope that we do the honorable thing, continued Poe. Corporal Frank Buckles of the United States Army should have a full military burial at Arlington Cemetery and lie in honor in the United States Capitol.The Rotunda of the United States Capitol is considered the most suitable place for the nation to pay final tribute to its most eminent citizens by having their remains lie in state or in honor. It is the policy of the Architect of the Capitol to only allow elected officials to lie in state. To be granted permission to lie in honor must either be authorized by a congressional resolution or approved by the congressional leadership. Congressman Poe is the sponsor of the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act. The bill would refurbish and expand the local WWI Memorial on the National Mall for the soldiers of the District of Columbia. Poe has long championed Mr. Buckles efforts to see that the nearly five million American GIs that fought in the War to End All Wars had a place among the memorials that honor our nations heroes.
02.18.2011	This afternoon, I introduced an amendment to the Continuing Resolution that would prevent federal funds from being used by the Department of Justice to sue the State of Arizona for implementing its own immigration enforcement laws. At a time when our federal deficit is over $14 trillion dollars, it makes no sense for the United States government to spend money to sue one of its states for taking matters into their own hands to protect its citizens. The federal government does not enforce our nations existing immigration laws and the states have the duty to protect their citizens. Amendment # 199 was ruled out of order by the Parliamentarians in Congress for technicalities. I disagree with this ruling and will continue to fight for the rights of the southern Border States to protect their people just as the federal government should be protecting the people of this nation.
02.18.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted for the Emerson Amendment to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution (CR), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives. This important amendment is identical to the Poe Amendment offered in the Continued Resolution. The Emerson Amendment will prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandate requiring Americans to purchase health insurance. I am pleased that my colleagues supported Representative Emersons amendment which is identical to my own. This important amendment will protect the constitutional right of all Americans to have control over their own healthcare choices, said Poe. In addition to this amendment, Congressman Poe filed a stand-alone bill, the Defund the Individual Mandate Act, on the first day of the 112th Congress. Poe is also the cosponsor of Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act to fully repeal the sweeping government-run healthcare legislation. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
02.18.2011	Congressman Poe (R-TX) applauds his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives for their bipartisan passage of Amendment No. 466 to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution (CR). The Poe-Barton-Carter Amendment will eliminate funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement, administer or enforce any statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after January 1, 2011.I am pleased that my colleagues in the House have chosen to put a stop to the back-door attempts by the administration to bypass Congress and circumvent the will of the American people. The EPAs unnecessary plan to regulate greenhouse gases would have cost taxpayers millions of dollars and destroyed countless jobs in our energy sector, said Rep Ted Poe. The era of the EPA overstepping its authority by imposing over-burdensome and unnecessary regulations at the expense of American businesses is over. I thank my colleagues from Texas, Rep. Joe Barton and Rep. John Carter, for their continued support and co-sponsorship of this legislation.###
02.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Texas Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02), Joe Barton (TX-06) and Rep. John Carter (TX-31) introduced an amendment to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution (CR), to eliminate funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement, administer or enforce any statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after January 1, 2011.This amendment will put an end to any back-door attempt to go around Congress and circumvent the will of the people, said Rep. Ted Poe. Americans across the country have rejected this policy. And despite being rejected by Congress, the administration has defiantly ignored the will of the people, and the law, to further its own political agenda. It is absolutely necessary that Congress take immediate action to ensure that the EPA does not continue to run amuck and destroy industry across the board in our country.The Environmental Protection Agency and the Obama Administration have overstepped their bounds by enacting regulations that will put the American economy in a straight jacket, said Rep. Barton. Enough is enough. The economic warfare the EPA is waging on the American worker must be stopped. This amendment kills the regulatory overreach by preventing the EPA from using funding to regulate emissions of several gasses, including CO2. We arent repealing any air quality standards already in the Clean Air Act. Our goal is to take Washington bureaucrats out of the equation and lets Americas businesses get our economy get back on track by doing what they do best - create jobs.Rep. John Carter stated, "This pending greenhouse gas regulatorynightmareis working as a massive hiring roadblock to every business in America.There is no way the private sector can commit to major new investment in employees or infrastructure while the EPA considers carbon dioxide to be a pollutant and continues scheming on how to strap American businesses withyet unknown costs and red tape.This is further providing a very bad incentive to move production offshore, where the same businesses can operate without EPA interference,with no environmental restrictions, and at the cost of even existing U.S. jobs."###
02.15.2011	In response to the recent uprising in Iran, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement: The aftershocks of the Egyptian revolution are being felt throughout the Middle East. The hunger for freedom has gone viral and reenergized the movement for freedom in Iran. Yesterday, tens of thousands of people took to the streets of Iran to protest their oppressive government. Ironically, in recent weeks the Iranian government had falsely claimed to celebrate the revolution in Egypt. Today, they are resisting change in their own country through violently beating and arresting peaceful protestors. One nonviolent protestor was even shot to death."Members of the government of Iran publicly called for the execution of opposition leaders Mir Hossein Mousavi and Mahdi Karroubi for stirring up these protests. This rhetoric is deplorable and must not be tolerated by the international community. The people of Iran deserve the same chance as Egypt to seek freedom from their tyrannical regime.Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is the founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights caucus. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov. # # #
02.15.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed an amendment to H.R. 1, the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution (CR), to prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandate requiring Americans to purchase insurance or pay a fine. I support a full repeal of the healthcare bill. However, that process may be a lengthy one, said Poe. My amendment will ensure that no money is appropriated to enforce the unconstitutional mandate forcing Americans to purchase health insurance putting an end to it here and now. The Poe Amendment states: None of the funds made available by this Act may be appropriated to any agency for the implementation, enforcement, or administration of section 1501 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and the amendments made by such section, as amended.Recently, a Florida federal judge ruled that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional. In the case brought by 26 states, including the State of Texas, the National Federation of Independent Business, and two individuals, Judge Roger Vinson ruled that the individual mandate is not a constitutional exercise of Congress Commerce Clause power.Additionally, Judge Vinson struck down the entire law citing the lack of a severability clause, meaning that if one part of the law is found to be unconstitutional, the entire law is deemed unconstitutional.As I originally stated during the healthcare debate last year, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional, continued Poe. For the second time, a federal judge has ruled that the bill is not within the constitutional powers of the federal government. Americans have overwhelmingly rejected the philosophy that the federal government can do it better. Its time to stop the massive government expansion and focus on real reform not more government control.In addition to this amendment, Congressman Poe filed a stand-alone bill, the Defund the Individual Mandate Act, on the first day of the 112th Congress. Poe is also the cosponsor of Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act to fully repeal the sweeping government-run healthcare legislation. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
02.11.2011	After 30 years of living under the thumb of an oppressive dictator, the Egyptian people have freed themselves by coming together in peaceful but persistent protest. I hope oppressed people around the world look at Egypt and see that freedom is possible for anyone and that together, their voices can be heard. But this is just the first step: the United States must make it clear that it will not support a government, such as the Muslim Brotherhood, that continues the tyranny of the past.
02.08.2011	In response to the murder of American teenagers Carlos Mario Gonzalez Bermudez and Juan Carlos Echeverri, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement: The border with Mexico is a lawless warzone controlled by violent drug cartels, said Poe. Despite the continued loss of American life, the United States government refuses to admit that there is a war on our border. This violence is a lethal cancer and it is spreading quickly into the United States. The narco-terrorists do not recognize international lines. This is a matter of national security and it is the responsibility of the federal government to protect our border. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family of the two teenage boys." Carlos Mario Gonzalez Bermudez and Juan Carlos Echeverri were shot to death in the city of Ciudad Juarezjust two miles from El Paso, Texas. Ciudad Juarez is one of the most dangerous cities in the world, experiencing a fierce turf war between drug cartels. More than three thousand people were killed in Juarez in 2010, and three triple homicides occurred this past weekend alone. Rep. Ted Poe has introduced legislation that would require at the request of border governors to deploy 10,000 National Guard troops at the U.S-Mexico border. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Border Security; Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus; and recognized nationally as a leading advocate for border security. Prior to serving in Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.# # #
02.01.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement wishing Frank Woodruff Buckles a happy 110th birthday. Mr. Buckles is the last surviving American veteran from World War I:Happy birthday to our last American Doughboy. Today, my friend Frank Buckles turns 110 years old. I wish him the happiest of days and offer the gift of my commitment to carry on his legacy and all those that served alongside him in the Great World War by continuing his fight to see a WWI memorial built on the national mall in Washington, DC. He is the last of a generation a national treasure. We owe him, and all the doughboys before him, this honor. I hope that Frank can see his wish become a reality. Congressman Poe is the sponsor of the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act. The bill would refurbish and expand the local WWI Memorial on the National Mall for the soldiers of the District of Columbia. Poe has long championed Mr. Buckles efforts to see that the nearly five million American GIs that fought in the War to End All Wars had a place among the memorials that honor our nations heroes. In honor of Mr. Buckles birthday, supporters have announced the documentary film, Pershings Last Patriot: The story of Frank Woodruff Buckles, Americas Last Veteran of World War I. For more information on this film and Mr. Buckles, please visit the website: www.pershingslastpatriot.com. ###
01.31.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in reaction to a Florida federal judge ruling that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional. In the case brought by 26 states, including the State of Texas, the National Federation of Independent Business, and two individuals, Judge Roger Vinson ruled that the individual mandate is not a constitutional exercise of Congress Commerce Clause power.In addition, Judge Vinson struck down the entire law citing the lack of a severability clause, meaning that if one part of the law is found to be unconstitutional, the entire law is deemed unconstitutional."As I originally stated during the healthcare debate last year, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional, stated Poe. Today, for the second time, a federal judge has ruled that the bill is not within the constitutional powers of the federal government. In their haste to write this bill in the darkness of night, the authors failed to include a severability clause. As a result of this omission, the judge correctly struck down the law in its entirety.Like the constitution, Judge Vinson cited words spoken by James Madison they have stood the test of time: 'If men were angels, no government would be necessary. If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on government would be necessary. In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: you must first enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself.'"Today's ruling is further proof that this bill is not in the best interest of the American people and its time we get back to the drawing board."As a former judge, Congressman Poe has vigorously challenged the federal governments constitutional authority to enforce the individual mandate. In December of 2009, Congressman Poe filedH. Res. 959 expressing the sense that many members of Congress challenge the authority of the federal government to require by law that Americans purchase health insurance, or any goods or services.Congressman Poe is also the sponsor of H.R. 154, Defund the Individual Mandate Act, to prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandates requiring Americans to purchase insurance or pay a fine as defined in the recently passed Senate healthcare bill. The bill currently has 50 cosponsors.Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on the Judiciary.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
01.31.2011	Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement regarding the situation in Egypt:"Egypt is at a crucial moment in its history. The Egyptian people finally have an opportunity to bring freedom to their land. However, the radical Muslim Brotherhood and terrorists like it who have no desire for democracy must not be allowed to hijack this moment. President Mubarak should hold free and fair elections only with candidates who respect the rule of law and want liberty for their people. Dictators around the world ignore the voices of their people at their own peril."
01.26.2011	Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Peter Welch (VT-AL) on Wednesday hailed Wal-Mart Inc.s decision to withdraw its plan to build a superstore on the site of a Civil War battleground where thousands of Vermont and Texas troops perished.In a bipartisan effort, Poe and Welch have fought to protect Virginias Wilderness Battlefield since the company first proposed to develop within the boundaries of the battlefield. Like Gen. Robert E. Lee said at the Battle of the Wilderness, Texans always move them, said Poe. This time we had had help from the North from my colleague Rep. Peter Welch. Todays announcement is a victory for all Americans.Welch and Poe first wrote Wal-Mart CEO Mike Duke in February 2009, urging him to take action to preserve this vital piece of history. The Congressmen took to the House floor together in March to reiterate their opposition and toured the site in May to mark the 145th anniversary of the Battle of the Wilderness. While there, Welch and Poe visited monuments to the Vermont and Texas troops who perished during the battle.The Wilderness Battlefield is a sacred site for Vermonters, Texans and all Americans. The site marks the sacrifice of so many soldiers, whose memory we must cherish, Welch and Poe said in a joint statement. We appreciate Wal-Marts decision to build elsewhere and we applaud the leadership and advocacy of those who fought to preserve this important national landmark.The Battle of the Wilderness, fought in May 1864, was among the most significant battles of the Civil War. It marked the first time that legendary generals Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant faced each other in battle. When fighting ended, more than 29,000 Americans had been killed, wounded or captured. Arriving at the breaking point of the battle, Texas troops, led by Gen. James Longstreet, pushed back the Union front. From this effort, came Gen. Lees famous quote: Texans always move them. Although victorious, 60 percent of the Texans were killed in the historic battle. Nearly half of the 2,800 Vermonters who fought at that battle were killed, wounded or went missing.###
01.20.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement criticizing the decision to officially hoist the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) flag outside its office in Washington, DC:Why are we allowing the Palestinian flag to be raised in our nations capital? They haven't done anything to deserve this honor. This seemingly symbolic act is veiled in manipulative intent and sends the wrong message that we accept the creation of a Palestinian state without negotiations with Israel. Although Israel is under no obligation to redraw its lines, if any decisions are made they must be done through direct negotiations between the PLO and Israel. This is yet another move by the State Department to give a gift to the PLO and get nothing in return. At the very least, this gives credibility to a group ruled by terrorists. It's a slap in the face of our staunch ally Israel. When are we going to learn that rewarding our enemies and punishing our friends is a terrible strategy?"
01.13.2011	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the ruling by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia to allow the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to impose its greenhouse gas regulations in the State of Texas. Texas Gov. Rick Perry and other state officials challenged the federal governments authority to implement these regulations.The EPA is at war with Texas, said Poe. The federal government has overstepped their authority. Todays ruling violates the 10th Amendment, stated Poe. Texans and Americans across the country have rejected this policy. And despite being rejected by Congress, the administration has defiantly ignored the will of the people, and the law, to further its own political agenda.Countless studies have shown that this will not only jeopardize the energy industry in Texas, but will negatively affect the nations energy supply, economy and jobless numbers, continued Poe. More EPA control is not needed. It will not make for cleaner air only more expensive and unnecessary regulations.On the first day of the 112th Congress, Rep. Poe introduced the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act. This bill will prohibit federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases. This bill will put an end to any back-door attempt to go around Congress and circumvent the will of the people, said Poe. It is absolutely necessary that Congress take immediate action on this bill to ensure that the EPA does not continue to amuck and destroy industry across the board in our country.The taxacrats want to control every dollar spent on energy in America, continued Poe. They also want control over who can use it and how. Every person and business that uses energy will be taxed for the use of that energy. This scheme will bankrupt manufacturing businesses and cost American families and small businesses thousands of dollars a year in new taxes.H.R. 153 The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act:Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise available for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to implement or enforce A cap and trade program; or Any statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of one or more greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after January 1, 2011.
01.08.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement:"I cannot express my sadness over the recent shooting in Tucson. Gabby is not only a colleague, but a close friend. My prayers are with her family and the loved ones of those that needlessly lost their lives. As for the person that committed this heinous crime, I hope that justice is swift and punishment is harsh."
01.06.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed the National Guard Border Enforcement Act. This bill is identical to the legislation filed in the 111th Congress. The bill will authorize the Secretary of Defense to make 10,000 National Guard troops available upon request from a U.S. Governor. In addition, these troops will be paid for by the federal government and serve under the command of the requesting governor.Recent news reports indicate that the Department of Homeland Security will deploy National Guard troops to Afghanistan to help in securing the border with Pakistan. We protect the borders of other countries better than we protect our own, said Poe. The first duty of the federal government is to protect its people and that includes our homeland.In response to the federal governments failure to answer the repeated requests of Governor Perry and other border state governors to protect our international borders, the National Guard Border Enforcement Act will ensure that border state governors have the needed resources to protect their citizens from the ongoing border related violence. Texans are tired of the federal governments failure to secure our borders and enforce our laws, yet at the same time running roughshod over state governments when they try to enforce the law and protect their citizens, said Poe. The federal governments not our problem attitude is unacceptable and this legislation will require the Defense Department to do what they were created to do protect the people of this country and the dignity of our borders. Currently, the Department of Defense has only allocated 250 National Guard troops for entire 1,256 mile long Texas-Mexico border. Recently, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano indicated that the state of Texas would be forced to pay for any additional troops to enforce existing federal immigration laws along the international border. Numerous news accounts have reported on cross border gunfire coming into El Paso, Texas, hitting buildings and passenger vehicles traveling along US highways. In Arizona, the federal government is erecting signs to warn travelers that entire stretches of US highways are no longer safe for US citizens. Under the National Guard Border Enforcement Act, troops will be authorized to conduct: Armed vehicle and foot patrols of the U.S. southern border Interdiction of a vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other similar activities Search, seizure, and detention of suspects Construction of roads, fences, and vehicle barriers Search and rescue operations Intelligence gathering, surveillance, and reconnaissance Aviation supportAdditionally, the bill would allow the Secretary of Defense to authorize additional troops should operational control of the U.S. border not be achieved with the first 10,000 deployed.In addition to the National Guard Border Enforcement Act, Congressman Poe has been a leading advocate in Washington to secure our borders. Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Texas Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. ###
01.06.2011	The 112th Congress has just begun, and so have the attacks on the Environmental Protection Agency's ability to regulate greenhouse gases.Three Republican House members -- Marsha Blackburn (Tenn.), Shelley Moore Capito (W. Va.) and Ted Poe (Tex.) have each introduced separate bills aimed at blocking EPA from regulating carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act.The three measures hamstring the agency's authority in different ways: Blackburn's would "amend the Clean Air Act to provide that greenhouse gases are not subject to the Act," even though the Supreme Court ruled in 2007 that they are; Capito's would delay EPA from regulating carbon dioxide and methane for two years; and Poe's would prohibit any agency funding "to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases."While Capito's bill is the most modest of the bunch, the West Virginia lawmaker explained in a statement that she has introduced a more limited bill because she thinks it has enough votes to pass and block initiatives such as new EPA permitting requirements that now require major new greenhouse gas emitters to show how they would use the best available current technology to lower their carbon footprint."Time is of the essence," she said. "The Democrats failed to act in any way to stop the EPA from implementing new rules pertaining to greenhouse gas emissions on January 2, 2011.Without congressional action to say otherwise, the EPA will continue to dismantle energy and manufacturing industries through regulation."Franz Matzner, climate and air legislative director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group, decried the move. "It sure didn't take long for big polluters to show what money can buy," Matzner said in a statement. "Banning or delaying the EPA from issuing any health safeguards whatsoever against carbon dioxide pollution would be nothing less than a dream-come-true for industries that would put profits ahead of our health and too many House members seem willing to do just that. It would be irresponsible for lawmakers to abolish the EPA's ability to cut carbon pollution, leaving polluters free to dump into our air without limit."While one or more of these proposals may pass the House, it is unclear whether they can garner enough votes to pass the Senate. On Thursday Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.)--who kept her seat as well as her gavel despite last fall's GOP wave--issued a spirited defense of the EPA."EPA is following what the latest scientific research tells us about the threat posed by air pollution, including greenhouse gas pollution," Boxer said in her speech. "This committee will remain vigilant to ensure that politics and special interests do not interfere with the ability of the EPA and the states to act in accordance with the law to respond to what the scientists are telling us."EPA officials could not be reached for comment on the new bills.
01.06.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed H.R. 154, Defund the Individual Mandate Act, to prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandates requiring Americans to purchase insurance or pay a fine as defined in the recently passed Senate healthcare bill. The federal government has no authority to make us buy anything, whether thats health insurance or a box of doughnuts, said Poe. The American people still value the protections set forth in our Constitution and I will vigorously fight to ensure that this Congress and this administration adhere to the laws of this country. I support a full repeal of the healthcare bill. However, that process may be a lengthy one. As all appropriations bills originate in the House of Representatives, this legislation will ensure that Congress does not appropriate any money to implement these programs.In addition to this bill, Congressman Poe is the cosponsor of Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act to fully repeal the sweeping government-run healthcare legislation passed last year. Americans have overwhelmingly rejected the philosophy that the federal government can do it better. Its time to stop the massive government expansion and focus on real reform not more government control. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
01.06.2011	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was sworn in for a 4th term as the United States Representative for the Second Congressional District of Texas on Wednesday, Jan. 5.In the 112th Congress, Congressman Poe will remain committed to his pledge not to support any bill that raises taxes on the American people and continue to fight for limited government spending and reduce unnecessary federal regulations and interference in our businesses and personal lives.I am proud to continue to serve the 2nd District of Texas and represent the issues that matter most to southeast Texans, said Poe. The American people have been more engaged in our government over the past two years than in any other time in recent memory. It is time to restore our government to the people of this country. After all, its We the People.According to a statement from his office, Congressman Poe continues to be a leading advocate for increased border security and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. As a strong proponent of energy independence, Congressman Poe is an ardent supporter of increased domestic drilling, alternative energy and supports an all of the above approach to lessening our dependence on foreign crude oil and natural gas.As a former prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years, Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee; Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security; and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security.Congressman Poe also serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade and International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight Subcommittees; as well as founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in Congress.For more information on Congressman Poe and the services provided by the congressional district offices, please visit the website: http://poe.house.gov.
01.06.2011	Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act. This bill will prohibit federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases. The cap-and-trade national tax on energy consumption is the mother of all mandates, said Poe. Although the cap-and-tax legislation has not become law, the administration has indicated that it will implement this policy through new EPA regulations without Congress approval. The American public has overwhelmingly disapproved of this policy. This bill will put an end to any back-door attempt to go around Congress and circumvent the will of the people. The taxacrats want to control every dollar spent on energy in America, continued Poe. They also want control over who can use it and how. Every person and business that uses energy will be taxed for the use of that energy. This scheme will bankrupt manufacturing businesses and cost American families and small businesses thousands of dollars a year in new taxes.H.R. 153 The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act:Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise available for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to implement or enforce A cap and trade program; or Any statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of one or more greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after January 1, 2011. ###
01.04.2011	In Nogales, Arizona on the dusty hilltops west of U.S. Interstate 19, National Guardsmen with M-4 rifles peer down from camouflage tents and surveillance posts, so close to the border fence they can almost watch TV through the windows of Mexican homes on the other side.The troops are members of the Arizona National Guard and Arizona Air National Guard, sent by the Obama administration last summer amid heightened concerns about lawlessness and spillover drug violence along the border. Of the 1,200 Guardsmen deployed to the U.S.-Mexico divide, 560 are here in Arizona, where lawmakers pushed hard for a larger military deployment during a statewide crackdown on illegal immigration last year."We are extra eyes and ears," said Brig. Gen. Jose Salinas of the Arizona National Guard. "We're out in the open, trying to act as a deterrent, ready to respond to any kind of weird incident out there."Salinas said the one-year National Guard mission is a stopgap measure to give U.S. Customs and Border Protection time to hire more agents. But worsening cartel violence in Mexico and several high-profile killings on the U.S. side have raised calls for more National Guardsmen along the border, even though illegal immigration and crime in the region have declined.Border-state legislators from both parties - particularly following the Dec. 14 killing of a Border Patrol agent just north of Nogales - say they view the U.S. military presence as a long-term necessity, despite rules that mostly limit the Guardsmen to watching the fence line and prevent them from making arrests or seizing drugs."The border with Mexico is our third front, after Afghanistan and Iraq," said Rep. Ted Poe (R-Tex.), who has proposed legislation allowing border-state governors to send 10,000 Guardsmen to the area. "Whether you want to call it a war zone, or whatever, we need the National Guard because of criminal violence along the border."Deployment denouncedHuman rights organizations and policy analysts say the U.S. military deployment endangers civilians and is wasteful, pointing to FBI statistics showing that crime in many areas on the U.S. side is at its lowest point in years.Drug violence has killed more than 30,000 in Mexico in the past four years, and the country's powerful trafficking gangs have turned Mexican towns along the U.S. border into bloody urban battlefields.Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), whose district includes the state's southeast corner, where 58-year-old rancher Robert Krentz and his dog were shot and killed in March, said the troops help keep the mayhem on the other side."Mexican and American authorities have gone after cartel kingpins, and because of the disruption, these gangs are going after each other," Giffords said. "We're seeing tremendous violence along the border that we haven't seen in the past."Once overwhelmed and understaffed, U.S. Customs and Border Protection has been on a hiring binge in recent years, increasing its number of agents from 10,000 in 2004 to more than 20,500 today, Department of Homeland Security figures show. Meanwhile, the number of suspected illegal immigrants apprehended by the Border Patrol has plunged more than 60 percent, from an all-time high of 1.1 million in fiscal 2004 to fewer than 447,500 last fiscal year.High unemployment in the United States is a major reason for the decrease, experts say. Although fewer illegal migrants are crossing and several large urban areas have become safer, drug seizures have increased and tougher enforcement is pushing traffickers into more remote rural areas. That has led to several high-profile killings that have fueled fears of encroaching violence.The most recent came Dec. 14, when Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry was killed in a shootout with a group of bandits devoted to robbing drug smugglers and immigrants. Four suspects were arrested in the killing, and a fifth is the target of an ongoing manhunt.It was the seventh shooting this year on rancher David Lowell's 32,000-acre property outside Rio Rico, where the jagged Tumacacori Mountains are traversed with south-north smuggling trails snaking out of Mexico. Two years ago, a man working for Lowell found a human head inside a plastic bag on a nearby ridge."We never found the body that went with it," said Lowell, 82.Like many landowners here, Lowell said he would like to see a larger and more muscular military deployment in the region. "I think that if there were a battalion of troops in Arizona and they did unpleasant things to people that were breaking the law, the trouble would stop overnight," he said.The 1,200 National Guard troops are stationed at strategic points along the 2,000-mile border, including both urban and unfenced remote rural areas. But they are under orders to avoid interacting with civilians on either side, and they do not make apprehensions, said Salinas, who oversees the partnership with the Border Patrol and other DHS agencies in his state.Instead, the troops stand lookout near trafficking hot spots and report illegal crossings to nearby Border Patrol agents, who make the arrests and narcotics seizures.Use of forceSalinas said he could not discuss his troops' use-of-force policies, citing security protocols. But the Guardsmen are fully armed, as they would be in any combat environment, he said. "In the event something happens out there, our soldiers and airmen understand the rules of use of force," he said.That is another point of concern for critics of the U.S. military presence. In 1997, U.S. Marines tasked with similar border-guard duties shot and killed an American high school student near Redford, Tex., who was carrying a .22 rifle as he tended a herd of goats, an incident that prompted a suspension of troop patrols."There is a tendency for military to think that they're looking at an enemy, and that's a recipe for disaster," said George Withers, a senior fellow at the Washington Office on Latin America, a group that tracks U.S. policy in the region.Between 2006 and 2008, the Bush administration assigned as many as 6,000 Guardsmen to assist Border Patrol agents in a similar capacity and to help with border fence improvements as well as other security enhancements. Withers said the current troop deployment fulfills more of a political need, rather than a practical one."We're treating the National Guard as a kind of 'super police,' and it's just wrong," he said. "Police are trained to use minimum force to enforce the laws. The military is trained to use overwhelming lethal force to win wars."Some Mexican officials have criticized the troop deployment as an unnecessary "militarization" of the border. But Arturo Sarukhan, Mexico's ambassador to the United States, said that sending National Guard troops to the border was "a sovereign decision of the U.S government" and noted that Mexico's military is widely deployed along its border as well.Still, Sarukhan said he thought "other U.S. agencies are better suited to engage with their Mexican counterparts in confronting transnational organized crime operating on both sides of our border."Sarukhan said he is also concerned about troops from both countries working in such close proximity, where demarcation lines are not always clear and cross-border communication is often lacking."We have our armed forces doing drug interdiction and securing the border on our side, and that could lead to unfortunate mistakes," he said.In Nogales, activists say the soldiers' presence makes the area appear under siege."They say they're here because it's a dangerous area, but we live here," said Gustavo Lozano, a coordinator of the group Fronteras Desiguales, which advocates for migrants and against racial profiling of Latinos in the United States. "I feel less safe with them here," he said. Click here to read this article in The Washington Post
12.17.2010	Congressman Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement following last nights vote on the unemployment/tax extension compromise:This has been a long drawn out process for a very simple solution cut taxes and cut spending. Unfortunately, this lame-duck Congress didnt do that. I fully support extending the tax cuts, but I cannot support the short-term deal negotiated by the White House and party leaders that will only prolong the problem and do little to create stability in the job market. In order to keep taxes from increasing, this so-called deal increased spending and added to the deficit. Thats no deal. Continuing to leave businesses and families in financial limbo is just kicking the can down the road. A deal for the American people would have been to make the tax cuts permanent, eliminate the death tax and CUT spending. This bill fell way short of that.I was one of 36 conservatives to vote no. This was not a vote against the tax extension; just the opposite. This was a vote against more spending and for a better deal for the American taxpayer in the next Congress.Why this is a No Deal for taxpayers:Legislation Is Not Permanent; Does Not Go Far EnoughThis bill extends the current tax rate for three years; not enough to provide long term stability. Death Tax Reinstated The death tax was eliminated in 2010 (as part of the 2001 tax law), but is not extended as part of this law.The bills death tax provision is actually a tax increase compared to keeping it at the current rate of 0%. Incomplete Solution to our Economic ProblemsTax cuts dont add to the deficit; spending does. Our formula for economic recovery should be to cut taxes AND spending; this bill only fulfilled half of that formula. More Strain on Social SecurityIn the absence of comprehensive Social Security reform, this bill will put further strain on a Social Security system already in dire fiscal straits. A Better DealWith a changeover in the House come January, a better deal would be possible.Congressman Poe is the cosponsor of H.R. 205, the Death Tax Repeal Act to permanently repeal the death tax; and H.R. 470, the Economic Recovery and Middle Class Tax Relief Act that would completely repeal the AMT and reduce individual and corporate income tax rates to facilitate increased investment and additional jobs. ###
12.16.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announcedtoday that the Preserving Criminal Assets for Forfeiture Act has passed both the House and the Senate. Rep. Poe and Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32) sponsored the House version of this legislation. S. 4005, the identical companion bill introduced in the Senate by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and John Cornyn (R-TX), was unanimously approved by the US House of Representatives today.This bill will make it easier to freeze the assets held in the United States by foreign criminals.The legislation will cut down on the funds available for international criminals to further their enterprises. It will also encourage foreign countries to assist the United States in recovering the overseas assets of U.S. criminals.I applaud my colleagues in both the House and Senate for their unanimous support of this important legislation, stated Poe. Currently, US law only allows us to seize a drug cartel members assets in the United States after a final judgment has been issued in a Mexican criminal court. With a conviction rate of less than 5% in Mexico, this means that we are unable to seize a majority of cartel assets in the United States before the money has disappeared. The legislation would allow a US court to issue a restraining order to freeze these assets after ruling that there is evidence of criminal activity. Not only will this increase our ability to hit these cartels financially, but also use those resources to fund additional investigations and prosecutions. The United States must do more to fight the dangerous drug cartels that thrive along our southern border. I know all too well how these drug cartels can hurt Americans, both at home and abroad. That is why I have introduced this legislation that will help law enforcement strike at the heart of these organizations - by seizing their illicit profits, said Rep. Chu.The U.S. Department of Justice estimates that hundreds of millions of dollars have been laundered by international criminal organizations because the defendants moved the assets out of the U.S. before the U.S. courts could seize them. This bill will fix this problem by preventing criminals from removing assets from the United States during the pendency of foreign forfeiture proceedings. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Border Security; as Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus; and recognized nationally as a leading advocate for border security. Prior to serving in Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.###
12.15.2010	In response to the murder of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian A. Terry last night along the border of Rio Rico, Arizona, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement: Our Border Patrol agents are under constant daily attack, and it's from people that are coming into the United States illegally. This tragedy is a grave reminder of the dangers those who guard the border encounter on a daily basis. That is why it is imperative that we secure the violent border. We need more National Guards to help our Border Patrol, said Poe. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Border Patrol Agent, Brian A. Terry." Agent Brian A. Terry was shot and killed along the Arizona-Mexico border last night. His fatal shooting marks the third death this year of Border Patrol agents in the line of duty. Over 108 Border Patrol agents in a 2-month period have been assaulted in the Tucson area, and over one-thousand were assaulted last year alone on the U.S.-Mexico border. Rep. Ted Poe has introduced legislation that would require at the request of border governors to deploy 10,000 National Guard troops at the U.S-Mexico border. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Border Security; Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus; and recognized nationally as a leading advocate for border security. Prior to serving in Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.# # #
12.13.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement after a federal judge in Virginia ruled that the current healthcare bill is unconstitutional. The ruling found that Congress lacks the authority to impose the laws individual mandate which will force every American to purchase government approved health insurance.Todays ruling by the federal court in Virginia is a victory for the Constitution and the people. The federal government has overreached its authority in requiring Americans to buy something under the guise of a tax or pay a fine. The commerce clause doesn't allow this expansion of federal control and far exceeds the taxing authority of the federal government set forth by our Constitution. The federal government does not have the right to force us to buy anything, whether it be health insurance or a box of donuts.In addition, Congressman PoeintroducedH.R.4904which will prohibit funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to any federal department or agency to implement or enforce any federal mandate to purchase health insurance. That means no new federal mandate, or no new 16,000 IRS agents to enforce the mandate.Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center. Congressman Poe is a member of the House Judiciary Committee. # # #
12.09.2010	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Ensuring Affordable Energy Act. This bill will prohibit federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases. Rep. Poe was joined by 25 original cosponsors. The cap-and-trade national tax on energy consumption is the mother of all mandates, said Poe. Although the cap-and-tax legislation has not become law, the administration has indicated that it will implement this policy through new EPA regulations without Congress approval. The American public has overwhelming disapproved of this policy and this bill will put an end to any back-door attempt to go around Congress and circumvent the will of the people. The taxacrats want to control every dollar spent on energy in America, continued Poe. They also want control over who can use it and how. Every person and business that uses energy will be taxed for the use of that energy. This scheme will bankrupt manufacturing businesses and cost American families and small businesses thousands of dollars a year in new taxes.H.R. 6511 The Ensuring Affordable Energy Act:Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise available for the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may be used to implement or enforce A cap and trade program; or Any statutory or regulatory requirement pertaining to emissions of one or more greenhouse gases from stationary sources that is issued or becomes applicable or effective after January 1, 2011. ###
12.08.2010	Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32) introduced the bipartisan bill, Preserving Criminal Assets for Forfeiture Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives last week. A companion bill was also introduced in the Senate by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and John Cornyn (R-TX). This bill will make it easier to freeze the assets held in the United States by foreign criminals.The legislation will cut down on the funds available for international criminals to further their enterprises. It will also encourage foreign countries to assist the United States in recovering the overseas assets of U.S. criminals.Currently, US law only allows us to seize a drug cartel members assets in the United States after a final judgment has been issued in a Mexican criminal court. With a conviction rate of less than 5% in Mexico, this means that we are unable to seize a majority of cartel assets in the United States before the money has disappeared. The legislation would allow a US court to issue a restraining order to freeze these assets after ruling that there is evidence of criminal activity. Not only will this increase our ability to hit these cartels financially, but also use those resources to fund additional investigations and prosecutions, said Rep. Poe. The United States must do more to fight the dangerous drug cartels that thrive along our southern border. I know all too well how these drug cartels can hurt Americans, both at home and abroad. That is why I have introduced this legislation that will help law enforcement strike at the heart of these organizations - by seizing their illicit profits, said Rep. Chu.The U.S. Department of Justice estimates that hundreds of millions of dollars have been laundered by international criminal organizations because the defendants moved the assets out of the U.S. before the U.S. courts could seize them. This bill will fix this problem by preventing criminals from removing assets from the United States during the pendency of foreign forfeiture proceedings. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Border Security; as Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus; and recognized nationally as a leading advocate for border security. Prior to serving in Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.# # #
12.08.2010	1. Do you support keeping the Bush-era tax cuts? Yes. The series of tax cuts enacted in 2001 early in the George W. Bush Administration are set to expire in 2010. The major tax cuts are: reduced tax rates, the reduction of the marriage penalty (and increase in the marriage bonus), the repeal of the personal exemption phase-out and the limitation on itemized deductions, the reduced tax rates on long-term capital gains and qualified dividends, and expanded tax credits. Now is not the time to raise taxes on millions of Americans. The Associated Press reported that the unemployment rate has been stuck above 9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months, the longest stretch since the 1930s. A family of four, for instance, with an annual income of $50,000 would face a tax increase of more than $2,000.Americans just cant afford a tax hike. 2. If so, are you worried about the tax cuts increasing the national deficit? No. Our deficit problem comes from Congress spending too much, not taxing Americans too little. 3. The tax cuts for couples making more than $250,000 and individuals making more than $200,000 affect approximately 3% of small businesses. How do keeping those tax cuts help small businesses? The Joint Committee on Taxation found that approximately half of the income (47%) targeted by the Presidents marginal tax rate increase proposals in 2011 would be earned by small business owners.This data is consistent with Gallup survey results showing that approximately half of the small business owners who employ 20 or more workers would be hit by the marginal tax rate increases. Thats a big hit to a group thats responsible for 70% of new jobs. 4. Will you support reinstating the estate tax expected to resurface in 2011? No, no one should be taxed for dying. 5. How will this help land owners? After no estate tax in 2010, it is set to kick back on Jan. 1 at a maximum rate of 55% with an exemption for the first $1 million. That means, land owners, especially farmers, will have over half of their land taxed by the government should they die and want to leave their land to their children. This is a great way to kill family businesses. We shouldnt punish people for dying just because the federal government cant kick its addiction to out-of-control spending.
12.02.2010	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced the Voter Integrity Act. This bill will prohibit federal funds from going to a local jurisdiction or state that permits voting by non-citizens. Local jurisdictions should not be receiving federal funds to have elections which contradict federal law, said Poe. United States citizenship is a privilege. Citizenship means something. Every year, hundreds of thousands of people, originally from all over the world, go through the U.S. naturalization process in order to become U.S. citizens so that they may earn the privileges and responsibilities that full U.S. citizenship grants them. Only lawful U.S. citizens should vote in elections in the United States. In 1996, Congress passed the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act which recognized the importance of U.S. citizenship, and prohibited non-citizens from voting in federal elections. However, the law does not apply to state and local elections.Due to this loophole, a number of local jurisdictions continue to allow people living here illegally to vote in some elections. The Voter Integrity Act will not only protect the sanctity of voting in the United States, but will prevent government money from being spent in states that allow non-citizen voting. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Border Security; and Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.Congressman Poe was joined by the following original cosponsors: Rep. Buck McKeon (CA-25), Rep. Joe Pitts (PA-16), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Rep. Phil Gingrey (GA-11), Rep. John Shadegg (AZ-03), Rep. Steve King (IA-05), Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01), Rep. Virginia Foxx (NC-05) and Rep. John Culberson (TX-07). ###
12.01.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the administrations new moratorium on offshore drilling leases in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, Pacific, or Atlantic coasts through 2017. "The administrations new ban on offshore drilling further proves they support a none of the above approach to domestic energy independence. The BP Deep Water Horizon tragedy has been irresponsibly used to further a far left political agenda. We have been drilling safely in the Gulf for more than 50 years. The United States is recognized as the foremost experts in this industry around the world. This ban will not only devastate the hundreds of thousands of families that rely on the drilling and petrochemical industries all along the Gulf Coast, but will also drastically limit our nations energy needs for the future.In addition, this new ban will further our dependence on unfriendly foreign oil-rich nations and do nothing to advance the unproven alternative energy platform that is being forced on the American people. The American people overwhelming support offshore drilling and this is one more example of big government doing what it wants to do versus what the majority of the people want.
11.18.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is urging against a plan being considered by the administration to begin to withdraw National Guard troops from the US-Mexico border in February 2011. Rep. Poe plans to join other members of Congress in a letter to the President later today. The last thing we need to do right now is pull any resources from the border, said Poe. In fact, we need to be doing the exact opposite. Considering any plan that would draw down troops from the border and further weaken national security shows exactly how far out-of-touch Washington really is with reality.The Department of Homeland Security confirmed that under this proposed plan, in February 2011, the Texas, New Mexico and California National Guard forces that were deployed to the border in September 2010, under the President's Southwest Border Augmentation Plan, will have 30 days to complete a total draw down of forces. The funds originally budgeted to those three states will be reprogrammed to allow Arizona an additional 100 troops from March - September 2011 or until such timewhen the funding allocated to this program is exhausted. The current funding and deployment is inadequate, continued Poe. In Texas, the current deployment of 286 unarmed troops for 1,256 miles of border is nothing more than a political attempt to say they are doing something, when in fact they are not doing anything. The American people are sick to death of the continued lip service given to the war along our southern border. We protect the people and the borders of other nations every day, its time we start taking care of business at home.Recently, Congressman Poe filed the National Guard Border Enforcement Act. This bill will authorize the Secretary of Defense to make 10,000 National Guard troops available upon request from a U.S. Governor. In addition, these troops will be paid for by the federal government and serve under the command of the requesting governor.Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Texas Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.To view a copy of the letter sent to President Obama, click here ###
11.16.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined 103 bipartisan members in urging the administration to remove the main Iranian opposition group, the Mujahedin-e Khalq (MEK), from the list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations.In recent years, some of the highest judicial authorities in Europe have made the same recommendations to their governments, and as a result, in 2008 and 2009, the MEK was scratched off the lists in Britain and the 27-member European Union, respectively. In a recent letter to Secretary Clinton, the bipartisan group of lawmakers urged for an end to the MEKs continued designation in the US. The Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has invoked the listing to deny the residents of Camp Ashraf, home to 3,400 MEK members, including 1000 women, their fundamental rights guaranteed under international law. In July 2009, Iraqi forces carried out a violent raid against the camp residents, which left 11 residents dead and hundreds injured.H. Res. 1431 calls for an end to the violence, arrests, torture, and ill treatment perpetrated against Iranian citizens as well as the unconditional release of all political prisoners in Iran. In addition, the resolution: Calls upon the U.S. government to condemn human rights violations and support the Iranian people's endeavors towards democracy; Calls to remove the People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran from the State Department's list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations; Calls to impose sanctions; and efforts to create an international consensus to deal with Iran's nuclear program; and Calls on the President to persuade U.S. allies and other countries to enact appropriate measures against Iranian banks and financial institutions involved in nuclear activities and backing of terrorist groups. Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and is the founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights caucus. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website: http://poe.house.gov. ###
11.03.2010	Congressman Ted Poe was re-elected to a 4th term in the US House of Representatives with 89% of the vote. I am honored to continue to represent the 2nd District of Texas. As a nation, we were established on the principle of 'We the People,' not 'We the Subjects.' Like most people in our great nation, Southeast Texans still believe that the Constitution is the foundation of our government. I look forward to continuing to serve as Texas' conservative voice in Congress."# # #
11.01.2010	Published on RAINN | Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (http://www.rainn.org)Lawmakers Making a DifferenceEach month, RAINN recognizes members of the U.S. Congress whose efforts have helped reduce sexual violence or improved the lives of sexual violence victims. The Lawmakers Making a Difference program recognizes congressional and senatorial support of sexual violence issues, bipartisan efforts, and leadership in pursuing legislation.These federal legislators are RAINN's indispensable partners on Capitol Hill...Their leadership and hard work...have led to a significant reduction in sexual violence and the expansion of victims' services over the last decade. Scott Berkowitz, president and founder of RAINNU.S. House of Representatives"Preventing sexual assault is an important cause that every American should learn more about and find ways to support. As the largest anti-sexual assault organization in America, the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network is an outstanding organization that helps millions of helpless victims through counseling for women and influencing policy and, as a member of Congress and an American, I am proud to support this compassionate program." ~ Congressman Robert Aderholt (R-AL)"I share RAINN's commitment to helping survivors of sexual violence. It is vital that we work together on all fronts to ensure that victims of these violent crimes receive the support that they deserve and that perpetrators are put behind bars. Improving public policy, increasing awareness of the long-term effects of sexual assault, and supporting RAINN's National Sexual Assault Hotlines are important ways that we can both support survivors and reduce the number of sexual assaults across the country." ~ Congressman John Boehner (R-OH)Every two minutes someone in the U.S. is sexually assaulted, said Congressman Cohen. RAINN provides victims of sex abuse with the help they need to recover. Their services are free, safe and confidential. We must do everything in our power to end sex abuse, and that is why I am committed to working with RAINN to expand victims rights and make our communities safer through their awareness, support and prevention programs. ~ Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN)As a co-founder of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, I commend RAINN for the critical services they provide to victims of sexual violence and their role in educating our youth about the dangers of sexual assault. I look forward to continuing to partner with RAINN in the 111th Congress to advance our mutual goals of prevention, education, and support. ~ Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA)Having worked on violence prevention for many years, I applaud RAINN for raising awareness and increasing services for victims of violent crime. With the upcoming reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), it is important to recognize the critical safety net services provided to survivors of sexual assault by organizations such as RAINN. ~ Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards (D-MD)I truly appreciate the work that RAINN does to raise awareness about sexual violence. It is so important for victims of abuse to know that they have a place to go for information and support, which is exactly what RAINN provides with their national help hotlines and counseling resources. Im proud to say that I work with RAINN, and will continue to support them in their mission to prevent sexual violence and provide the help that victims need. ~ Congresswoman Sue Myrick (R-NC)Love never comes with black eyes and bruises. As a founder and co-chair of the Victims Rights Caucus and a lifetime advocate for victims, I am proud to support RAINN in their efforts to be a voice for victims of sexual violence. I look forward to working with RAINN to raise awareness about the dangers of sexual assault and advocate for victims of these terrible crimes. ~ Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX)I salute RAINN for the national leadership role it has taken in support of the victims of sexual assault. Their everyday work makes a huge difference in the lives of people who, more often than not, have no voice and who struggle daily with the atrocious acts committed against them. There is no place in todays society for sexual assault or abuse, but unfortunately they take place, so we are fortunate to have an organization such as RAINN ready to take the lead and make a difference. Without a doubt, their yeomens work is critical and important to the victims they so honorably help. ~ Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL)I am proud to have secured federal funds to help RAINN connect with victims of sexual abuse and violence. Often, these victims do not know where to turn for help and the people at RAINN are there to offer them instant care, support and hope amid a horrific crisis." ~ Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD)"In addition to RAINN's outreach and education efforts to the general public, RAINN continues to be a trusted source of information and resources for members of Congress seeking to prevent sexual assault and strengthen laws against those that commit these heinous crimes. I also commend RAINN's continued service to victims of sexual assault through their National Sexual Assault Hotline. Having the ability to privately discuss such a personal and traumatic experience with trained professionals is the first step in a road to recovery for thousands of individuals." ~ Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL)U.S. SenateRAINN has helped millions of victims deal with the devastating trauma of rape and incest and has saved countless more from suffering sexual assault through their prevention programs. As a lawmaker, Im proud to support an organization that gives voice to victims, enables these women and children to heal, and helps strengthen laws against the criminals of these horrendous crimes. ~ Senator Kit Bond (R-MO)I commend RAINN for its dedicated efforts to prevent domestic violence and sexual assault, and its commitment to raising public awareness about these critical issues. RAINN is a national leader in providing vital resources and services to abuse survivors and helps ensure that they get the help and support they need. I will continue to support efforts at the federal level to prevent and raise awareness about sexual violence. ~ Senator Susan Collins (R-ME)I continue to work in the United States Senate to ensure that our nations laws safeguard Utahns, as well as all Americans, and ensure that the needs of victims and the interests of justice are served. I am committed to being a voice for citizens who fall prey to sexual assaults, and I will continue to advocate for laws that bring sex offenders to justice and strengthen law enforcement tools and resources, such as RAINN's National Sexual Assault Hotlines. ~ Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT)RAINNs compassion and advocacy on behalf of those who have suffered unthinkable crimes sets the bar high. As a former prosecutor who has fought in the Senate on behalf of sexual assault victims, I was proud to partner with RAINN to try and help secure federal funding for their National Sexual Assault Hotlines and nationwide rape education and outreach programs. These free, confidential services are vital in the fight against sexual assault. ~ Senator John Kerry (D-MA)RAINN has long been at the forefront of national efforts to prevent sexual assault and has helped millions of victims, families, friends, and community members all touched by violent crime. As a former prosecutor, I am proud to support the nations largest anti-sexual assault organization and stand committed to joining RAINN in its efforts to improve services to victims and ensure that rapists are brought to justice. ~ Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN)As a longtime supporter of victims rights, and the co-author of the Crime Victims Rights Act of 2005, I appreciate RAINNs work for the victims of sexual violence. These heinous crimes must be combated with law enforcement support, resources for victims, and public education to stop the cycle of violence. RAINN has been at the forefront of this issue, not only as a leading advocate, but also a resource, for sexual assault victims. ~ Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ)RAINN has become a national leader in giving voice to some of the most vulnerable people in our communities those working through the trauma of sexual abuse. I am proud to support RAINN, and have encouraged those in Congress to do the same. By helping to support RAINNs outreach efforts, including the National Sexual Assault Hotline, we demonstrate our commitment to helping victims of violence. ~ Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VTSexual violence leaves women with emotional and physical scars and it often leaves families torn apart. This is an issue of saving lives, and we must do everything we can in Congress to implement policy that helps rid our communities of these heinous crimes. I applaud RAINN for its tireless leadership, and look forward to continuing working with it to address this issue. ~ Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ)Sexual assault and violence exacts terrible costs on individual lives and our communities. As Chairwoman of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee, I fight every year to put funds in the federal checkbook to protect Americans from sexual assault and violence, and to provide victims of these crimes the support services they need. I will continue my fight to put funds in the federal checkbook to fund these important programs. ~ Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD)Alaska has the highest rates of sexual assault and domestic violence in the nation. As a born and raised Alaskan and the senior Senator from my state, I am not proud to report these statistics; however, it is a reality that cannot be ignored. At every level local, state, and federal we must work to turn the tide of domestic violence and sexual assault. Domestic violence and sexual assault advocates, and service providers in Alaska are on the front lines of an epidemic, and I know that RAINN is an important resource for them. Thank you for the work that you do. ~ Senator Lisa Murkowski (R-AK)RAINN rebuilds the lives of countless victims of sexual violence, serving as a vital support system for those in need. Its prevention and awareness initiatives have made our communities stronger, safer and more secure. I appreciate and commend their commitment and hope RAINN will continue to have a healing impact for the thousands of children and adults who are affected by violence each year. ~ Senator Mark Pryor (D-AR)Victims of sexual crimes are among the most vulnerable members of our society. It is critical that Congress protect these victims by recognizing and addressing issues associated with such horrible crimes. As a U.S. Senator, I will continue to support legislation and funding to that end. ~ Senator Richard Shelby (R-AL)Original posting
10.27.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was honored with the Tax Fighter Award by The National Tax Limitation Committee (NTLC) for his fiscally conservative voting record in the 111th Congress.He received score of 95-percent. I came to Congress with a pledge that I will not vote for a bill that raises taxes and I have remained true to that promise, said Poe. Less spending, not more taxes, is the answer. American taxpayers pay enough in taxes. The problem is the federal government doesnt know when to stop spending.NTLC has scored Congress on taxpayer issues for 25 years. Through a standard selection process, Members were chosen on their commitment and voting record to eliminate the death tax, to eliminate the 1993 tax increase on Social Security earnings, to kill the Alternative Minimum Tax, to provide incentives for private savings, investment and job creation and to control the growth of federal spending. The National Tax Limitation Committee has awarded Congressman Ted Poe the Tax Fighter Award for the 111th Congress for his superior voting record, leadership, and outstanding public service on behalf of Americas Taxpayers, said NTLC President Lewis K. Uhler. NTLCwas organized in 1975 to support Taxpayer education. Its mission has been: to engage in educational and research activities which can facilitate structural change, reforms and discipline in government at all levels to assure constitutionally limited government as intended by the Founders of our Nation.To view the scorecard, click here# # #
10.27.2010	The White HouseOffice of the Press SecretaryFor Immediate ReleaseOctober 27, 2010Remarks by the President at Domestic Violence Awareness EventEast Room4:25 P.M. EDT THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, everybody. (Applause.) Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you so much. Let me just be clear. Bidens boss is Dr. Jill Biden. (Laughter.) So let there be no confusion about that. I want to begin, obviously, by recognizing my Vice President for the unbelievable leadership that he has shown for more than two decades on this issue -- fighting alongside all the advocates who are here today. (Applause.) Great work. He started holding hearings on domestic violence back in 1990. He wrote and gathered the support to pass the Violence Against Womens Act -- a law that has saved countless lives, transformed how we address these all-too-pervasive crimes. And as Vice President, he hasnt let up. He is helping us to step up our efforts across all the relevant federal agencies. So nobody feels more passionately about this than Joe, and I am grateful to him for all of his leadership. We're really proud of him. (Applause.) I also want to thank Valerie Jarrett, my senior advisor and chair of our Council on Women and Girls. Valerie has helped ensure that the issues that were talking about today -- the concerns of women and girls -- are addressed at the highest levels of our government. I want to acknowledge Lynn Rosenthal, the first-ever advisor at the White House -- (applause.) So we're proud of Lynn. I guess you know her. (Laughter.) Shes been calling you up a little bit. But shes doing great work helping to advise us on these issues. I want to thank Judge Susan Carbon, the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice. (Applause.) We're proud of what we're doing here. I want to thank my Secretary for Health and Human Services, Secretary Sebelius, who is helping to coordinate our efforts. And finally, I want to thank everybody who is here today for the work that youre doing to stop domestic violence and to help its survivors. Youve got champions like Senator Frank Lautenberg and Congresswoman Donna Edwards who have done extraordinary work in Congress. Youve got leaders like Mayor Mitch Landrieu of New Orleans. And I think you already heard about some of the interesting work that theyre doing down in that city. There are so many organizations that are represented here today -- we are very proud of you and what you do. I'm thrilled to see Joe Torre, whos here, who understands this issue personally and deeply, and for him to lend his name to this is extraordinarily important. And we hope that the Dodgers do better next year. (Laughter.) My White Sox aren't doing so hot, either. (Laughter.) As you all know, domestic violence was for far too long seen as a lesser offense. As Valerie said, it was frequently treated like a private matter. Victims were often just sent home from the hospital without intervention; children were left to suffer in silence. And as a consequence, abuse could go on for years. In many cases, this violence would only end with the death of a woman or a child. And we've come an incredibly long way since that time. We have changed laws. Weve made progress in changing the way people think about domestic abuse. As Joe pointed out, weve reduced the incidence of domestic violence. And weve done so in no small part because of the advocacy of your organizations and the willingness of victims to tell their own stories, even when its difficult. And if theres one group that I want to thank, am grateful for, its people who are willing to tell their stories -- because its hard. Its hard stuff. When Joe Torre stands up and talks about growing up in an abusive household, about being afraid to come home when he saw his dads car parked in the front of the house, and finding a refuge in baseball -- that connects in a way that no speech by a politician can connect. As a consequence, he started Safe at Home, a foundation for children going through what he went through, and its helping kids all across the country. Were joined by Lori Stone and Ruth Glenn, both of whom were victims of years of violent abuse in their marriages. And theyre sharing their stories in the hope that nobody else has to experience the pain and fear that they lived with every day. Those stories remind us of how cruel, how menacing domestic violence can be -- because it happens at home, the place where you should feel safe. Because the abuse comes at the hands of the people who are supposed to love you and trust you. Because escaping domestic violence is not only associated with a great deal of fear but also incredible financial and legal challenges that often leave victims of abuse feeling trapped. Thats what we have to change. And I say that not only as a President, but as a son, as a husband, as the father of two daughters. Now, weve made a great deal of progress in recent years. But everybody in this room understands that our work is not yet finished. Not when theres more we can do to help folks looking to restart their lives and achieve financial independence. Not when theres more to do to ensure that the victims of abuse have access to legal protection. Not when children are trapped in abusive homes -- especially when we know the lingering damage and despair that this can cause in a childs life. Not when one in every four women experiences domestic violence -- and one in six women are sexually assaulted -- at some point in their lives. Its not acceptable. And I know that Valerie and Joe spoke about some of our efforts in detail, but I just want to highlight a few key parts of what is a new, coordinated effort to protect victims and break the cycle of abuse. Were helping the victims of violence to overcome the financial barriers they often face getting back on their feet. And Loris experience serves as an example. Lori had not only -- had suffered abuse at the hands of her husband physically, he also destroyed their credit. And she had to spend her limited savings on legal representation to keep custody of her children. So were going to start taking steps to connect survivors with jobs, to help them save, to make it easier for them to rebuild their credit, to make sure that no one has to choose between a violent home and no home at all. (Applause.) Secretary Donovan at the Department of Housing and Urban Development is releasing new rules today to prevent the victims of domestic violence from being evicted or denied assisted housing because a crime was committed against them. Thats not right. And were going to put a stop to it. (Applause.) Were also doing more to help the victims of domestic violence access legal services and protections. So today, the Justice Department is releasing new tools and best practice to judges, to advocates, to law enforcement to help ensure that protective orders are issued and enforced. And the Vice President and the Justice Department are launching a new effort to help victims of domestic abuse find lawyers to represent them pro bono. You heard Joe talk about that. That's critical. That's important. (Applause.) As the advocates in this room can attest, when a victim of abuse leaves a violent relationship its often a particularly vulnerable time. I know thats when Ruth Glenn was viciously attacked by her husband. And there are many stories like this -- too many stories. We need to make sure that were doing everything we can for victims in this critical period -- to ensure that folks who are seeking help and protection get that help and get that protection. Thats our responsibility. So these are just a few of the steps that were taking. But the bottom line is this: Nobody in America should live in fear because they are unsafe in their own home -- no adult, no child. And no one who is the victim of abuse should ever feel that they have no way to get out. We need to make sure every victim of domestic violence knows that they are not alone; that there are resources available to them in their moment of greatest need. And as a society, we need to ensure that if a victim of abuse reaches out for help, we are there to lend a hand. This is not just the job of government. Its a job for all of us. So I want to thank all of you for the work that you do in your respective communities. And I want you to know that this administration is going to stand with you each and every step of the way. So congratulations on your great work. We've got more work to do. And I couldn't be prouder to be part of this effort. Thank you very much, everybody. (Applause.)END4:36 P.M. EDTSource
10.26.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was named a Champion of National Security by the Center for Security Policy (CSP) last week. Receiving a score of 100-percent, he was among the 158 United States Representatives and 32 Senators honored with this celebrated title. The first duty of the federal government is to protect the people of this country, said Poe. From the borders to the big cities, America's national security should always be our number one priority. I am honored to receive this award and I will remain committed to supporting legislation that ensures the safety and security of our country and the American people.The Members of the 111th Congress were evaluated on their performance in matters relating to security interests of the United States. House and Senate members voting records in relation to national security legislation were also observed. The Center commends those in the Senate and House who have, in the face of these threats, distinguished themselves as Champions of National Security, and hopes that the numbers of such legislators will grow substantially in the 112th Congress and beyond, said Frank Gaffney, President of The Center for Security Policy. Founded in 1988, The Center for Security Policy is a non-profit, non-partisan national security organization that specializes in identifying policies, actions, and resource needs that are vital to American security. To learn more about CSP, please visit: www.centerforsecuritypolicy.org To view the National Security Scorecard, click here # # #
10.07.2010	On Monday, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to the U.S. State Department Secretary Hillary Clinton inquiring about the steps being taken by the United States in recovering the body of David Michael Hartley. Local authorities report that David Hartley was shot and killed when he and his wife, Tiffany, crossed over into Mexican waters to get a look at a sunken mission below the surface. Tiffany reports the couple was ambushed by gunmen from the Mexican side of the lake. While she managed to escape, Davids body remains missing.The number one issue at hand is that an American citizen has been reportedly murdered, his body is missing in Mexican waters and our government is not taking charge of the situation, said Poe. It has now been nearly a week and the State Department is still waiting for permission from the Mexican government to locate the body of an American citizen. This is unacceptable.It concerns me a great deal that we are leaving the recovery efforts up to the Mexican government, continued Poe. The drug cartels have operational control of the area on the Mexican side of the border. Not to mention, their track record for solving murder cases is less than impressive.This is not the first report of armed attacks on Falcon Lake. Zapata County Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzales has been calling for help from federal authorities for months. In May of this year, Congressman Poe detailed some of these crimes on the House floor. To view the letter sent to Sec. Hillary Clinton, click here. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.# # #
09.29.2010	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was joined by 20 members of Congress to announcethe National Guard Border Enforcement Act. This bill, H.R. 6253,will authorize the Secretary of Defense to make 10,000 National Guard troops available upon request from a U.S. Governor. In addition, these troops will be paid for by the federal government and serve under the command of the requesting governor.In response to the federal governments failure to answer the repeated requests of Governor Perry and other border state governors to protect our international borders, the National Guard Border Enforcement Act will ensure that border state governors have the needed resources to protect their citizens from the ongoing border related violence. The first duty of the federal government is to protect its people, said Poe. Texans are tired of the federal governments failure to secure our borders and enforce our laws, yet at the same time running roughshod over state governments when they try to enforce the law and protect their citizens. The federal governments not our problem attitude is unacceptable and this legislation will require the Defense Department to do what they were created to do protect the people of this country and the dignity of our borders. "This is a tremendous first step in restoring America's ability to secure our border, said House Republican Conference SecretaryJohn Carter(TX-31).Congressman Poe's billaddressesthe lead recommendation from our southern border field investigations in August." Currently, the Department of Defense has only allocated 250 National Guard troops for entire 1,254 mile long Texas-Mexico border. Recently, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano indicated that the state of Texas would be forced to pay for any additional troops to enforce existing federal immigration laws along the international border. The federal government is directly responsible for enforcing existing laws to secure our borders and ensure the safe and legal movement of people, goods, and commerce across our borders, said Congressman John Culberson (TX-08). Unfortunately President Obama has failed in this effort and it is now time for Congress to act. There is a war on our southern border and it is time to put an end to the horrific violence.Numerous news accounts have reported on cross border gunfire coming into El Paso, Texas, hitting buildings and passenger vehicles traveling along US highways. In Arizona, the federal government is erecting signs to warn travelers that entire stretches of US highways are no longer safe for US citizens. Under the National Guard Border Enforcement Act, troops will be authorized to conduct: Armed vehicle and foot patrols on the U.S. southern border Interdiction of a vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other similar activities Search, seizure, and detention of suspects Construction of roads, fences, and vehicle barriers Search and rescue operations Intelligence gathering, surveillance, and reconnaissance Aviation supportAdditionally, the bill would allow the Secretary of Defense to authorize additional troops should operational control of the U.S. border not be achieved with the first 10,000 deployed.In addition to the National Guard Border Enforcement Act, Congressman Poe has been a leading advocate in Washington to secure our borders. For a list of sponsored and cosponsored border security legislation, please click here. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.Original cosponsors of the National Guard Border Enforcement Act include: Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12), Rep. Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04), Rep. Ed Royce (CA-40), Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (MD-06), Rep. Pete Hoekstra (MI-02), Rep. John Shadegg (AZ-03), Rep. John Fleming (LA-04), Rep. Sam Graves (MO-06) and Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (CA-46).
09.28.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is pleased to announce that the Department of Justices Office of Justice Programs has awarded more than $610 million in grants to support crime victims. Awarded under the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), this funding goes to provide state and local victim assistance and compensation programs. The Crime Victims Fund, which is overseen by the Office for Victims of Crime (OVC), is unique that it is comprised of fines, penalty assessments, and bail forfeitures collected from convicted federal criminals not taxpayer money. The state compensation programs reimburse victims and their families directly for expenses related to their victimization, including medical and mental health costs and funeral and burial expenses. Crime victims are not statistics, said Poe. They are real men, women and children with families and loved ones, and those victims who manage to survive the acts of violence must not be excluded from the criminal justice system. Their voices must be heard. The VOCA fund is a crucial resource, on which many communities and local organizations rely, Poe continued. In addition to helping victims of crime offset medical expenses, and in the worst cases funeral expenses, the fund also provides much needed funding for local agencies such as rape crisis centers and domestic violence shelters.The Victims of Crime Act was enacted by the initiative of President Ronald Reagan to pay for crime victim services and compensations. There are over 4,000 agencies that depend upon VOCAs victim assistance funds to provide direct services to more than 3.5 million crime victims annually. As the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Congressman Poe has been a leading advocate on behalf of victims of crime. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation to help raise awareness to the issue, as well as protecting the VOCA fund.Before serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years. Congressman Poe is a member of the House Judiciary Committee.
09.27.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces he is a member of the Congressional Tea Party Caucus to promote Americans call for fiscal responsibility, adherence to the Constitution and limited government. Formed around the Tea Partys central ideato call awareness to any issue challenging the security, sovereignty, or domestic tranquility of the United States of America, the caucus invites real people from diverse areas of the country to speak to its members about issues echoing within the Tea Party movement.The Constitution says, We, the people, not We, the subjects, said Rep. Poe. It is an agreement between the people and the government. The Constitution is not some abstract concept that changes depending on the social philosophy of the elites and tyrants of the judiciary. Its a rock. It's the foundation. I have long supported the movement to bring common sense back to Washington, DC and I am proud to join my colleagues in Congress to continue our fight to restore power to its rightful owners the people.To learn more about the Tea Party Caucus and view a complete list of the U.S. House Representatives who have joined the Tea Party Caucus click here.
09.23.2010	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was awarded the Guardian of Small Business Award by the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) for his strong small business voting record in the U.S. House of Representatives. When I was elected to Congress, I took a pledge not to vote for any bill that raises taxes and I have held true to that promise, said Poe. Small businesses are the heart of the American economy, not the federal government. I will continue to support legislation that strengthens our economy by providing incentives to grow small businesses, cut burdensome red tape and allow the principles ofcapitalism to thrive in our small business communities. Dan Danner, President of NFIB, presented the award to Congressman Poe in the Capitol Building along with a copy of How Congress Voted, his small business voting record and the issues used to determine his score. In the 111th Congress, Rep. Poe proved that he is a champion of small business, said Danner. The Guardian of Small Business Award is a token of the deep appreciation that small business owners have for elected officials, who promoted and protect their right to own, operate and grow their businesses. Founded in 1948, as a non-profit, non-partisan organization, the NFIB is the leading small business association representing small and independent businesses. To learn more about the NFIB please visit: www.nfib.com # # #
09.23.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined other members of Congress calling on Speaker Nancy Pelosi to allow the House to consider legislation providing an up-or-down vote to extend the expiring tax cuts before Congress recesses for the October district work period. The American people deserve to have their voices heard, said Poe. I encourage Speaker Pelosi to bring this legislation to the House floor for an immediate up-or-down vote. This is a decision that needs to be made by the representatives of the people, not by the political power play of a few. The only proven method of giving the economy the shot in the arm it needs to recovery is to allow individuals, families and small businesses to keep more of their own money. History has proven time and time again, that tax cuts are the way to prosperity not more spending and more government interference. The letter also states, If Congress fails to act before the end of the year, American families and small business will incur a $3.8 trillion tax increase over $200 billion of which comes next year. This increase will hit millions of small businesses and threatens to take more money out of the private sector. The pending tax increase will impact every American who pays taxes. In addition to eliminating the lowest tax bracket, the tax increases include reinstating the marriage penalty, cutting the child tax credit and resurrecting the Estate Tax.# # #
09.20.2010	PRESS RELEASEFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact Connie Valentine 916-233-8381 A press conference will be held on Friday, October 1, 2010 from 11:00 am to noon in front of the U.S. Department of Justice, 950 Pennsylvania Ave NW, Washington, D.C. On the first day of Domestic Violence Awareness month, advocates and protective mothers whose children have been ordered into the custody of batterers and molesters are gathering to call for an investigation by the DOJ into family court corruption. These mothers are deeply concerned about their children. Mildred Mohammad, former wife of Beltway Sniper John Mohammad, took part in the Mothers' Day vigil at the White House on May 9, 2010. "I was without my children for two years when they were kidnapped by John and the courts didn't listen to me," she told reporters. As in the Mohammad case, family courts across the nation ignore or minimize child safety. Research shows that 70% of batterers who request custody receive it, leading to 58,000 children per year who are forced to live with their identified abusers.[1] Many are killed. Batterers are over 6 times more likely to sexually abuse their children.[2] The social ramifications of this trend are frightening. Children who are abused are at a high risk in adulthood for problems such as addictions, obesity, suicide attempts, heart disease and cancer. [3] After the press conference, the mothers and their supporters will march to the Senate to request Congressional hearings to investigate these violations of law and human rights. The march will end at the Sewall Belmont House at 144 Constitution Ave NE, the suffragists' headquarters when, in 1910, they insisted that women receive the civil right to vote. In 2010, mothers are insisting that children have the human right to physical and sexual safety. Please visit www.mothers-of-lost-children.com for more information.[1] www.leadershipcouncil.org[2] Bancroft, Lundy and Silverman, Jay, The Batterer as Parent, Sage Publications, 2002[3] www.acestudy.org
09.15.2010	Yesterday, Congressman Ted Poe announced his resolution, recognizing and honoring the United States troops who sacrificed their lives on D-Day at the Battle of Normandy during World War II, was passed by the United States House of Representatives by a voice vote. Sixty-six years ago, 31,000 United States soldiers stormed the beaches of Normandy. More than 6,000 Americans gave their lives for the cause of liberty and freedom on June 6, 1944. This bill, co-sponsored by 75 members of Congress, honors the troops who gave their lives, recognizes the 66th anniversary of the D-Day landings and expresses gratitude to the greatest generation of Americans who fearlessly fought for freedom. These brave warriors went to war to liberate Europe for the cause of freedom. The average age of the brave young warriors representing the United States on those shores was just 20 years old. They might have been young but their leadership and their commitment to freedom marked the beginning of the liberation of France and ultimately culminated in the destruction of the Nazi Empire and the triumph of the Allied Forces, said Rep. PoeCongressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittees. # # #
09.14.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Office of Justice ProgramsTuesday, September 14, 2010 Contact: Angie LaTour, 202-307-0703DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AWARDS MORE THAN $610 MILLION IN FUNDING FOR PROGRAMS TO AID CRIME VICTIMSWASHINGTON, D.C. The Department of Justices Office of Justice Programs (OJP) today announced more than $610 million in formula grants to support crime victims. This funding was awarded under the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) to support state and local victim assistance and compensation programs administered by OJPs Office for Victims of Crime (OVC).Every day, innocent citizens are victimized in their homes, communities and, increasingly, from cyberspace. This funding is critical to state and local public and nonprofit organizations to ensure crisis hotline calls get answered, emergency shelters remain open, and victims have the ability to receive counseling, said Joye Frost, Acting Director for OVC. We remain committed to victims and providing them the support they need.Acting Director Frost announced the funding in her remarks to more than 900 federal, state, and local representatives attending the National Center for Victims of Crimes 2010 National Conference in New Orleans, La.The conference, September 14 16, is co-hosted by OVC, the United States Attorney's Office in the Eastern District of Louisiana, the New Orleans Family Justice Center, the Metropolitan Center for Women and Children, and the Louisiana Foundation Against Sexual Assault.The $610 million in funding for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2010 VOCA formula grants comes from the Crime Victims Fund, which is overseen by OVC. The Crime Victims Fund is unique in that it is comprised of fines, penalty assessments, and bail forfeitures collected from convicted federal criminals. The state compensation programs reimburse victims and their families directly for expenses related to their victimization, including medical and mental health costs, and funeral and burial expenses. The Crime Victims Fund also enables state victim assistance programs to support local efforts such as crisis intervention, emergency shelters and transportation, counseling, and criminal justice system advocacy. A list of the FY 2010 Crime Victims Fund Compensation and Assistance Allocations is available at: http://www.ovc.gov/fund/cvfa2010.html.OVC also funds training and technical assistance programs, and awards discretionary grants to support efforts to address elder abuse, trafficking in persons, identity theft, sexual assault, child abuse, and assisting victims in tribal communities. More information about OVC, its resources for crime victims, and its funding for victim assistance and compensation programs is available at: www.ovc.gov/.###The Office of Justice Programs (OJP), headed by Assistant Attorney General Laurie O. Robinson, provides federal leadership in developing the nations capacity to prevent and control crime, administer justice, and assist victims. OJP has seven components: the Bureau of Justice Assistance; the Bureau of Justice Statistics; the National Institute of Justice; the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention; the Office for Victims of Crime; the Community Capacity Development Office, and the Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking. More information about OJP can be found at www.ojp.gov.Read official release
09.14.2010	Members of the Texas Republican Congressional delegation, led by Congressman Michael C. Burgess (R-Lewisville), today introduced legislation to repeal language in last months education funding bill that discriminates against only the state of Texas, and could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of the federal education funding.The legislation calls to strike the paragraph, which was written and inserted by Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett, that calls for Texas to make additional requirements beyond what all other states are required to make in order to qualify for the funding. These additional requirements are not only inequitable, but according to Texas officials, would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. Further, requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements under the section titled Additional Requirements For The State Of Texas that no other states are required to make puts Texas schoolchildren at an unfair advantage.On August 6, 2010, all 22 Republican members of the Texas Congressional delegation, including Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, wrote to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to strike the Doggett language. The lawmakers wrote, this amendment singles out only the State of Texasand no other state in the nation is subject to these additional requirementsthe House language only punishes Texas students and teachers. Unfortunately the language was not stripped, and consequently, on September 9, 2010, Texas application for the $830 million in education funding was denied by the U.S. Department of Education. Texas Republicans joining Burgess in introducing the legislation are: Congressman Joe BartonCongressman Kevin BradyCongressman John CarterCongressman Michael ConawayCongressman John CulbersonCongressman Louie GohmertCongresswoman Kay GrangerCongressman Ralph HallCongressman Jeb HensarlingCongressman Michael McCaulCongressman Randy NeugebauerCongressman Pete OlsonCongressman Ron PaulCongressman Ted PoeCongressman Pete SessionsCongressman Lamar SmithCongressman Mac ThornberrySenators Hutchison and Cornyn introduced the Senate version to repeal Doggetts language, S. 3768, yesterday in the Senate.# # #
08.18.2010	Last night, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) proudly presented the family of the late Thomas Truxton Reynolds with a long overdue honor at a special ceremony recognizing his outstanding service in World War II.In addition to receiving the Bronze Star, Mr. Reynolds was posthumously awarded the following awards: Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal WWII Victory Medal Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award Honorable Service Lapel Button WWIIMr. Reynolds wife, Thelma Reynolds, and his family accepted the awards on his behalf. Thomas Truxton Reynolds entered into active service on March 11, 1945, immediately after induction at the age of 22. He served in the 4th infantry division, 22nd Regiment, 3rd Battalion, L Company.During his service, he was responsible for routing, capturing, and destroying enemy forces in fortified positions. Mr. Reynolds participated in the Invasion of Normandy, landing on Utah Beach, the Hedge-row fighting in Normandy, the Breakout of St. Lo, the Liberation of Paris, the Battle of Huertgen Forest, and the Battle of the Bulge.
08.10.2010	Reps. Maloney and Poe introduce bill to help reduce DNA rape kit backlog-- Bill would fund audits of localities testing backlogs and establish web-based registry to track data associated with rape kit DNA samples --WASHINGTON, DC Today, U.S. Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced the Sexual Assault Forensic Evidence Registry (SAFER) Act, H.R. 6085, with Reps. Laura Richardson (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Bart Gordon (D-TN) as co-sponsors.This new bill aims to reduce the rape-kit portion of the nationwide DNA sample processing backlog by providing grants to a locality to fund an audit of rape kits waiting for processing, the hiring and/or training of staff handling the backlog, and the uploading of data on every individual rape kit into a national web-based registry. It also requires the Attorney General to report on best practices for testing and using DNA evidence in criminal investigations of sexual assault.Reports of rape-kit processing backlogs have occurred across the country, despite substantial funding for processing of DNA samples available from the Department of Justice under the Debbie Smith Act, Rep. Maloney said. The reality is that rape kits and other DNA samples are not getting processed fast enough in too many places. Its not like CSI where DNA samples are tested within hours of the crime. The provisions of this bill will help address that.With this legislation, we can obtain the data needed to accurately track whether a backlog exists and how bad it is-- and bring the power of web-based transparency to local law enforcement. Citizens and rape victims will be able to see with a few clicks the full contours of local DNA processing status. Its Government 2.0 applied to this most heinous of crimes: rape. The SAFER Act allows us to get a handle on the size and scope of backlogs that exist throughout this country and bring transparency to the testing process, said Rep. Poe. Law enforcement agencies cannot process kits fast enough, and as a result, rapists are walking free. Through the creation of a national registry, law enforcement, citizens and crime victims alike will be able to track rape kits through the testing process. Justice requires diligence and it is my hope that this legislation will increase the efforts of law enforcement divisions throughout the country as they seek to serve their communities and apprehend, and convict, those who commit these despicable crimes.The bill was hailed by Scott Berkowitz, founder and President of RAINN (Rape, Abuse, & Incest National Network). This bill will help us shine a light on the remaining backlog, and give victims easy access to data on the status of their case, Berkowitz said. Rep. Maloney, who championed the Debbie Smith Act-- the most important anti-rape legislation in history-- and Rep. Poe, founder and co-chair of the Victims Rights Caucus, are once again fighting on behalf of rape victims with the introduction of the SAFER Act, the vital next step in our efforts to eliminate the backlog of untested DNA evidence. ###Background: Rep. Maloney authored legislation, the Debbie Smith Act, which passed as part of the Justice for All Act of 2004, authorizing the necessary funding to start processing the national DNA backlog through the creation of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program. Despite Congress appropriating hundreds of millions of dollars since 2005 under Debbie Smith, backlogs continue to persist. This legislation would create a new purpose under existing law to help reduce the backlogs in both law enforcement and crime labs and give victims a way to track the progress of the processing of the DNA sample related to their case.
08.03.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement today in response to the fatal drunken-driving accident caused by an illegal Bolivian national in Prince William County, Virginia that killed Sister Denise Mosier and injured two others: How many lives have to be lost at the hands of people illegally in our country before our federal government takes action? Governments first duty is to protect its citizens and they continue to ignore the problems of illegal immigration and a wide-open border. As a result, American people are continuing to be the victims of crimes committed by people that should not be here in the first place. This criminal had already been identified as an illegal, arrested for two prior DUIs, yet the federal government let him go. This is not justice. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of Sister Mosier. On Monday, 23-year old Bolivian national Carlos Montano, was charged with killing a 66-year old Catholic Nun and injuring two others in an automobile accident Sunday morning in Prince William County Virginia. Authorities have reported that Montano is illegally in the United States and has a record of previous motor vehicle violations, including two previous DUIs, where he, according to court records, served 20 days in jail. Montano was detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) after an arrest in 2008. However, he was released after agreeing to appear at a deportation hearing. Due to backlog, his hearing has yet to occur. He has been charged with involuntary manslaughter and drunken-driving, his third offense in five years. Higher-level homicide charges are pending. Congressman Poe served as a judge and prosecutor in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. He currently serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.
08.03.2010	A U.S. District Judge in Richmond, Virginia, denied a U.S. Justice Department request to throw out the State of Virginias lawsuit suit over the healthcare bill, rejecting arguments from the federal government that the state had no right to sue. The ruling clears the way to allow states to challenge the authority of the federal government to force individuals to buy health insurance.Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement:The Constitution doesn't give the federal government the authority to force citizens to buy anything whether it is health insurance or a box of donuts, said Poe. I applaud the decision of the federal judges ruling giving the State of Virginia the legal authority to sue the federal government for overstepping their legal boundaries. The sweeping healthcare legislation far exceeds the taxing authority of the federal government set forth by our Constitution. The American people have overwhelmingly disapproved of the government mandates included in this bill and todays ruling is a victory for the people.The lawsuit was filed by Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli in response to the healthcare bill. In the complaint, the State of Virginia stated the federal government does not have authority under the Constitutions "Commerce Clause" to force American citizens into purchasing a healthcare plan. The Commerce Clause gives the federal government the authority to "regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States."
08.02.2010	Attorney General Eric Holder Speaks at the National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction AnnouncementAlexandria, Va. ~ Monday, August 2, 2010Thank you, Ernie [Allen], and thank you all for being here. Im pleased to be joined by several key leaders and partners in the federal government s fight to protect our children from exploitation and abuse: Deputy Attorney General Gary Grindler, FBI Executive Assistant Director T.J. Harrington, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Immigration and Customs Enforcement Alonzo Pena, Chief Postal Inspector Guy Cottrell and U.S. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz . We are also joined by Melissa, a courageous young woman who s here to share her own story of surviving abuse and to help us shine a light on the threats that our kids face and the responsibilities that we must fulfill.Today marks an imp ortant step forward in meeting these responsibilities and taking our fight against child exploitation and sexual abuse to the next level. This morning, the Justice Department submitted to Congress the first-ever National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction. In developing this Strategy, we solicited ideas and sought expertise from advocates, victims, law enforcement officers, policymakers, and partners at every level of government and across the international community. Many of these partners are here today, and Im grateful for their contributions and ongoing engagement. With their help, weve created a Strategy that provides a comprehensive assessment of the threats at hand, as well as the effectiveness of current efforts to combat child exploitation and abuse. Most important, this new Strategy outlines our goals and priorities going forward and details new ways we plan to improve our work, broaden our impact, and build on the progress thats been made in recent years.Since the Justice Department launched the Project Safe Childhood initiative in 2006, investigations and prosecutions of child exploitation crimes have increased dramatically. Unfortunately, weve also seen an historic rise in the distribution of child pornography, in the number of images being shared online and in the level of violence associated with child exploitation and sexual abuse crimes. Tragically, the only place weve seen a decrease is in the age of victims.This is unacceptable. And although weve made meaningful progress in protecting children across the country in rural areas, inner cities, tribal communities and online and although weve brought a record number of offenders to justice in recent years, it is time to renew our commitment to this work. It is time to intensify our efforts. This new Strategy provides the roadmap necessary to do just that to streamline our education, prevention and prosecution activities; to improve information sharing and collaboration; and to make the most effective use of limited resources. It also details specific steps that are being and will be taken to reduce and overcome current threats. For example, the Justice Department will update the Project Safe Childhood website to improve reporting, information sharing, and public education efforts. And Im pleased to announce that the U.S. Marshals Service is launching a new, nationwide operation targeting the top 500 most dangerous, non-compliant sex offenders.As the Strategy makes clear, we intend to fuse cutting-edge technologies with traditional methods of law enforcement and recovery and to better leverage the capacity of our law enforcements partners, as well as the broad network of nonprofits actively engaged in the fight against child exploitation and abuse.Congress has rightly called for such an approach and for more aggressive enforcement of laws aimed at safeguarding our children and preventing, stopping, and punishing child exploitation crimes. The Justice Department is fully committed to answering this call. But we cannot do it alone. We will be relying on and working closely with the many agencies, organizations, and partners represented here today. Together, we are sending an important message that the U.S. government, and our nations Department of Justice, has never been more committed to protecting our children and to bringing offenders to justice.Not only is this a Department priority, it is also a personal priority. I am committed to this work and to the success of this new Strategy. And, despite difficult circumstances and odds, I am confident that, with this new level of commitment and with this new plan of action we can, and we will, make the progress our children deserve. And, now, Id like to turn things over to Deputy Attorney General, Gary Grindler.Read full release
08.02.2010	Victims Rights Caucus co-chairs, Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), recently introduced H.R. 5870, which will give the State Department the statutory authority to restrict or deny issuance of a passport to registered sex offenders. Federal statute already authorizes the State Department to deny issuance of a passport to individuals who have been convicted of international drug trafficking or who are behind in child support. This bipartisan legislation will give the State Department the authority to, at their discretion, bar the worst of the worst from endangering the safety of children overseas.According to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), each year about 10,000 sex offenders travel globally, many with the intent to engage in unlawful activities such as sex tourism or human trafficking. A million people a year become victims of human trafficking fifty percent of them are children.Slavery is alive and unfortunately very well in this world today," said Rep. Poe. "We see it in the form of human trafficking, sex trafficking, and slavery of children that are taken from different parts of the world. They exploit these children for money and unfortunately it is a very lucrative business. This legislation aims to address this issue and safeguard our children. In June of this year, a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study revealed that the State Department issued thousands of passports to registered sex offenders in 2008. A sample of 30 case studies revealed that, at the time of criminal offense, many of these offenders held positions of public trust, such as a health care provider, school teacher, a NASA engineer and an owner of a HUD Section 8 property. The bipartisan Victims Rights Caucus was formed in 2006 by Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20). Together they work to be a voice for victims rights in Congress.
07.30.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that he filed the Offshore Lease Fairness Act that would mandate that 50 percent of offshore leasing revenue for new leases go to the coastal state adjacent to the oil lease. Currently, Gulf Coast states only receive anywhere from 27 percent 37.5 percent of lease revenue. In some situations, it can be even less. The second highest single source of federal revenue each year comes from offshore drilling at $6 billion per year, said Poe. Those of us along the Gulf Coast have to bear the economic brunt of the oil spill and the devastating moratorium, it is time that we also receive our fair share of the revenues as well. In just the first six months of the drilling moratorium, Texas and Louisiana alone will lose an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 jobs just in this industry, not counting all the related industries that are onshore, continued Poe. The inadequate federal response to the clean-up and containment of the oil spill has caused additional financial damage and this legislation aims to put money back in our state coffers to be spent by the state not the federal government. Congressman Poe was joined by bipartisan Gulf State Members as original cosponsors:Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX-06), Rep. Jo Bonner (R-AL-01), Rep. Charles Boustany (R-La-07), Rep. Bobby Bright (D-AL-02), Rep. Cao (R-LA-02), Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX-22), Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX-14) and Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA-01).The Offshore Lease Fairness Act does not mandate that coastal states spend the money on shoreline mitigation projects or anything else, the money would go directly to the general fund of coastal states, and they could spend at their discretion. This money could be spent on transportation, education, shoreline mitigation, or any other purpose. H.R. 5973 The Offshore Lease Fairness Act:(1) increase the revenue shared with States under the OCS Lands Act (dealing with the "8(g) zone", the zone that extends three miles from the coast line) to 50 percent for leases entered into after enactment of this Act; and(2) expand the applicability of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (GOMESA) to new leases for all lands on the Outer Continental Shelf (as opposed to only lands in the Gulf of Mexico), and increase the revenue shared with states under that Act to 50 percent for leases entered into after enactment of this Act, without the accompanying restrictions GOMESA puts on the way states may spend that 50 percent (e.g., on coastal maintenance, etc.).# # #
07.28.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced that he recently facilitated the process to secure six retired US Army Humvees for Texas Border Sheriffs. The Humvees were obtained through the Department of Defense (DOD) Reutilization and Marketing Service program that manages the DOD surplus property sales program.Our border sheriffs are out-manned, out-gunned and out-equipped, said Poe. Since the federal government continues to fail us, I am doing everything I can to help them protect the border and the people of the great State of Texas. In keeping in the tradition of the 2nd District of Texas, like Charlie Wilson, we found a way to get the job done.The acquirement of these vehicles was at no cost to the taxpayer. Property in the surplus property sales program is first offered for reutilization within the DOD, transfer to other federal agencies, or donation to state and local governments and other qualified organizations.The following Texas sheriffs departments have met the requirements and have been approved by DOD to receive the surplus property: Brewster County, Cameron County, Hudspeth County, Jeff Davis County, Maverick County, and Webb County. Cameron County Sheriff Omar Lucio thanked Congressman Poe for his continued support. On behalf of the people of Cameron County, the Commissioners Court, and the entire staff of the Cameron County Sheriffs Department, we would like to express our sincerest gratitude in the thoughtfulness of making available an extremely needed Humvee vehicle. I cannot emphasis enough the need for such a vehicle in our county which is next to the Mexico border. This is just the first of many more opportunities that I plan to continue to pursue to serve our law enforcement agencies, said Poe. There is no excuse for any United States law enforcement agency to have inferior resources than the enemy. The Texas Sheriffs do an outstanding job with the little that they are given and I will continue every effort to see that they get what they need to do the job the federal government wont.In addition to the office of Congressman Ted Poe, this effort was a cooperative of the following agencies: The Department of Defense, the US Army Depot at Red River, Texas, Texas Department of Safety, and various Texas border Sheriffs Departments and supporting agencies. Photos of the Humvees available here,12 3. (Courtesy of US Army Depot at Red River, Texas)Congressman Ted Poe has been the leading advocate in Congress for increased border security. Most recently, Congressman Poe and Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ-08) urged the administration to grant requests from the governors of our nations border states for National Guard troops to be deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border. Specifically requesting that any National Guard troops that are deployed be armed and allowed to defend themselves if fired upon; and upon request, assist in defending Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement officers.Poe regularly travels to the southern border and is recognized by the Texas Border Sheriffs Coalition as a top supporter of law enforcement and border security. Congressman Poe served as a judge and prosecutor in Houston, Texas, for 30 years; currently serves on the Judiciary Committee, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security; a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus.
07.27.2010	Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) and Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA) attended the signing ceremony of the Cruise Vessel Security and Safety Act at the White House today. Both members of Congress and the President were joined by Laurie Dishman, a Sacramento, California resident and a constituent of Rep. Matsuis, who wrote to her Representative after being sexually assaulted on a cruise ship and asked for help.This bill, authored by Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Sen. John Kerry (D-MA), received broad bipartisan support. As founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Rep. Poe was a cosponsor and strong advocate for this legislation. Every year cruise line companies carry over 10 million Americans to and from American ports. The cruise lines promise Americans safety, security, fun, and relaxation aboard the ships. But as we have seen, safety is not something the cruise lines are always prepared to guarantee, said Poe. The bill requires cruise ships to strengthen security measures and report alleged crimes. Some of the changes commercial travelers should expect to see are rails located no less than 42-inches above the cabin deck, peep holes on every cabin door, technology to detect whether a passenger has fallen overboard, video surveillance and time sensitive key technologies.The bill also cracks down on crime. It requires all cruise vessels to maintain a supply of medications to prevent sexually transmitted disease after sexual assault, have equipment for conducting medical examination in case of a sexual assault, and have at least one medical staff worker certified in emergency, family practice or internal medicine on the vessel at all times.Congressman Ted Poe serves on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and is founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in Washington, DC.
07.27.2010	Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10) were joined by Rep. Dan Burton (IN-05), Rep. Bob Inglis (SC-04) and Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) in sending a letter today to Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Howard Berman, requesting that the committee launch a full investigation into the prisoner-transfer agreement of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi. Reports have alleged that British Petroleum (BP) lobbied the British government for al-Megrahis inclusion in a prisoner transfer agreement with Libya in order to facilitate their $900 million oil-and-gas exploration deal off Libyas coast. Former British Justice minister, Jack Straw, has admitted that the BP deal was a consideration in his review of the case.The letter additionally focuses on the most recent allegations indicating that both the British and U.S. government were in contact with Scottish officials overseeing al-Megrahis release. British officials indicated that his release would be beneficial to British commercial interests while American officials neglected to offer clear and unambiguous opposition to any release or transfer of the prisoner. The allegations that a company used their influence to secure the release of a mass murderer in exchange for financial gain are an affront to justice and should not go ignored, said Rep. Ted Poe. Even more serious are the allegations that the United States government did not adamantly oppose the wheeling and dealing to free this terrorist killer that took the lives of 187 Americans."This is a slap on the face to the victims of Pan Am 103," said Rep. Michael McCaul, Ranking member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. "It would be the equivalent of the United States releasing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the mastermind of 9/11."Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi was the only person convicted in the 1998 Lockerbie airline bombing over Scotland. This terrorist attack killed 287 individuals, including 189 Americans. Last year, the Scottish courts ruled to release al-Megrahi after doctors informed the government he was likely to die within months of prostate cancer. However, al-Megrahi is currently alive and well in Libya.Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittees. To read the letter sent to Chairman Howard Berman, click here.
07.22.2010	Secretary Napolitano Launches First-Of-Its-Kind Campaign to Combat Human TraffickingRelease Date: July 22, 2010For Immediate ReleaseOffice of the Press SecretaryContact: 202-282-8010Fact Sheet: DHS Blue Campaign Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano today launched the Blue Campaigna DHS-wide initiative to combat human trafficking through enhanced public awareness, victim assistance programs, and law enforcement training and initiatives.The battle against human trafficking is a shared responsibility involving the Departments federal, state, local and tribal law enforcement partners, non-profit and non-governmental organizations, governments around the world and communities across the nation, said Secretary Napolitano. With the Blue Campaign, we seek to shine a light on a crime that thrives in the shadows, bring traffickers to justice, and assist victims in communities across the nation.The Blue Campaign was officially launched today by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Alan Bersin, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director Alejandro Mayorkas, Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Deputy Director Ken Keene and Alice Hill, Senior Counselor to Secretary Napolitanounderscoring the unified effort to prevent human trafficking, assist victims and hold traffickers accountable by bringing together the Departments diverse resources and expertise under one initiative.To help citizens learn to identify and properly report indicators of human trafficking, the Department is launching public outreach tools that include social media, multilingual public awareness campaigns, and a new, comprehensive one-stop website for the Departments efforts to combat human trafficking at www.dhs.gov/humantrafficking.The Blue Campaign also features new training initiatives for law enforcement and DHS personnel, enhanced victim assistance efforts, and the creation of new partnerships and interagency collaborationincluding the deployment of additional victim assistance specialists and specialized training for law enforcement personnel.The Blue Campaigns name and symbol were chosen by the Department to evoke the thin blue line of law enforcement, as well as the global anti-human trafficking symbols the Blue Blindfold, produced by the United Kingdom Human Trafficking Center, and the Blue Heart, developed by the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime, to help raise international awareness about this issue.A fact sheet detailing the numerous aspects of the campaign across the Department is available here. For more information, visit www.dhs.gov/humantrafficking.###
07.21.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) continues to offer his full support for the TransCanada Gulf Coast Expansion Project (Keystone XL Pipeline) that is expected to create thousands of direct and indirect jobs in southeast Texas. Estimated costs of the Phase III of the project that will include Texas is $7 billion.As a result of the continued offshore drilling moratorium, we are facing an uncertain economic future all along the Gulf Coast, said Poe. The 2nd Congressional district is the petrochemical capital of Texas and our economy is tied directly to this industry. The Keystone pipeline project is not only vital to our local economy, it is also necessary to our national energy needs. We cannot allow Washington to continue to use their politics of panic to shut down the entire energy industry.The fact remains, we need oil, continued Poe. While I support an all-of-the-above approach, we are still dependent on crude oil and we cannot ignore our present needs while waiting for alternatives. We can continue to rely on unfriendly foreign nations or we can work with our long-time allies to the north to supply over 1.4 million barrels of oil a day. As the administration continues to hold our own domestic production hostage, we must immediately look for additional ways to safely meet our energy needs.As with any project of this magnitude, every effort must be made to follow the letter of the law to ensure safety and protection to the environment. Southeast Texas is no stranger to pipeline projects and has operated them safely for years. Pipelines are a far safer way to transport crude, eliminating the greater potential for accidents by tanking it from overseas. In his latest efforts, Congressman Poe sent a letter to Secretary Hillary Clinton stating his support for the project and requests an update on the permitting status. The letter additionally states: This project is vitally important to the energy security of the United States, and I encourage you to approve the permit without further delay.In addition, Poe also joined 35 members of Congress on a delegation letter to Secretary Clinton urging the Department of State to move forward with the permitting process for the pipeline project as planned.The Texas and Oklahoma portion of the pipeline still awaits approval from the State Department. Since the project crosses an international border, the Department of State is ultimately responsible for issuing the permit.In a letter to Gary G. Mar, QC, Minister-Counsellor of Alberta, Canada, Congressman Poe again offered his full support: This project will be extremely important to the 2nd Congressional District of Texas, as it is home to over 23% of the refining capacity in the United States. The oil from Canada that will be refined from this pipeline will provide the United States with a reliable and affordable source of energy for many years to come.The proposed Keystone Gulf Coast Expansion Project is an approximate 1,661-mile, 36-inch crude oil pipeline that would begin at Hardisty, Alberta and extend southeast through Saskatchewan, Montana, South Dakota and Nebraska. It would incorporate the 298-mile portion of the Keystone Pipeline (Phase II) through Nebraska, Kansas to serve markets at Cushing, Oklahoma before continuing through Oklahoma to a delivery point near existing terminals in Nederland, Texas to serve the Port Arthur, Texas marketplace.Keystone plans to first construct the 435-miles of new pipeline in Oklahoma and Texas. It is anticipated this third phase of Keystone would start construction in the first quarter of 2011 and be complete by the fourth quarter of 2011.Total project costs of the TransCanada Pipeline project is estimated at over $12 billion. To view a copy of the letters, click the links below:Letter to SecretaryHillary ClintonLetter to Minister-Counsellor MarLetter to the U.S. Department of State
07.20.2010	On Monday, U.S. Rep. Ted Poe joined Houston Police Chief Charles A. McClelland, Jr. and representatives from Houston City Council in unveiling the Houston Police Departments latest training platforma decommissioned Boeing 737. This aircraft is the newest tactical training ground for HPD and regional law enforcement agencies.The decommissioned aircraft was obtained from the Department of Defense (DOD) through the efforts of Rep. Poe as part of the Texas 1033 Surplus Property Program. Once used to train navigators at Randolph Air Force Base in San Antonio, the plane had been scheduled to be mothballed after 37 years of military service. HPD is the first law enforcement agency in the United States to be granted a decommissioned, fully functional aircraft from the DOD. The men and women that wear the badge are a cut above the rest, said Congressman Poe. When I was elected to Congress, I continued my long-time support for law enforcement and made advocating for them a top priority. This project is a perfect example of all levels of government working together to make sure that our local law enforcement community has the equipment they need to keep the rest of us safe. I commend the Houston Police Department for the selfless service they perform each and every day.The acquisition of this aircraft is an integral part of a larger vision for HPDs training facility. It is our desire to expand our training platforms to provide officers with a variety of sites and situations where they can train. We want to prepare our officers for as many different situations as practical, said HPD Assistant Chief Vicki King, Tactical Support Command. The aircraft will also be available to several regional law enforcement agencies for training, depending upon the agencys responsibilities.
07.06.2010	The federal government continues to be the second disaster in the Gulf. The clean-up response has been completely inadequate and now we are seeing the results of the long drawn out delay. Latest reports have not determined whether the tar balls showing up in Texas have made their way with the current or from a ship that has carried them our way. Nonetheless, its been more than 80 days and we are going to eventually see more of this if the federal government doesnt cut through the red tape and get this under control. This is an emergency situation and its long past time for Washington to realize it.
06.28.2010	Congressmen Ted Poe (R-TX) and Gary Peters (D-MI) announced today that 338 bipartisan Members of Congress have joined them in sending aletter to President Obama expressing Congress strong support for Israels right to defend itself and unequivocally reiterate that the United States stands behind our longtime friend and ally. I would like to thank my colleague Rep. Peters for his leadership and the overwhelming support we have received in Congress on this important issue, said Poe. With more signatures than any other congressional letter supporting Israel, we are sending an unmistakable message that the United States must make it clear to Israel and the rest of the world that Israel had the absolute right to defend itself in this situation and support Israels blockade, continued Poe. Our letter urges the White House to ensure that this is clear to all concerned throughout the world, especially Hamas and Hezbollah.The letter additionally urges the president to remain steadfast in the defense of Israel in the face of the international communitys rush to unfairly judge and condemn Israel before the United Nations Security Council and continue to use our influence and, if necessary, veto power to prevent any biased or one-sided resolutions from passing.I am dismayed at the selective outrage of the world community. Though Israel faces constant terrorist threats from Hamas, rocket attacks from Hezbollah and a growing nuclear threat from Iran, the world is often silent or indifferent, said Rep. Peters. Israel needs to know that its ally the United States does and will always stand firmly in support of Israels right to self-defense. I am pleased that 336 members of Congress have joined me in signing this bipartisan letter supporting Israels right to self defense and asking President Obama to continue to use U.S. influence to prevent anti-Israeli bias.Members also stated that the U.S. should make every effort to thwart international condemnation and focus the international community on the crimes of the Iran-backed Hamas leadership against Israel and the Palestinian people. As Israel faces increased threats, most recently from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, which announced that it could provide a naval escort to any additional aid ships wishing to reach Gaza, the United States must continue to stand by Israel, one of our strongest allies.The letter came in response to the May 2010 flotilla incident. After repeated warnings, Israeli forces intercepted a flotilla attempting to break through its naval blockade of Gaza. Over the course of its blockade, Israeli forces have diverted nine such flotillas, all without incident. The same was true for five of the six ships in this flotilla. They were commandeered peacefully and directed to the Israeli port of Ashdod. However, those aboard the largest ship, the Mavi Marmara, violently resisted. With their lives threatened, Israeli forces used necessary force as an act of self-defense and of last resort.The letter was supported by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the American Jewish Committee, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and United Jewish Communities. In supporting the Poe/Peters letter, AIPAC spokesman Josh Block said, At a time when so many countries are seeking to unfairly stigmatize and isolate the Jewish State, challenge its right to self-defense and judge it by a double standard, this letter serves one critical goal: demonstrating unswerving American support for our allies in Israel and their right to self-defense, while making clear to all concerned that as the leaders of the free world, the United States of America will not allow Israel to be attacked, isolated or slandered. We strongly applaud this effort. William Daroff of the Jewish Federations of North America said, [We] appreciate your efforts to urge the United States to continue to actively to defend Israel in international bodies such as the United Nations Security Council, and the international community as a whole. (Click here to view a letter of support from the Jewish Federations).Chairman Alan Solow and Executive Vice Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations added, We are grateful to Representatives Ted Poe and Gary Peters and the leaders in the House as well as to the representatives who have signed or will sign on to show their support for this statement. Similar to the letter authored by Senators Reid and McConnell, this statement illustrates the deep commitment of the American people to the special U.S.-Israel relationship and to Israels need to protect its citizens from terrorism in all forms. (Click here to view a news release from the Conference in support of the Peters/Poe letter).Jason Isaacson of the American Jewish Committee said, [T]he U.S. should stand firm at the UN Security Council against biased or one-sided resolutions presented to that body, and make every effort to thwart international condemnation and focus the international community on the crimes of the Iran-backed Hamas leadership against Israel and the Palestinian people. (Click here to view a letter of support from AJC).Click here to view a PDF copy of the letter with all signatories.The full text of the letter sent to President Obama follows below: June 29, 2010The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President:We are writing to express our strong support for Israels right to defend itself. We believe that it is in the national security interest of the United States to unequivocally reiterate that the United States stands behind its longtime friend and ally. Further, we urge you to remain steadfast in the defense of Israel in the face of the international communitys rush to unfairly judge and condemn Israel in international fora such as the United Nations Security Council. We urge you to continue to use U.S. influence and, if necessary, veto power to prevent any biased or one-sided resolutions from passing.On May 31, after repeated warnings, Israeli forces intercepted a flotilla attempting to break through its naval blockade of Gaza. The blockade of Gaza was instituted to stop terrorists from smuggling weapons into Gaza to murder innocent civilians. Since Israels disengagement from Gaza in 2005, Hamas has fired more than 10,000 rockets and mortars at Israels civilian population. Acknowledging the seriousness of the problem, Egypt also initiated its own blockade of Gaza along the Rafah crossing in 2007.Over the course of its blockade, Israeli forces have diverted nine such flotillas, all without incident. The same was true for five of the six ships in this flotilla. They were commandeered peacefully and directed to the Israeli port of Ashdod. However, those aboard the largest ship, Mavi Marmara, violently resisted. As dramatic video depicts, the passengers on the ship attacked Israeli soldiers with clubs, metal rods, and iron bars as they attempted to board the ship. The soldiers were brutally beaten and one even thrown off the top deck. With their lives threatened, Israeli forces used necessary force as an act of self-defense and of last resort.The several dozen who attacked the Israeli soldiers were not peaceful aid workers, but extremists who sought to aid the Iran-backed terrorist Hamas regime in Gaza. Days before, as broadcast on al-Jazeera, they proclaimed their willingness to be martyrs for the destruction of Israel, revealing a sinister element of premeditated violence. Furthermore, as confirmed by the State Department and intelligence agencies around the world, the Turkish aid group that sent out the flotilla, Insani Yardim Vakfi (IHH), has met with senior officials of recognized terrorist groups over the last three years. If the flotilla was truly intent on bringing aid to Gaza, it could have done that. Israeli officials repeatedly offered their ports to harbor the ships and disperse the aid so that it would not go into the hands of corrupt Hamas officials but directly to the people living in Gaza. But the flotilla refused these overtures, instead revealing their intent to break the blockade and sail unchecked into Gaza. As you know, Hamas even refused the aid that was aboard the Mavi Marmara after it was inspected by Israeli officials.The U.S. should make every effort to thwart international condemnation and focus the international community on the crimes of the Iran-backed Hamas leadership against Israel and the Palestinian people. As Israel faces increased threats, most recently from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, which announced that it could provide a naval escort to any additional aid ships wishing to reach Gaza, the United States must continue to stand by Israel, one of our strongest allies.We look forward to working with you on these vital issues affecting the U.S.-Israel relationship.Sincerely,TED POE GARY PETERSMember of CongressMember of CongressTEXAS MICHIGAN(336 more signatories)
06.23.2010	While frustration was the obvious culprit in this situation, the President is certainly within his rights to fire someone not supportive of his policies. Gen. Petraeus has the tenacity of Gen. Patton and I feel certain that given the authority, he will be successful. I encourage the President to refocus on winning the war and retreat from the status quo as we move forward with new leadership.
06.22.2010	Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced a bipartisan resolution expressing opposition to Irans nuclear weapons program and human rights abuses. The resolution also reaffirms Congress support for Iranian citizens struggling for freedom and calls for fair, democratic elections in Iran.Since the fraudulent elections, hundreds of thousands of Iranians have taken to the streets in protest, said Poe. They are fighting to be free and many giving their lives for democracy. At this critical time, they need to know that the United States, the leader of the free world, still believes that the pursuit of inalienable rights is worth the sacrifice. I urge my colleagues to send a strong message to the Iranian people that we condemn the human rights violations taking place in their country and that the United States will stand with them in their fight for freedom.Iran's post-election crackdown following the disputed presidential election on June 12, 2009, was a human rights disaster. Iran's Revolutionary Guards, Basij militia, and police arbitrarily arrested thousands of peaceful protesters and dissidents, including students, women's rights activists, lawyers, and journalists in a clear effort to intimidate critics and stifle dissent. Following the anniversary of Irans disputed presidential election, Congress must reaffirm its commitment to supporting democracy and freedom around the world, said Costa. Irans repeated defiance to the global communitys calls for disarmament is unacceptable. Congress must respond with additional sanctions and unified opposition to this abusive regime. Irans actions threaten our allies and the stability of the entire regionAlong with expressing opposition to Irans weapons program and human rights violations, the resolution denounces the ongoing violence against the Iranian people by the Government of Iran and pro-government militias. The resolution also reaffirms the universality of individual rights and the importance of democratic and fair elections.Reps. Poe and Costa both serve on the Foreign Affairs Committees and are co-chairs of the Victims Rights Caucus. Poe and Costa were joined by Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Howard Berman (D-CA), Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Rep. Gary Ackerman (D-NY) and Rep. Dan Burton (R-IN) in introducing the resolution.
06.16.2010	Yesterday I joined my colleagues from the Gulf Coast in a bipartisan call to remove the six month moratorium on deepwater drilling. Each of the 17 members there personally understand the toll the oil spill and the continued ban means to the economy of our states.Last night the President said that he would do everything he can to help the people of the Gulf Coast, yet he indicated that the ban will remain in effect. This will have devastating and long term effects on our lives.There is no reason we must halt drilling for six months. Never have we shut down an entire industry for the mistakes of one company. We cannot allow this accident to be the window to implement a political agenda and force the administration's cap and trade legislation on the American people. Offshore drilling is part of our lives on the Gulf Coast. It is intertwined in all that we do. Folks in Washington are misinformed if they think this will only impact the workers on the rigs.The United States has the energy resources to meet our needs. It is inaccurate to claim that we have "run out of places to drill." What we have run out of is places we are allowed to drill and if the ban continues we will run out of companies and workers to do it as well.Its ironic that the comparison to America's technological advancements throughout history to land a man on the moon was used. It appears that this administration has the same plans for offshore drilling as they do for NASA: giving up our future to foreign countries.
06.15.2010	Bipartisan members of the Gulf Coast Congressional delegation will hold a press conference to call for an end to the current moratorium on new deepwater drilling. Congressional members are unified in their support for responsible offshore drilling and continued development of our natural resources. Members of the Gulf Coast delegation will be meeting with Interior Secretary Salazar on Wednesday of this week to discuss the current moratorium and its impact on our region. Congressman Poe (R-TX-02) was joined today by Congressman Charlie Melancon (D-LA-03), Rep. Charles Boustany (LA-07), Rep. Gregg Harper (MS-03), Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Michael Conaway (TX-11), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04), Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Rodney Alexander (LA-05), Rep. Bill Cassidy (LA-06), Rep. John Fleming (LA-04) and Rep. Steve Scalise (LA-01).Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement:We cannot as a nation afford to let Washington shut down our offshore energy development. Reforms must be made to ensure the safest working and environmental standards are met, but we cannot overlook the hundreds of other companies that have safely drilled offshore for the last three decades. When a plane crashes we dont shut down the airline industry for six months. We cannot afford to shut down our offshore drilling industry either.17 percent of our domestic oil supply comes from Deepwater offshore drilling in the Gulf and 5 percent of our domestic natural gas supply. This gives a whole new meaning to freezing to death in the dark.In just the first six months, Texas and Louisiana will lose an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 jobs just in this industry, not counting all the related industries that are onshore. We will lose the offshore industry the same way we lost our domestic manufacturing industries in the 70s and 80s. Once its gone, it never comes back. In addition, in an effort to immediately help Gulf Coast states Congressman Poe announced that he will file legislation to allow states to receive a 50-50 share in the lease revenues generated from offshore drilling in shallow water regions and deepwater regions once the moratorium is lifted. Members of the Gulf Coast delegation expressed their unified concerns. The six-month moratorium that the Department of the Interior has put on deep water drilling in the Gulf has the potential for significant economic damage to the Gulf Coast and throughout the United States. If this drilling moratorium continues for an extended period of time, analysts predict that well over 20,000 existing and potential new jobs will be lost in the Gulf Coast region in the first six months alone. Many offshore drilling companies and suppliers will not be able to survive this six-month period and will either go out of business or move their employees and assets abroad, further crippling Americas energy industry. The second highest single source of federal revenue each year comes from offshore drilling at $6 billion per year. Additionally, reliance on foreign oil puts Americas national security at risk. If it is not coming from off the coast of our shores where we can responsibly oversee the production, it is going to come from abroad, often from the Middle East and other volatile areas of the world.
05.28.2010	Rape Victims Fight Precludes Future Victimizations Washington, D.C., May 28 - The U.S. House of Representatives today adopted an amendment to deny veterans convicted of forcible rape from receiving full military burial honors. The amendment offered by Congressman John Shadegg (AZ-03) arose out of the rape of a young college graduate named Jenny in Tucson, Arizona in 2001 by a serial rapist, James Allen Selby, who was also a military veteran. The amendment was included in the National Defense Authorization Act, which also passed the House today. Under current law, military veterans are entitled to be buried in a veterans or national cemetery, and to receive other honorary emoluments including a military honor guard, a U.S. flag, and a certificate from the President. While Congress banned veterans convicted of a capital crime from receiving these honors following the Oklahoma City bombing by Timothy McVeigh, veterans convicted of forcible rape remain entitled to these honors.Victims of forcible rape deserve better. Current law affording these honors to veterans convicted of rape is an outrage and results in victims and their families being victimized all over again. The amendment which I was able to convince Congress to adopt today will end this practice, said Congressman John Shadegg. In 2001, on Halloween, in Tucson, Arizona, Jenny, a recent college graduate, returned home after work where she was confronted by James Allen Selby. Selby jumped out of a closet, hauled her into the shower, bound her hands and ankles with duct tape, and raped her at knife point. Selby was caught and tried in Pima County. He had raped 10 other women including a nine year old girl. On the morning Selby was to be sentenced, he hanged himself in his jail cell. To the shock of Jenny, her family, and the other victims, Selby was afforded a burial at Fort Sill National Cemetery, with full military benefits, including a military honor guard, a U.S. flag, and a certificate from the President.It demeans the honor of all those who have served this nation to allow a perpetrator of such a heinous crime to be buried alongside Americas heroes in a veterans cemetery, Congressman Shadegg said. In 2007, Congressman Shadegg was approached by Steve Bush to end this practice. Shadegg introduced legislation that year, and each year since called Jennys Law. Both Steve Bush and his daughter Jenny, along with many other victims groups have fought to end this outrageous injustice. Groups including the Military Order of the Purple Heart also support Jennys Law. I am happy to have been able to finally secure passage of Jennys Law and that no rape victim will suffer the pain of watching the individual convicted of raping her be buried in a military cemetery with full military honors, said Congressman Shadegg.
05.28.2010	Rep Michael E. McMahon, a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Middle East and South Asia Subcommittee, sent a letter today to Afghan President Hamid Karzai urging him to include women in his nations upcoming Peace Jirga or national reconciliation talks. Rep. McMahon, who participated in a Congressional Delegation to Afghanistan and Pakistan earlier this month, brought up this issue directly to President Karzai when they met. The letter, which was signed by 18 of Rep. McMahons colleagues in the House, is a follow-up to that conversation.Said Rep. McMahon: Women cannot be excluded from the upcoming national reconciliation talks. Their presence is essential to shaping Afghanistans future. After hearing the concerns from numerous Afghan women and womens rights organizations, I knew this needed to be addressed immediately. Unfortunately, the reluctance of Afghan leaders to comment on the role of women in the upcoming Peace Jirga leaves the door open to the Talbanism of the upcoming reconciliation efforts. Afghan women have played a variety of social and political roles during the last three decades of conflict, including as peace builders. Despite the concerns expressed by numerous women in Afghanistan and human rights activists, the role that Afghan women will play in the reconciliation process still remains unclear. Yet, women will be directly responsible for raising the next generation of Afghanis. For this reason, President Karzai should disallow any compromise on womens issues during this time.The Peace Jirga, which has been rescheduled to June 2, 2010, has been a contentious issue in both Afghanistan and the international community. The presence of Taliban leadership at this meeting has introduced the prospect of yielding on womens issues during negotiations Despite President Karzais commitment during the London Conference to increase womens representation to 20%, there has been no word or action on that commitment to date.The text of Rep. McMahons letter is below. The letters co-signers are Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Bill Delahunt (D-MA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Rush Holt (D-NJ) , Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), E.B. Johnson (D-TX), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Brad Miller (D-NC), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Ed Pastor (D-AZ), Jared Polis (D-CO), Laura Richardson (D-CA). A majority of these Members are part of the Congressional Womens Caucus.May 28, 2010 His Excellency Hamid KarzaiPresidentIslamic Republic of Afghanistan Dear Mr. President: As preparations for your proposed reintegration and reconciliation program moves forward, we applaud your commitment to increase womens representation in the upcoming consultative Peace Jirga to 20 percent and to include women delegates as facilitators in this important event. We take note of the improvements that have been undertaken to improve the situation of women in Afghanistan and remember that before 2002, under Taliban rule, rampant brutality was often accompanied by efforts to steer your country away from the modern age that left Afghans uneducated, impoverished and without hope for a sustainable future. As with most repressive political movements, womens rights were amongst the first to be compromised in this chain of events. We support your commitment, as you noted at the London Conference, to ensuring that womens rights are safeguarded in tomorrows Afghanistan. Through your governments efforts, Afghan women are increasingly taking on leadership roles in their communities, homes and within the government. We take note of the fact that women hold substantive portfolios in your Cabinet and are represented at various levels of your government. In addition, 27 percent of parliamentary seats are now allocated to women, giving them the opportunity to run for high level decision-making positions, including for the office of the presidency. We are encouraged by the progress Afghanistan has made in this sphere. President Karzai, we look to you to ensuring that the rights of all of your citizens are protected in your reintegration and reconciliation efforts. We remain confident that by including Afghan women as well as men in Afghanistans reconstruction and rehabilitation, your country can once again take its rightful place as a prosperous and stable member of the international community. Afghan women have played a vital role during the last three decades of conflict, including as peace builders, and their participation in the upcoming consultative Peace Jirga is a welcome step forward. Sincerely,Michael E. McMahonMember of CongressUnited States of America
05.27.2010	Congressman Poe issued the following statement on todays announcement regarding offshore drilling:"Todays announcement offers some good news to the Gulf Coast President Obama responded to the letter sent by me and 40 other Members of Congress to reverse his decision banning shallow water drilling. But, the unintended consequences of the continued ban on all other drilling are far reaching and has the potential to cause additional widespread economic damage to the Gulf Coast and the entire United States."To read more on this issue in my recent newsletter, click here.
05.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA), Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) have introduced a resolution to call attention to the problem of domestic sex trafficking minors. The resolution is a joint effort between the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, chaired by Congressmen Poe and Costa, and the Human Trafficking Caucus, chaired by Congressman Smith and Congresswoman Maloney.Many of us are aware of the sex trafficking that occurs overseas, but few of us realize that so many American girls are being victimized by this vile crime, said Congressman Ted Poe. This resolution seeks to draw attention to the problem and provide a framework for assistance to the victims, and swift prosecution of pimps and buyers who purchase young girls for sex. I thank my colleagues for working with me to bring attention to this important issue and I urge Congress to support passage of the resolution. It is estimated that 100,000 children are used in prostitution in the United States every year. The Department of Justice additionally estimates that more than 250,000 children are at risk for being trafficked. Most of these children are girls between the ages of 12 and 14. They are sexually exploited for their youth and reusable qualities, routinely raped, beaten into submission and even tattooed like cattle by their pimps. This resolution is the first step, anything we can do to raise awareness of this horrible crime is extremely important, said Dr. Bob Sanborn, Executive Director of Houston-based Children at Risk. Young American girls, children, are being sold and sexually exploited in cities across the U.S. We congratulate Congressmen Poe, Costa, Smith, and Congresswoman Maloney on their leadership and effort to raise awareness and solve this horrendous crime. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Harris County for 30 years. Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus in Washington, DC advocating on behalf of victims in our nations capital. For more information on the VRC, please visit our website: http://vrc.poe.house.gov/
05.14.2010	"As a former prosecutor and judge for 30 years, I believe it is the responsibility of those who make and enforce thelaw, particularly the Attorney General of the United States to read a law before speaking about it. It's only fair to the people and the rule of law to make judgments based on fact. If you are going to try the merits of the Arizona law in the media it seems to me it's important to read it first."
05.12.2010	Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement in response to the acquittal of Navy SEAL Matthew McCabe and fellow SEALs Julio Huertas and Jonathan Keefe:Our SEALs are the best that we have, said Poe. We are forever indebted to these great warriors for their service to American freedom. While I am overly pleased with their acquittal, I think we should give these courageous young men medals and send them out there to capture another terrorist.On May 6, 2010, Navy SEAL Matthew McCabe was found not guilty on all counts. McCabe was charged with assault for allegedly roughing-up Ahmed Hashim Abed, the masterminded behind the gruesome murders of four American contractors in Iraq six years ago. Huertas and Keefe were found not guilty last month in separate trials in Baghdad.In December 2009, Congressman Poe filed H.Res. 977 honoring the three SEALs for their heroic actions to bring one of the most notorious terrorists in Iraq to justice. To read additional remarks made by Congressman Poe on the House floor, please click the following links:NAVY SEAL MATTHEW MCCABEhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=184041 TWO SEALS NOT GUILTY--THIRD SHOULD BE ACQUITTED TOO http://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=182773 CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR NAVY SEALShttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=157583
05.11.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his legislation, H. Res 1299, honoring National Peace Officers Memorial Day unanimously passed the US House of Representatives, 395-0. Each year, the President issues a Proclamation naming May 15th as National Peace Officer Memorial Day. Congressman Poes resolution honors federal, state, and local law enforcement officers who have been killed or disabled in the line of duty and calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect.We are grateful for the selfless service of this nations law enforcement officers, said Poe. In the process of protecting us and making our communities a safer place, law enforcement officers often put themselves in harms way. They protect our lives and our property regardless of the dangers to themselves. As a result, many tragically lose their lives in the line of duty. There are more than 900,000 sworn law enforcement offices serving in the United States. In 2009 alone, 125 officers were killed while serving their communities. More than 18,600 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty since the first recorded police death in 1792. A quote by President George H.W. Bush is engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, DC that states that it is an officers continuing quest to preserve both democracy and decency and to protect a national treasure that we call the American dream. I applaud my colleagues in Congress for their unanimous support of this resolution, continued Poe. This yearly tribute to law enforcement officers provides each of us with an opportunity to honor those who lost their lives while protecting the citizens of this country.Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims, children and law enforcement agencies.
05.11.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his legislation, H. Res 1299, honoring National Peace Officers Memorial Day unanimously passed the US House of Representatives, 395-0. Each year, the President issues a Proclamation naming May 15th as National Peace Officer Memorial Day. Congressman Poes resolution honors federal, state, and local law enforcement officers who have been killed or disabled in the line of duty and calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect.We are grateful for the selfless service of this nations law enforcement officers, said Poe. In the process of protectingus andmaking our communities a safer place,law enforcement officersoften put themselves in harms way. They protect our lives and our property regardless of the dangers to themselves. As a result, many tragically lose their lives in the line of duty. There are more than 900,000 sworn law enforcement offices serving in the United States. In 2009 alone, 125 officers were killed while serving their communities. More than 18,600 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty since the first recorded police death in 1792. A quote by President George H.W. Bush is engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, DC that states that it is an officers continuing quest to preserve both democracy and decency and to protect a national treasure that we call the American dream. I applaud my colleagues in Congress for their unanimous support of this resolution, continued Poe. This yearly tribute to law enforcement officers provides each of us with an opportunity to honor those who lost their lives while protecting the citizens of this country.Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims, children and law enforcement agencies.
05.10.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's nomination of Solicitor General Elena Kagan to the U.S. Supreme Court:"As a former judge for over 20 years, I feel very strongly that any nominee to our highest court should have judicial trial experience. Currently, the Supreme Court is overly stacked with Harvard lawyers."
05.07.2010	The Daughters of Penelope Applauds Reps. Maloney, McMahon for Joining the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus The Daughters of Penelope (DOP), a premier international womens organization, welcomed news today that U.S. Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Michael E. McMahon (D-NY) have joined the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, announced Grand President Elaine M. Sampanis. We sincerely thank Congresswoman Maloney and Congressman McMahon for joining the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, said Sampanis. We believe they will be tremendous assets to the caucus, and we look forward to working with them. We also hope more of their colleagues will follow their leads and join the caucus. She added, The Victims Rights Caucus is an important one to our organization because domestic violence issues fall under its scope. Therefore, given our organizations support of domestic violence victims, it is vital to grow the caucus. For decades, the Daughters of Penelope has had a vested interest in the issue of domestic violence, supporting local shelters and the victims they house all across the country. In 1979, the DOP sponsored Penelope House, a nationally-recognized model shelter located in Mobile, Ala. It was the first of its kind in Alabama. In October 2009, the DOP opened its second nationally sponsored shelter, Penelopes Place, in Brockton, Mass. The bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus was formed in 2005 to be an advocate and voice in Congress for victims of all types of crime, including domestic violence. It is co-chaired by its founder, U.S. Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX) and U.S. Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA). The mission of the DOP is to promote the ancient Greek ideals of Education, Philanthropy, Civic Responsibility, and Family and Individual Excellence through community service and volunteerism. For more information about Penelope House, please visit www.penelopehouse.org. Please visit www.ahepa.org/dop for more information about the DOP or any of its programs or projects.
05.04.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was recently recognized for his work in Congress on behalf of victims and law enforcement, small business and for his continued support of conservative issues. I am honored to receive these awards, each represent issues that are important to me and to southeast Texans, said Poe. These organizations all do an outstanding job of raising awareness of their respective issues and I am happy to continue that effort in Congress.Congressman Poe received the following awards: North Texas Crime Commissions 2010 Legislator of the Year Award for his dedication and continued support of law enforcement and victims of crime. United States Chamber of Commerces Spirit of Enterprise Award for support of pro-business issues during first session of the 111th Congress. American Conservative Unions Conservative Legislator Award for supporting a wide variety of issues of interest to grass-roots conservatives voted on during the first session of the 111th Congress. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit our website: poe.house.gov.
05.04.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host the first annual Youth Conference for the 2nd Congressional District on May 15th, 2010. The purpose of the event is to encourage high school students to prepare for their future. Our countrys greatest resources are our children, said Poe. As a community, we are bettered by the contributions of our neighbors and there is no greater place to plant that seed than with our young people. As I speak to students all across our district, I remind them the importance of being involved in their communities and the importance of making good decisions that will create opportunities for them in the future, continued Poe. This conference will aim to provide high school students with the encouragement, guidance and resources to start planning for tomorrow today. The conference will include guest speakers and an opportunity for students to talk one-on-one with leaders in our communities. Joining Congressman Poe, guest speakers will include: former NBA basketball player Elvin Hayes, Lieutenant Colonel Anthony Landry (U.S. Army Retired), and former astronaut Richard Hieb.WHEN: Saturday, May 15, 20109:30am 12:30pmWHERE:Dayton Civic Center801 South Cleveland StDayton, TX 77535Participants are encouraged to RSVP before April 30th to either District Office:Kingwood 281-446-0252 Beaumont 409-212-8711
04.28.2010	Representatives Ted Poe (TX-02), Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-08), Ed Royce (CA-40), Dan Burton (IN-05) and additional members of Congress call on President Obama to take immediate action to address the growing national security threat on our southern border. In a letter being sent to the President, Congressional members are urging the administration to grant requests from the governors of our nation border states for National Guard troops to be deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border. In addition, the letter specifically requests that any National Guard troops that are deployed should be armed and allowed to defend themselves if fired upon; upon request, assist in defending Border Patrol agents and other law enforcement officers; and that they be provided with very clear guidance of proper rules of engagement. Border patrol and local law enforcement on the border are out-manned, out-gunned, and out-financed, said Rep. Ted Poe. Texas Governor Rick Perry has been asking for National Guard troops for over a year, but Washington continues to ignore these requests. This is not a partisan or political issue, this is a national security issue. I urge the administration to take immediate action on this request and secure the border. Border security is not a Republican issue or a Democratic issue, an American issue, said Rep. Gabrielle Giffords. Every American, no matter which party they belong to or where they live, is deeply concerned about restoring law and order in our border communities. These communities have suffered enough. President Obama needs to immediately deploy the National Guard and send a clear message to the drug cartels: We will fight you, we will stop you and we will never waiver in our commitment to securing our border. Recent news reports of the murders of Lesley Enriquez, a U.S. Consulate employee, and her husband Arthur Redelf, a ten year veteran of the El Paso Police Department, and long-time Arizona rancher Robert Krentz, have brought the seriousness of this issue to the national forefront. Rep. Ed Royce added, As the Ranking Member of the Terrorism Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee I know all too well that border security is national security. For years I have supported programs like Operation Jump Start that seek to address our nations border vulnerabilities which is why I am pleased to work with Rep. Poe to give Americans what theyve been asking the federal government to deliver for years: border enforcement. I hope this Administration makes border enforcement more of a priority. Border Patrol and law enforcement agents along the border are facing a growing threat to their safety. Assaults against Border Patrol agents increased 46 percent from 752 incidents in 2007 to 1,097 incidents in 2008. Recent analysis from the El Paso Sector Border Intelligence Center warns that retaliatory actions against law enforcement officers could occur in the border region. The bipartisan letter gained the support of the National Border Patrol Council. "The National Border Patrol Council strongly endorses the recent requests of several border state governors and Members of Congress to deploy National Guard troops to perform support functions for the Border Patrol," stated T.J. Bonner, the organization's president. "In its view, the National Guard's contributions in that role over the past several years have been invaluable. The Council believes that these troops should be armed and authorized to defend themselves and others against attacks. The unwavering support of the dedicated men and women of the Border Patrol by certain Members of Congress, including the signatories to today's letter to President Obama, is greatly appreciated by the National Border Patrol Council. The tasks performed by Border Patrol agents are often dangerous and thankless, so it is heartening to know that some of our elected officials understand and appreciate the importance of the Border Patrol's mission and are trying to obtain the resources and support that are needed by front-line agents." The letter also urges the Administration to provide the Border Patrol with the support it needs, both in terms of tangible resources such as state-of-the-art technology and equipment, as well as ensuring that agents are not disciplined or prosecuted for performing their duties or defending themselves against attacks. Members of Congress on the letter (as of April 27, 2010): Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02); Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-08); Rep. Dan Burton (IN-05); Rep. Edward Royce (CA-40); Rep. Harry Teague (NM-02); Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10); Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12); Rep. Brian Bilbray (CA-50); Rep. John Carter (TX-31); Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03); Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01); Rep. John Culberson (TX-07); Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06); Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26); Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-52); Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04); Rep. John Shadegg (AZ-03)Full text of the letter:April 28, 2010The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500Dear President Obama,As you know, violence in the vicinity of the U.S.-Mexico border continues to increase at an alarming rate. We believe that this violence represents a serious threat to the national security of the United States as well as a serious threat to U.S. citizens that live along the 1,969 mile long border. We strongly believe that it is imperative for your Administration to promptly take the necessary steps to prevent this violence.We urge the Administration to take action to address this growing national security threat on our southern border. Without swift and decisive action, it is our fear that this violence will only increase in severity and scope. We urge you to deploy the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border, as has been requested by a number of border state Governors and Members of Congress. We ask that any National Guard troops that are deployed should be provided with very clear guidance of proper rules of engagement and should be armed and allowed to defend themselves if fired upon or attacked.As you know, the level of violence along the border continues to increase. Since January 2008, nearly 5,000 homicides have been committed in Juarez, Mexico, making it one of the most violent cities in the world. In 2009 alone, 79 U.S. citizens were killed in Juarez, Mexico. On March 13th of this year, Lesley Enriquez, a U.S. Consulate employee, and her husband Arthur Redelf, a ten year veteran of the El Paso Police Department, were killed when Mexican drug gang members fired a number of rounds at their vehicle. That same day, Jorge Alberto Salcido, the husband of a U.S. Consulate employee, was killed when cartel members shot at his car at a separate location.On March 27, 2010, Robert Krentz, a longtime Arizona rancher, was found shot dead and slumped over in his all-terrain vehicle with the engine still running. Following the murder of Mr. Krentz, his assailant was tracked to the U.S.- Mexico border and there is evidence that he crossed the border into Mexico. The day before the killing, Mr. Krentzs brother had called the Border Patrol to report a caravan of undocumented immigrants who were ultimately caught carrying 280 pounds of marijuana.Additionally, our Border Patrol and law enforcement agents along the border are facing a growing threat to their safety. Assaults against Border Patrol agents increased 46 percent from 752 incidents in 2007 to 1,097 incidents in 2008. Recent analysis from the El Paso Sector Border Intelligence Center warns that retaliatory actions against law enforcement officers could occur in the border region.At the same time, we urge the Administration to provide the Border Patrol with the support it needs, both in terms of tangible resources such as state-of-the-art technology and equipment, as well as ensuring that agents are not disciplined or prosecuted for performing their duties or defending themselves against attacks.We stand ready to work together with you and your Administration on these important issues to ensure the safety and security of all Americans in the border region and throughout our country.
04.21.2010	Reps. Costa and Poe Announce Passage Of National Crime Victims Rights Week ActAct designates April 18th to April 24th as National Crime Victims Rights weekCongressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) today announced that House Resolution 1104, the National Crime Victims Rights Week Act of 2010 passed the House of Representatives. This act designates the week of April 18th as National Crime Victims Rights Week to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime in the United States. This week is about supporting the victims of crimes and acknowledging the individuals who work tirelessly on their behalf, said Costa. During the 26th Anniversary of National Crime Victims Week, I encourage all of my colleagues to recognize the critical importance of supporting victims rights and the need to do more to advocate for those who have suffered from serious crimes. Crime victims are not just statistics, said Poe. They are real people with families and loved ones. This week we take the opportunity to honor their courage and their memories, and recommit ourselves to protecting the rights of crime victims throughout our nation.As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims rights to the forefront in Congress. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation and amendments to help bring more debate to this critical issue. The theme of this years Crime Victims Rights Week is Fairness, Dignity, Respect.
04.21.2010	Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), and Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) have introduced a resolution supporting April as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month. The legislation acknowledges survivors of sexual assault and supports the law enforcement, public safety and public health professionals working to end all types of sexual violence. Our bipartisan legislation sends a strong message that sexual assault has no place in our society, said Congresswoman Baldwin. Through this resolution, we honor the efforts of those who provide rape crisis intervention and prevention and raise awareness of the need for increased resources for preventing sexual violence, a serious threat to public health, Baldwin said.I am proud to work with my colleagues to bring attention to the effort to end sexual assault, said Congressman Poe. It is my hope that through this bipartisan resolution, we can raise awareness of the impact that sexual violence has on our society and expand the much needed support for victims of these horrible crimes, Poe said.It is sad and sobering that nearly 15 percent of women will be victims of rape or sexual assault during their lifetimes, said Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz. This month, we pay tribute to these survivorsand to all the health professionals and law enforcement officers who help heal their wounds and pursue justice, Wasserman Schultz said.Studies show that one in six women and one in thirty-three men will be a victim of rape or attempted rape in their lifetime and that on average, a person is sexually assaulted in the U.S. every two-and-a-half minutes. The effects of sexual assault cut across racial, social, religious, ethnic, ability, and economic boundaries, and although most victims are younger women, sexual assault affects men, women and children of all ages. In addition to the physical effects of victimization, the emotional scars felt by sexual assault survivors may persist long after these physical scars have healed.Our thanks to Representatives Baldwin, Poe, and Wasserman Schultz for their efforts to promote violence prevention, said Jeanie Kurka Reimer, Executive Director, Wisconsin Coalition Against Sexual Assault. Sexual Assault Awareness Month is a time to acknowledge the prevalence of sexual violence and move into action - raise awareness, honor and celebrate survivors who have lived through these horrible crimes, and think about how we, as individuals and organizations, may bring about the change necessary to end sexual violence, Reimer said.
04.20.2010	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined U.S. Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn and the Houston-area congressional delegation in sending a letter to President Barack Obama inviting him to visit the Johnson Space Center (JSC) to witness the great work being done there and to discuss the Centers role in the future of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).It is important that President Obama come to Houston and see first-hand what Johnson Space Center and Mission Control is all about, said Poe. Houston is just as big a part of NASA as Orlando if not more. The 40 years of experience at JSC simply cannot be replaced. We cannot concede leadership to the Russians and Chinese. Houston was the first word from the moon, not Moscow or Bejing. The full text of the Houston-area delegations letter to President Obama is below:President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500Dear President Obama:We are writing to invite you to visit the Johnson Space Center (JSC) to witness the great work being done here and discuss the Centers role in your vision for the future of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).We are very pleased to see your administrations focus on the future of the NASA and manned space flight. We look forward to working with you to continue Americas 40 year record of space dominance. However, after reviewing your Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Proposal and listening to your speech at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, we are concerned that the JSC and its experienced workforce will not be fully utilized under your proposal for NASA. Your proposals reliance on a promising, yet still fledgling commercial space industry, combined with retiring the Space Shuttle and canceling Constellation will severely diminish the manned space flight program and provide the JSC with no true mission objective. The United States will be left without domestic manned space flight capabilities or the ability to support the International Space Station (ISS), putting the station at risk of major operational failure well before its planned retirement in 2020. In addition, it is unacceptable for the U.S. to forfeit its dominance in space and risk national security by becoming dependent on the Russians to reach the ISS.The JSC represents 40 years of experience and infrastructure that is not possessed anywhere else and cannot be replaced if we allow it to be lost now. To reduce the space gap and keep our country at the forefront of space exploration, it is critical for NASA to continue its support and development of manned space flight capabilities while the commercial industry continues to grow.We hope you will meet with us and the talented workforce here at JSC in Houston or with our delegation in Washington, D.C. to further detail your vision for JSC and its role within your proposal for NASA. We are excited to work with you to define the future of American manned space flight and look forward to hosting you in Houston soon.Sincerely,KAY BAILEY HUTCHISONJOHN CORNYN U.S. SenatorU.S. SenatorPETE OLSON GENE GREENU.S. Representative U.S. RepresentativeMICHAEL MCCAUL SHEILA JACKSON LEEU.S. Representative U.S. RepresentativeAL GREEN KEVIN BRADYU.S. Representative U.S. RepresentativeTED POE RON PAULU.S. Representative U.S. RepresentativeJOHN CULBERSON RALPH HALLU.S. Representative U.S. Representative
04.15.2010	Congressman Ted Poe announces today that he is cosponsoring H.R. 4746, the Taxpayer Certainty Act. This bill makes all of the 2001 and 2003 expiring tax provisions permanent. The federal governments budget problems have not come from a lack of income, rather an excess of spending, said Poe. Because Congress continues to spend more money than it brings in, the administrations misguided solution is to raise taxes on the American people. We cannot afford to raise taxes on individuals, families and businesses in the middle of an economic downturn. The current tax cuts are set to expire this year. Unless Congress acts, marginal income tax rates will increase for all taxpayers, the marriage penalty will be reinstated and taxes on dividends and capital gains will increase. In addition, the child tax credit will decrease and the federal death tax returns with a maximum tax rate of 55 percent.Americans should not be penalized for being married, having children or for dying, but that is what will happen if Congress does not act to ensure that the tax cuts become permanent, continued Poe. The only proven way to stimulate our economy is by allowing taxpayers, including business owners, to keep more of their own money. It is nonsensical to think that we can tax and spend our way into prosperity. It just doesnt work.For more information on Congressman Ted Poe, please visit our website: poe.house.gov.
04.15.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement today in response to President Obamas speech on the future of NASA:No matter what kind of political spin the White House puts on this, without the Constellation project our space program will be left hitch-hiking on the side of the road with their thumbs out. Upon hearing the news, Russia has already jacked up their taxi fare to space and the price is only going to get higher.NASA is Americas legacy Houstons legacy. The Johnson Space Center (JSC) is at the very heart of the space program and todays announcement will have a devastating impact on its future. We cannot allow JSC to be scrapped because of political paybacks for other states. We are the best at what we do. We should never concede our leadership.
04.13.2010	Congressional Victims Rights Caucus Holds Annual Award CeremonyVRC Co-Chairs Reps. Poe & Costa Honor Victim AdvocatesWASHINGTON, DC Co-Chairs Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) will join members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus to honor this years outstanding individuals that have given of their time and service to helping victims. WHEN: Wednesday, April 14, 2010 5:00 7:00pm ESTWHERE: Capitol Visitors Center North Congressional Meeting Room Washington, DCThe 2010 Victims Rights Caucus Recipients:(1) Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award Jay and Linda Foley are founders of the Identity Theft Resource Center (ITRC) in San Diego, California. When the ITRC began, identity theft was a crime where victims had no legal standing. It is now recognized through countless federal and state laws, and ITRC has made its name in developing victim assistance strategies that have made a profound difference in the lives of folks who fall prey to identity theft. The ITRC works actively to raise awareness of identity theft through mailings, partnerships with local businesses, and social networking. They additionally provide no-cost assistance to victims of identity theft, which has helped many people avoid financial ruin. Jay and Linda Foley and the Identity Theft Resource Center were nominated by Representative Susan Davis (CA-53) and Representative Brian Bilbray (CA-50).(2) Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Herman Milholland currently serves as the Director/Chief of the Crime Victim Services Division in the Office of the Texas Attorney General. He has dedicated his life to serving victims at the local, state and national levels. Herman has built state and local programs from the ground up that provide crime victims with compensation and restitution. He has ensured that victims in court proceedings are treated with respect and afforded their rights under the law. Importantly, Herman has also provided national leadership that focuses on a strong and positive future for crime victim assistance in America. Whether his efforts are focused on an individual victim in need of help or a national initiative to ensure the future of the victim assistance field, he is dedicated and committed to advocating for victims, their rights and needs and the services they deserve. Herman Milholland was nominated by Representative Ted Poe (TX-2).(3) Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy David Voth has served as the Director of Crime Victim Services in Lima, Ohio, since 1985. He is recognized as an outstanding advocate for victims of crime, and also for his unique expertise in the justice technology that enhances victim services. David is a founding member of the Board of the National Victims Constitutional Amendment Network, which seeks to promote victims rights across the nation. In 2009, he published, Quality Victim Advocacy: A Field Guide, which aims to simplify program planning and evaluation for victim assistance groups. The book has become a must read for victim advocates everywhere. David Voth was nominated by Representative Jim Jordan (OH-4)(4) Allied Profession Award Christine Keels has dedicated her life to community corrections in both Maryland and the District of Columbia. Christine designed the Victim Services Program for the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency in Washington, D.C. Through her leadership, Christine ensured that corrections officers were trained victim issues. She also developed a District and cross border advocacy program to connect service provides with victims of crime, and to begin a dialogue between services providers to share information, resources and techniques. These efforts led to the development of a Victim Services Program Resource Manual, which was reviewed by the Department of Justices Office of Victims of Crime and utilized in the development of a national registry of service providers. Christine was nominated by Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC).(5) Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Susan Russell is a personal hero to many in the victim advocacy world. In 1992, she was kidnapped, raped and left for dead in a remote wilderness area. Her recovery began her path as an advocate and activist for other survivors of crime. She has been a prominent voice for victims at the local, state and national levels, testifying before Congress about the Victims of Crime Act and before the Vermont Senate Judiciary Committee to influence the outcome of victim related legislation in that state. Susan Russell was nominated by Representative Peter Welch (VT-At Large) (6) Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation Suzanne Brown-McBride has dedicated her life and work to victim assistance, public safety, and crime prevention. Suzanne began her work on behalf of sexual assault victims in 1991 as a community education specialist and crisis line advocate. Since that time, shes demonstrated success as an administrator through her leadership of sexual assault and domestic violence service programs in California, Washington State and Oregon. Before recently beginning her tenure as Deputy Director of the Council of State Governments Justice Center, Suzanne served as the Executive Director of two statewide victim assistance associations: the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault; and the Washington Coalition of Sexual Assault Programs. Suzanne Brown-McBride was nominated by Representative Jim Costa (CA-20).
03.23.2010	Congressman Poe announces today that he has filed, HR. 4904, to prohibit any federal funding from being appropriated by Congress to fund the individual mandates requiring Americans to purchase insurance or pay a fine as defined in the recently passed Senate healthcare bill. This fight is not even close to being over, said Poe. I am filing legislation as early as today that will prevent the implementation and enforcement of these unconstitutional mandates included in the Senate healthcare bill.Nowhere in our Constitution does it give the federal government the authority to force us to buy anything, whether that is health insurance, a new car or a box of government approved do-nuts. The American people still value the protections set forth in our Constitution and I will vigorously fight to ensure that this Congress and this administration adhere to the laws of this country.In addition to HR 4904, Congressman Poe filed HR. 959 (Dec 2009) challenging the constitutionality of the current healthcare bill and any future bill that would require American citizens to purchase any goods or services as a condition of citizenship.Seventy percent of Americans are against this bill, continued Poe. Americans want reform that promotes improvement and advancement in our free-market system. We have overwhelmingly rejected the philosophy that the federal government can do it better. Its time to stop the massive government expansion and focus on real reform not more government control. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and holds a Doctorate of Jurisprudence from the University of Houston Law Center.For more information on Congressman Poe, including numerous statements and speeches on his stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/
03.18.2010	Washington, DC Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-02) joins Houston Mayor Annise Parker (D), and Reps. Gene Green (D), Pete Olson (R), Sheila Jackson Lee (D), Kevin Brady (R), John Culberson (R), Al Green (D), and Michael McCaul (R), in a bipartisan effort to express unified support for the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations (NASA) Constellation program. The Presidents FY2011 budget would kill the Constellation program, placing Americas ability to send humans in to space in jeopardy and place thousands of jobs at Johnson Space Center (JSC) and across the nation in jeopardy. Congressman Poe issued the following statement:Giving up on our space program will not only devastate our local economy and the engineering and aerospace industries, but will be a crippling blow to our national psyche. Houston was the first word heard on the moon, not Moscow, not Beijing. NASA is Americas legacy Houstons legacy.###
03.17.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that he is an original cosponsor of H. Res. 1188 ensuring that there is an up-or-down vote in the House on the Senate Healthcare Bill, H.R. 3590, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.The resolution would prevent the Speaker from bringing a rule or order to the floor that provides for the disposition of the Senate amendments to H.R. 3590, unless it also allows for an up-or-down vote on the Senate bill. This would prevent deeming the Senate healthcare bill as passed without having members vote on the actual legislation itself. The American people do not want government-run healthcare, said Poe. And because the administration and the majority know this, they have resorted to using procedural tricks to pass a bill they otherwise do not have the votes to pass. Dont underestimate the American people they are not as easily fooled as the Washington elites may think. H. Res. 1188 states:Resolved, That the Committee on Rules may not report a rule or order that provides for disposition of the Senate amendments to H.R. 3590, an Act entitled The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, unless such rule or order provides for (1) at least one hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, or their designees; and(2) a requirement that the Speaker put the question on disposition of the Senate amendments and that the yeas and nays be considered as ordered thereon.
02.24.2010	Within weeks of a hearing and a committee vote, the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5), H.R. 3695, the Help Find the Missing Act, also known as "Billy's Law." "I want to thank Congressman Murphy and my colleagues for passing this important bill, said Poe. Billy's Law' will help bridge the gap of communication and offer the long overdue resources for families of the missing. It was the unwavering determination of the families, like the Smolinskis, that endured the hardships of a broken system to which we also owe our thanks. Because they never gave up, Billy's Law' is now one step closer to becoming a reality." "Billy's Law," introduced by Murphy and Poe last year, empowers families and loved ones of the missing to find justice by helping to secure funding for the only federal missing persons and unidentified remains database that can be cross-searched, accessed and added to by the public - the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs). This database enables the loved ones of the missing to spend countless hours searching for a match and add invaluable information to the case profile that only they know. The legislation helps to streamline the reporting process for law enforcement and medical examiners by connecting two major federal missing persons and unidentified remains databases- the FBI's National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and the NamUs. Connecting these databases makes them more comprehensive and more likely to lead to a match between a missing person and unidentified human remains. "Billy's Law" also creates an incentive grants program to coroners, medical examiners, and law enforcement agencies to help facilitate the reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains to the federal databases. Grants can also be used for training programs on how to correctly use the databases and best handle these cases. By creating a robust, user-friendly national missing persons and unidentified remains database, Billys Law will help heal family wounds by finally giving parents and family members like the Smolinskis the ability to be true partners with law enforcement in the search for their loved one, said Murphy. This legislation is named after Billy Smolinski of Waterbury, Connecticut, who went missing on August 24, 2004, at the age of 31. After hearing from Janice Smolinski about the nightmare her family endured, Billys Law was introduced to help ensure that more families do not encounter the systemic challenges the Smolinskis faced in the search to find their son.Congressman Ted Poe serves on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and is founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in Washington, DC.For more information on Congressman Poe and the Victims Rights Caucus, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov.
01.27.2010	Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved legislation introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5), H.R. 3695, the Help Find the Missing Act, also known as Billys Law. After holding a hearing last week on the missing persons legislation, the House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) cosponsored the bill and the Committee moved quickly to push Billys Law forward, in the direction of a vote by the full House. Billys Law moved one step closer to becoming law today, said Poe. I want to thank Congressman Murphy for taking on this issue and the Smolinski family for not giving up on making a difference in the lives of millions of other families struggling to find their loved ones. I am committed to seeing that this bill gains the full support of Congress and to the Presidents desk as quickly as possible. Billys Law, introduced by Poe and Murphy last year, empowers families and loved ones of the missing to find justice by helping to secure funding for the only federal missing persons and unidentified remains database that can be cross-searched, accessed and added to by the public - the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs). This database enables the loved ones of the missing to spend countless hours searching for a match and add invaluable information to the case profile that only they know. The legislation helps to streamline the reporting process for law enforcement and medical examiners by connecting two major federal missing persons and unidentified remains databases- the FBI's National Crime Information Center (NCIC) and the NamUs. Connecting these databases makes them more comprehensive and more likely to lead to a missing person or unidentified remains match. Billys Law also creates an incentive grants program to coroners, medical examiners, and law enforcement agencies to help facilitate the reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains to the federal databases. Grants can also be used for training programs on how to correctly use the databases and best handle these cases. Im thrilled to see this bill gaining steam in Congress, Murphy said. For families across the country whose loved ones have gone missing, the search for answers can be all-consuming. I hope that this bill will help provide closure for some of these families, and keep them from encountering unnecessary roadblocks in their searches. This legislation is named after Billy Smolinski of Waterbury, Connecticut who went missing on August 24, 2004 at the age of 31. After hearing from Janice Smolinski about the nightmare her family endured, Billys Law was introduced to help ensure that more families do not encounter the systemic challenges the Smolinskis faced in the search to find their son. The next step in the legislative process for Billys law is a full vote in the House. A companion bill is expected to be introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman (ID-CT). Congressman Ted Poe serves on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and is founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in Washington, DC. For more information on Congressman Poe and the Victims Rights Caucus, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov
01.26.2010	Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02) and Rep. Peter Welch (VT-AL) on Wednesday hailed Wal-Mart Inc.s decision to withdraw its plan to build a superstore on the site of a Civil War battleground where thousands of Vermont and Texas troops perished. In a bipartisan effort, Poe and Welch have fought to protect Virginias Wilderness Battlefield since the company first proposed to develop within the boundaries of the battlefield. Like Gen. Robert E. Lee said at the Battle of the Wilderness, Texans always move them, said Poe. This time we had had help from the North from my colleague Rep. Peter Welch. Todays announcement is a victory for all Americans. Welch and Poe first wrote Wal-Mart CEO Mike Duke in February 2009, urging him to take action to preserve this vital piece of history. The Congressmen took to the House floor together in March to reiterate their opposition and toured the site in May to mark the 145th anniversary of the Battle of the Wilderness. While there, Welch and Poe visited monuments to the Vermont and Texas troops who perished during the battle. The Wilderness Battlefield is a sacred site for Vermonters, Texans and all Americans. The site marks the sacrifice of so many soldiers, whose memory we must cherish, Welch and Poe said in a joint statement. We appreciate Wal-Marts decision to build elsewhere and we applaud the leadership and advocacy of those who fought to preserve this important national landmark. The Battle of the Wilderness, fought in May 1864, was among the most significant battles of the Civil War. It marked the first time that legendary generals Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant faced each other in battle. When fighting ended, more than 29,000 Americans had been killed, wounded or captured. Arriving at the breaking point of the battle, Texas troops, led by Gen. James Longstreet, pushed back the Union front. From this effort, came Gen. Lees famous quote: Texans always move them. Although victorious, 60 percent of the Texans were killed in the historic battle. Nearly half of the 2,800 Vermonters who fought at that battle were killed, wounded or went missing.###
01.21.2010	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5) testified today at the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security hearing about the importance of their legislation, H.R. 3695, the Help Find the Missing Act Billys Law.I would like to thank my colleague, Congressman Murphy for taking up this worthy cause, and for asking me to work with him on this important, common sense legislation, said Congressman Poe. I would also like to thank Janice Smolinski for sharing with us the story of her son Billy. This legislation is named after her son, but it is aimed to help the all those families like the Smolinskis. Having served as a chief felony prosecutor and judge in Harris County, Texas for 30 years, I know firsthand the hurdles law enforcement and families have to deal with in trying to solve these cases, Poe continued. Many of these problems could easily be addressed by creating a publically accessible national database provided for in Billys Law. Every year tens of thousands of Americans go missing, never to be seen by their loved ones again. At the same time, there are also an estimated 40,000 sets of unidentified human remains that are being held or disposed of across the country, and no organized system to match cases and remains. Law enforcement cant match the passion and information that family members possess when it comes to searching for a missing person. By building a powerful public database of missing persons and unidentified remains, Billys Law gives families the tools they need to get closure on their personal nightmares, said Congressman Murphy.This legislation is named after Billy Smolinski of Waterbury, Connecticut who went missing on August 24, 2004 at the age of 31. Billys family knows all-too-well the systemic challenges in trying to find the missing. They quickly learned that while federal law mandates law enforcement report missing children, there are no such requirements for adults or unidentified bodies. Billys mother, Janice Smolinski, also testified today, stating: Uncertainty is a cancer that crushes the spirit of loved ones left behind. With this bill, we have an opportunity to make changes nationwide and gives families like mine hope for a better, more certain tomorrow.H.R. 3695, Billys Law: Authorizes funding for the National Missing Persons and Unidentified Persons System (NamUs) to provide a missing persons/unidentified database that the public could access and contribute; Connects NamUs with the FBIs National Crime Information Center (NCIC) in order to create more comprehensive databases and streamlining the reporting process for local law enforcement; Creates an incentive grants program to help states, local law enforcement and medical examiners/coroners report missing persons and unidentified remains to NCIC, NamUs, and the National DNA Index System (NDIS); and Calls on the DOJ to issue guidelines and best practices on handling missing persons and unidentified remains cases to help find the missing. Congressman Ted Poe serves on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security and is founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in Washington, DC.Kristina Rose, Acting Director, National Institute of Justice at the U.S. Department of Justice, and Stephen Morris, Deputy Assistant Director, Criminal Justice Information Services, U.S. Department of Justice also testified at the hearing in support of the legislation.For more information on Congressman Poe and the Victims Rights Caucus, please visit our website: poe.house.gov
01.14.2010	U.S. InquiriesThose searching for individuals believed to be in Haiti, contact the Departments Haiti Task Force at 1-888-407-4747; please have available the following: full name; date of birth; citizenship; time, date, and place of last known location; any contact information; and constituent e-mail address. Anyone seeking information about U.S. citizens in Haiti can e-mail the State Department at Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. Contact the Embassy via email to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassys Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. U.S. Department of State InformationThe State Department has created a task force to monitor the emergency. For further information and updates, please see the State Departments Consular Affairs website. Volunteer OpportunitiesPersons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information at: http://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/.How to Contribute to the EffortsFor people who wish to lend in-kind or monetary donations, please refer to www.whitehouse.gov. The State Department created a mechanism for immediate monetary assistance, text "HAITI" to "90999" and $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross, and charged to your cell phone bill. If you have a significant in-kind contribution to make such as a plane, a cargo ship, a team of doctors, portable generators, or large-scale water purification equipment please log onto the website of the Center for International Disaster Information at www.cidi.org. The Center for International Disaster Information is a partner organization of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) that can help put usable donations on the ground in Haiti.
01.08.2010	"I cannot express my sadness over todays shooting. Gabby is not only a colleague, but a close friend. My prayers are with her family and the loved ones of those that needlessly lost their lives today. As for the person that committed this heinous crime, I hope that justice is swift and punishment is harsh."
12.16.2009	Congressman Ted Poe filed a resolution today honoring the Navy SEALs for the capture of Ahmed Hasim Abed, the mastermind behind the murders of four Blackwater secutiy guards and many other attacks on US and coalition forces.H.Res. 977 honors three of those SEALs for their heroic actions to bring one of the most notorious terrorists in Iraq to justice: Petty Officer Matthew McCabe (SO-2), Petty Officer Jonathan Keefe (SO-2), and Petty Officer Julio Huertas (SO-1).I filed this resolution because our men and women on the battlefield need to know that they have the support of the American people back home, said Congressman Poe. We should be commending the Navy SEALs for doing the job that we've asked them to do capturing the terrorist mastermind responsible for murdering, torturing and hanging the mutilated bodies of four innocent Americans. These elite warriors are the very best that we have in this country, Poe asserted. We've asked them to do tough assignments, and we should be supporting them. I say congratulations to the Navy SEALs for a job well done.On March 31, 2004, four Blackwater security guards were transporting supplies in Fallujah, Iraq when they were caught in an ambush and murdered. Their bodies were then set on fire and mutilated. Associated Press television news pictures showed one man beating a charred corpse with a metal pole. Others tied a yellow rope to a body, hooked it to a car and dragged it down the main street of town. Two blackened and mangled corpses were hung from the green, iron bridge spanning the Euphrates River for all the world to see. More than five years later, on September 4, 2009, Navy SEALs captured Ahmed Hasim Abed. During the course of his capture, Abed alleges to have been punched in the mouth and as a result of the Navy investigation, Petty Officer Matthew McCabe (SO-2), Petty Officer Jonathan Keefe (SO-2), and Petty Officer Julio Huertas (SO-1) were court-matialed and arraigned on December 7, 2009.
12.15.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed H. Res. 959 expressing the sense that many members of Congress challenge the authority of the federal government to require by law that Americans purchase health insurance, or any goods or services.The Resolution asserts that not every member of Congress agrees with the unprecedented expansion of Congressional taxing power and believes that it should be out of order for Congress to pass any future bills which take this approach.Any bill that requires Americans to buy something under the guise of a tax or pay a fine, violates House procedural rules, said Poe. This legislation is based on the premise that such a bill is an unconstitutional exercise of legislative taxing authority. Thus any such bills brought to the floor would be ruled out of order.Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S. Constitution states: The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States.It is a very slippery slope to allow Congress to expand this authority for the purpose of forcing American citizens to buy health insurance or anything else, Congressman Poe continued. We must heed the confines of our Constitution, not ignore it in a mad rush to expand the federal government or reinterpret its meaning to serve a political purpose.Before serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years. Congressman Poe is a member of the House Judiciary Committee. For more information on Congressman Poe and the issues he support for healthcare reform, please visit our website: poe.house.gov.
11.19.2009	Maloney, Heller introduce bill to eliminate rape kit testing backlog nationwideWASHINGTON, DC Today, U.S. Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) and Rep. Dean Heller (R-NV) along with over 20 House colleagues introduced H.R. 4114, the Justice for Survivors of Sexual Assault Act of 2009. The legislation would help reduce the national backlog of over 180,000 untested rape kits currently on police shelves by creating incentives for jurisdictions to eliminate their rape kit backlogs, process their incoming rape kits in a timely manner, and publicly report their backlog numbers. The bill will also address several other factors that work to deny justice to victims of sexual assault including the denial of free rape kits to survivors of sexual assault and the shortage of trained health professionals capable of administering rape kit exams.Every two minutes someone is sexually assaulted somewhere in the United States. DNA evidence doesnt forget and it cannot be intimidated, said Rep Maloney. By processing this evidence, we can prevent rapists from attacking more innocent victims and ensure that the survivors and their families receive justice.It is imperative that Congress give law enforcement the resources necessary to keep our communities safe. DNA analysis has proven to be an essential tool for solving crimes across the country. This legislation could help solve cases nationwide and bring closure to victims and families. I am pleased to join Congresswoman Maloney in bipartisan support of this very important legislation, said Heller.The Senates companion bill, S.2736, has been introduced by Senators Franken, Grassley, Hatch, and Feinstein.###Original cosponsors (22): Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Rep. Dean Heller (R-NV), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Rep. Patrick Kennedy (D-RI), Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Steve Israel (D-NY), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Laura Richardson (D-CA), Rep. Tom Perriello (D-VA), Rep Eliot Engel (D-NY), Rep. Bill Delahunt (D-MA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Diane Watson (D-CA), Rep. John Hall (D-NY), Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Dennis Moore (D-KS), Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ) and Rep Adam Schiff (D-CA). Background: Rep Maloney authored legislation, the Debbie Smith Act, which passed as part of the Justice for All Act of 2004, authorizing the necessary funding to start processing the national DNA backlog through the creation of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program. Despite Congress full funding of the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program year after year, backlogs continue to persist. This legislation improves upon the existing law and clarifies its intent. Contact Jon Houston, (Maloney) 202-225-7944Stewart Bybee, (Heller) 202-225-6155
11.18.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he is cosponsoring four separate, stand alone bills related to addressing specific issues of healthcare reform.During all this debate over government-run healthcare, common sense reform is getting left out of the discussion, said Poe. There are things that Congress can do right now to address specific problems Americans are faced with when it comes to healthcare coverage and affordability. We need to fix what is broken first, rather than throw it all out and let the government take over with one massive 2,000 page bill.Congressman Poe is cosponsoring the following legislation: H.R. 3887 would allow young adults to stay on their parents insurance until the age of 25. The bill would cover both students and young adults who are new to the workforce. Since many of our nations uninsured are young adults, this bill will help to cut down the number of uninsured in our health care system. H.R. 3217, the Healthcare Choice Act of 2009, will make it easier to sell health insurance across state lines. This will encourage greater competition among insurance companies, and provide consumers across the country greater choice for their health insurance provider. These new choices will lead to lower prices and expanded access. H.R. 2607 will allow small businesses to band together to purchase insurance at a group rate. Usually, a large group rate is significantly lower than a small business or individual rate for health insurance. H.R. 2785 would work to reduce the large amount of repetitive and burdensome paperwork in our health care system. By reducing unnecessary paperwork, we will be able to lower health care costs for both individuals and businesses. To read more on Congressman Poes stance on healthcare reform, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov.
11.07.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement tonight after the passage of HR 3962:After months of objections by Americans across our great country, a slim majority in Congress ignored the will of the people and voted to pass HR. 3962 by a vote of 220-215. I VOTED NO!! This legislation will cost taxpayers over a trillion dollars, raise taxes, create 111 new federal bureaucracies and lead to a government takeover of our healthcare system. I stood with you today and voted AGAINST another government takeover. Republicans offered an alternative that would allow for the most basic, common sense reforms that didnt raise taxes or put us further into debt. But, it was defeated by those that want a government-run system. I supported this alternative and many others that were never allowed to be brought to the floor for debate. Unfortunately, partisan politics gave way at the end of the day. Rest assured tonight, this is far from over. As a former judge, I have serious questions of the constitutionality of this legislation. The bill forces every American to buy health insurance or be penalized with a tax based on your income level. If you dont want to or refuse to buy insurance, then you are in violation of the IRS code and are now subject to tax evasion charges punishable up to $250,000 and up to five years in prison. Nowhere in the Constitution does it allow for the government to force us to buy anything. If you thought you didnt like the IRS before, wait until they become the new healthcare police. During todays debate, I talked about the government debacle over the H1N1 virus. This is just a preview of what is to come. The federal government promised to save the country by providing 120 million H1N1 virus vaccines in three months. Of course the government only made 20 percent of that number on time. So the government had to decide who would get medicine and who would not. This simple shot program administered by the government is a mess and has its priorities wrong. Why? Because the government is in charge. The government decides who gets flu shots and who doesnt. Patients dont decide; doctors dont decide. This is what a universal government-run and government-rationed health care program looks like. As I said before, this is not over. Our freedoms and our rights are far too important to give up. I will continue to fight with you to make sure that Washington, DC understands the meaning of: We the People. And thats just the way it is.
11.03.2009	HUMBLE, TX Congressman Ted Poe and staff are delivering copies of the House Healthcare Bill, HR. 3962 to local libraries throughout the Second Congressional district.Americans have made it clear that they want to know what is in this bill before Congress votes on it, said Poe. My staff and I have been delivering copies to local libraries and I have a link on my website so that anyone that wants to see the bill will have access to it. I do not support this bill, continued Poe. The second verse is the same as the first only longer. It is 1,990 pages and still costs over a trillion dollars.And like before, its more of the same job-killing employer mandates, budget-busting entitlement expansions, and countless provisions that put bureaucrats between you and your doctor. The American people want reform, not a government take-over of our healthcare system.To view the bill online and read more on Congressman Poes stance on healthcare reform, visit the website: http://poe.house.gov/ A copy of HR 3962 can be viewed in person at the following public libraries: Baytown - Sterling Municipal LibraryMary Elizabeth Wilbanks Ave. Spring - Barbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood Drive Humble - Octavia Fields Library1503 S Houston Ave Kingwood - Kingwood Branch Library4102 Rustic Woods Drive Liberty - Liberty Municipal Library1710 Sam Houston Street Dayton - Jones Public Library 307 West Houston Cleveland - Austin Memorial Library220 S Bonham Ave North Chanel - North Chanel Branch 15741 Wallisville Road Crosby - Crosby Branch Library135 Hare Road Port Neches Hebert Public Library2025 Merriman Street Beaumont - Elmo Willard Library 3590 East LucasBeaumont - R.C. Miller Library1605 DowlenPort Arthur - Port Arthur Public Library4615 9th Ave.
10.29.2009	Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement in response to todays announcement of a new healthcare bill in the House of Representatives: The second verse is the same as the first only longer. It is 1,990 pages and still costs $900 billion. Despite the claims of transparency and open doors, this bill was written in the dark caverns of the Capitol by a select few members of Congress and unveiled to the rest of us for the first time today. And, it is being said that we can expect to vote on this nearly 2000 page bill as early as next week. The devilish details are just as scary as before, just a 1000 pages more of them. The so-called public option, thats really a public mandate, will penalize individuals and small business by taxing them into submission. And like before, its more of the same job-killing employer mandates, budget-busting entitlement expansions, and countless provisions that put bureaucrats between you and your doctor. The American people want reform, not a government take-over of our healthcare system. I support a plan that encourages people to provide for themselves, rather than government taking care of people. Legislation that addresses the problems first rather than a one-size-government-fix-everything take over. I support common sense reform that doesnt require additional money or bureaucracy to implement, such as: eliminating fraud and waste in Medicare and Medicaid; patients and small businesses should be allowed to unite to increase their purchasing power; remove restrictions barring insurance sales across state lines; provide incentives, rather than restrictions, on personal health savings plans to allow people the opportunity to provide for themselves; closing all loopholes that allow costly coverage for those illegally in our country; and provisions for pre-existing conditions and a safety-net for catastrophic illnesses and the working poor.
10.29.2009	I am saddened to hear about the loss of my good friend and colleague John OQuinn. Johns generous contributions to our community impacted countless lives, including the thousands of children saved in the building that bares his name at the Childrens Assessment Center of Houston. While we were on opposite ends of the political spectrum, John and I were long-time friends, in-and-out of the courtroom and serving on the Board of Directors for many years at the Childrens Assessment Center. Houston has lost one of their finest. My thoughts and prayers go out to Johns family, he will be dearly missed.
10.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement today based on the conceptual language of the Senate health care bill:The American people are not fooled by all the political spin given to the Senate health care bill expected to be voted on today, said Poe. The fact is this bill turns health care over to the government at the expense of the taxpayers. I do not support this plan, or any other disguised effort, that raises taxes, cuts Medicare, eliminates choice and jeopardizes the quality of care we receive in our country. The majority of Americans have health care coverage and some are happy with their current plans. This bill will levy a significant tax on individuals, health insurers, prescription drugs and medical devices in order to pay for coverage of the uninsured. As a result, those costs will be passed on to the consumer and the cost of care will only increase. I support a bill that addresses specific reform, not a one-size-government-fix-everything bill. Experts say, when this bill is fully implemented, the ten year cost is actually $1.8 trillion while the cuts to Medicare/Medicaid add up to $1 trillion from FY2014-2023. No tweaking from the Congressional Budget Office can make this affordable.Other items of note regarding the Americas Healthy Future Act: Leaves 25 million people uninsured $404 billion in overall cuts to Medicare/Medicaid $133 billion in cuts to Medicare Advantage $22 billion in cuts determined by unaccountable, unelected Medicare Commission $349.2 billion in new taxes on employers, individuals, medical devices and drug manufacturers and insurers. Fails to fix SGR (Medicare payment formula for participating doctors) instead the bill uses a budget gimmick so that CBO assumes Congress will let a 25% cut in physician reimbursements occur after 2010. This is politically unrealistic. The real cost of addressing SGR would tack on another $200 billion in costs. Cuts $45 billion from hospitals that now serve low-income Americans ###
09.15.2009	Today, I signed onto a letter to House leadership urging them to include measures in the legislation that would specifically prevent illegal immigrants from receiving care. Please read the letter below:Dear Madam Speaker and Republican Leader Boehner:As discussion on health care reform continues, we urge you to include measures that will prevent illegal immigrants from receiving taxpayer-funded benefits in any health care reform bill considered by the House. While the House bill currently says illegal immigrants cannot get benefits, the statement is meaningless because the bill contains no verification mechanism to ensure that illegal immigrants will not receive benefits. The non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) recently issued some troubling information on the immigration-related provisions of the current health care bill, H.R. 3200. Specifically, the new CRS Report R40773, Treatment of Noncitizens in H.R. 3200, points out the following:CRS states that H.R. 3200 does not contain any restrictions on noncitzenswhether legally or illegally present, or in the United States temporarily or permanentlyparticipating in the [taxpayer-subsidized Health Insurance] Exchange. While section 142(a)(3) of H.R. 3200 states the responsibility of the Health Choices Commissioner to administer the individual affordability credits under subtitle C of title II, including determination of eligibility for such credits, no specific enforcement mechanism is outlined in the bill. CRS also notes that there could be instances where some family members would meet the definition of an eligible individual for purposes of the credit, while other family members would not. For example, in a family consisting of a U.S. citizen married to an unauthorized alien and a U.S. citizen child, the U.S. citizen spouse and child could meet the criteria for being a credit-eligible individual, while the unauthorized alien spouse would not meet the criteria. H.R. 3200 does not expressly address how such a situation would be treated. Therefore, it appears that the Health Choices Commissioner would be responsible for determining how the credits would be administered in the case of mixed-status families.Our constituents find these provisions unacceptable. The Pew Hispanic Center estimated that there are almost two million families in the United States where illegal immigrant parents have U.S.-born children, and even more mixed-status families exist. If H.R. 3200 becomes law in its current form, billions in taxpayer funds could go to those who are in our country illegally.Most of our concerns could be easily addressed by requiring individuals applying for affordability credits to undergo citizenship verification using one of the existing programs used for various social service programs. We urge you to adopt language such as the Heller amendment (offered in the House Ways & Means Committee during the markup of H.R. 3200, July 16, 2009) or the Deal amendment (offered in the House Energy & Commerce Committee markup of H.R. 3200, July 31, 2009) in the final version of any health care reform legislation to close these costly, unnecessarily loopholes.
08.04.2009	I firmly believe the best government is a limited government and this is especially true when it comes to health care. More government equals more problems. I support a plan that relies on a few basic principles: patients have control over their health care decisions, not bureaucrats; coverage is affordable, accessible and portable, regardless of job change or loss; patients and small businesses are allowed to unite to increase their purchasing power; patients have access to the highest quality care available regardless of pre-existing conditions; and a safety-net for catastrophic illnesses that exceed coverage limits. In addition, I support tax credits for health care expenses not tax increases. There must be provisions for medical liability reform in order to reduce costs for both patients and doctors. The current proposal not only would require a tax increase to pay for it, but it will also tax health care benefits and fail to protect doctors from practicing costly defensive medicine. Reform must also include eliminating the estimated $65-200 billion in fraud and waste in the current Medicare and Medicaid programs is also essential. I do not support a "one-size-fits-all" plan that would eliminate individual freedom of choice, force Americans into a government-run health care system and lead to rationing of services. I will NOT support a bill that gives decision-making power to a 25-year-old bureaucrat over a medical doctor. We cannot move to a system that doesnt allow our baby boomers and beyond care because some bureaucrat decides their quality of life factor doesnt meet "the standards." The Administrations plan increases the cost of health care for everyone, forces millions of Americans to lose their current health care coverage and dramatically increases the deficit. It will cost over $1 trillion and create 53 new permanent bureaucracies over the next ten years and thats just an estimate. When has the federal government ever spent LESS than expected? If you think its expensive now, wait until its free. To read more on this important issue:Youre Just too Oldhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=140333Sitting on the Side of the Roadhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=139984 Health Care Thieveshttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=139681 Mayo Clinic Opposed to Health Care Billhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=139227 Health Care Billhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=138872 Native American Indian Health Care Medical Malpracticehttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=138410 http://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=138108 Nationalized Health Care and Illegalshttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=138105 Why are Americans forced to pay for the Health Care of Illegals?http://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=136848 To Die or Not to Die: Thats the Government Question?http://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=136330 The Babies are Expendablehttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=136353 Health Care Rationing Could Result in the Death Penalty in the United Kingdomhttp://poe.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=135614
08.03.2009	Congressman Ted Poe recently submitted the following response to a misleading editorial that incorrectly stated the Congressmans opinion on President Obamas place of birth and the intent of pending legislation that is aimed to quell future controversies over the Constitutional requirement for the Office of the President. However, the Chronicle has declined to print the following response as of today, August 3,2009: The Chronicle once again incorrectly stated my opinion. Ironically, on Tuesday of this week I was asked by the Chronicle if I believed that President Obama was born outside the United States. My response in writing was in part: I have never said President Obama was born anywhere but the United States. In addition, I recently voted in support of a resolution honoring Hawaiis 50th anniversary of statehood that included language reaffirming Hawaii as President Obamas place of birth. The Chronicle blatantly chose to omit these facts. The media, including the Chronicle, seem to be obsessed with this issue as they continually misrepresent the facts in an effort to tie pending legislation pertaining to future elections to President Obama. The legislation simply defines the Constitutional requirements of the Office of the President by requiring all candidates to file a birth certificate in future presidential elections, thus having nothing to do with President Obama.Because this is not the first controversy, we should ensure it is the last. President Chester Arthurs birthplace was rumored to be Canada. Others included: Barry Goldwater, born in the Arizona territory; George Romney, born in a Mormon colony in Mexico; and Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., born in Canada. The New York Times, not exactly a birther paper, questioned Senator McCains eligibility after learning he was born on a US military base in the Panama Canal Zone.So to end any future questions, we should do what Little Leagues all across our country do and require a birth certificate at the time of registration.NOTE: This legislation was filed in March of 2009. It applies to all candidates equally in all future presidential elections beginning in 2012; and is not retro-active.
07.31.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he secured $4 million in federal funding for Lamar Universitys Advanced Fuel Cell project in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, FY 2010. I am proud to announce this funding for Lamar University and my continued my support of this important research project, said Congressman Poe (TX-02). This project is not only important to the university and southeast Texas, but to the advancement of our nations renewable energy technology. New technology is a vital component as we look for ways to increase and diversify our energy resources and increase efficiency. There is no better place for this technology to be developed than right here in Texas at Lamar University.Lamar Universitys Advanced Fuel Cell project is designed to develop, test and validate advanced fuel cell technologies necessary to enable lightweight, power efficient, environmentally clean, and cost-effective renewable energy technology and products for Army space and missile defense systems; as well as border, port, and chemical facility surveillance.In addition to this years funding, Congressman Poe secured $3 million in FY 2009 and $2.4 million in FY 2008.
07.28.2009	Congressman Ted Poe announced today that he secured $1,996,000 for the for Chambers-Liberty Counties Navigation Districts Trinity River Project in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for FY 2010. The Trinity River Project will provide for barge access to support the current industrial residents at the Port of Liberty and to attract new ones. The combination of rail and barge traffic at the Port of Liberty creates a powerful synergy to propel the economic development of the community.I am proud to announce that I was able to secure additional funding for this important project again this year, said Poe. As I have said before, I strongly believe that it is in our best interest to have Member of Congress responsibly secure funding for local projects rather than to leave it up to some bureaucrat in Washington, DC that has never been to Texas or heard of Liberty County. This funding is important to the future growth of Liberty County and will provide a continued opportunity to keep hometown people employed.Chambers-Liberty Counties Navigation District - $1,996,000Lower Trinity River Operations and Maintenance The Trinity River Project is a 47 mile shallow draft waterway beginning with the Anahuac Channel which extends for 5.6 miles from the 6 foot depth in upper Trinity Bay to the Mouth of the Trinity River at Anahuac Texas. From the mouth of Trinity River, the channel to Liberty proceeds for 41.4 miles along the meanders of the Trinity River to the Port of Liberty. Also included is a 9-foot depth channel extending from the Houston Ship channel along the east shore of the Trinity Bay, to a point one mile below Anahuac, Texas. In addition, Congressman Poe secured $994,000 for the project in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill for FY 2009.
07.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congresswoman Michelle Bachmann (MN-06) introduced the American Community Survey Act to limit the amount of personal information solicited by the US Census Bureau. The American Community Survey is a mandatory survey from the US Census Bureau sent out yearly to a random sampling of 3 million households separate from the decennial census count. However, the current survey solicits unnecessary personal information. The American Community Survey Act would make the survey voluntary and only require people to answer four questions: a) name; b) contact info; c) date of response; d) number of people living or staying at the same address.After learning how intrusive the questions in the survey are, I feel that it is important that the Census Bureau stick to counting people and not intrude into the personal lives of the American people, said Congressman Poe. The primary purpose of the census is to enumerate our population, not inquire how much you pay for your utilities, if you have emotional problems or if you had a job last week. This legislation will eliminate these types of irrelevant questions and ensure our right to personal privacy. Under the U.S. Constitution, a count of the nations population is required to be conducted every ten years. This is not only a legitimate purpose, but essential in order to apportion representatives in Congress and direct taxes, said Congresswoman Bachmann. But throughout the years, additional questions of a more personal nature were added so that the federal government could have more detailed information to make and implement its ever-expanding public policy. A lot of Americans myself included have real concerns about the ultimate protection of our sensitive personal information. I am proud to partner with my colleague, Representative Poe, on this important initiative that respects the American peoples privacy.Please clickhere to view a sample of the currentAmerican CommunitySurvey.
06.25.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he secured $250,000 in funding under FEMAs Predisaster Mitigation account to allow for the purchase of a 2.5 megawatt diesel generating plant for CHRISTUS St. Elizabeth Hospital in Beaumont, Texas. Although the hospital has basic generator capabilities to sustain life support, Hurricanes Rita and Ike have proved that this basic capacity is insufficient, said Poe. During Hurricane Ike, 190 patients were unable to be evacuated and as commercial utilities were shut down, basic hospital operations were compromised. This funding is to ensure sanitary and safe conditions for both current and potential patients during disasters. The funding was included in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act FY 2010. In the event of another hurricane, the generator will make certain that the hospital remains serviceable by ensuring that power and water are functional, continued Poe. It is imperative that the hospital is able to maintain its mission of providing essential medical care to the residents of southeast Texas in times of disaster. Congressman Poe has been a leading advocate in Congress to secure federal funding for hurricane recovery in southeast Texas. In addition to securing funding for CHRISTUS St. Elizabeth Hospital, Congressman Poe also recently announced that Texas will receive $1.7 Billion in federal Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to aid in Hurricane Ike recovery. This is the second of three installments of federal funds to Hurricane Ike impacted states allocated by Congress in 2008.
06.25.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that four bills supporting our veterans passed the US House of Representatives this week. As our nation gets ready to celebrate another birthday, it is very fitting that this Congress recognize the indelible contributions and sacrifices made by our military heroes, said Poe. It is important that we continue to work to improve the health care and services we provide for them when the complete their service to our country. COSPONSORED LEGISLATION:HR 1016 Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009: Expresses the sense of Congress that the provision of health care services to veterans could be more effectively and efficiently planned and managed if funding was provided for the management and provision of such services in the form of advance appropriations. PASSED 409-1 HR 1211 Women Veterans Health Care Improvement Act Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: study barriers encountered by women veterans to the provision by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) of comprehensive health care; assess all health care services and programs provided by the VA for women veterans; provide graduate education, training and certification for mental health professionals who provide counseling, care, and services to women veterans suffering from sexual trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD); and carry out a pilot program of child care for certain women veterans receiving health care from VA facilities. Authorizes the Secretary to furnish hospital care and medical services to a newborn child of a woman veteran receiving VA maternity care for up to 14 days after the birth of the child. PASSED 408-0 HR 1172 To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to include on the Internet website of the Department of Veterans Affairs a list of organizations that provide scholarships to veterans and their survivors. PASSED 411-0 ADDITIONAL LEGISLATION:S.407 Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2009: Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to increase, as of December 1, 2009, the rates of veterans' disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and children. Requires each such increase to be the same percentage as the increase in benefits provided under title II (Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance) of the Social Security Act, on the same effective date. Codifies under federal law the rates of such compensation as increased under the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008. PASSED 403-0 In additional to this legislation, Congressman Poe is the SPONSOR of the following veterans-related legislation pending before the US House of Representatives in the 111th Congress:H.R.430 Lance Corporal Jeremy Burris Act To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide criminal penalties for the destruction of memorials, headstones, markers, and graves commemorating persons serving in the Armed Forces on private property. H.RES.495 - Recognizing and honoring the American troops who gave their lives on D-Day at the Battle of Normandy. H.RES.496 - Recognizing the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.
06.23.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that Lamar University and the Beaumont Independent School District have been awarded federal grant money totaling $284,051. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded Lamar University with $34,528 for the Scholarships for Disadvantaged Students program. This program provides scholarships to full-time, financially needy students from disadvantaged backgrounds, enrolled in health professions and nursing programs. In addition, Lamar University also received $4,767 for the Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship in May. The Beaumont ISD is slated to receive $244,756 in funding from HHS for the Head Start program. The Head Start program provides grants to local public and private non-profit and for-profit agencies to provide comprehensive child development services to economically disadvantaged children and families, with a special focus on helping preschoolers develop the early reading and math skills they need to be successful in school.For more information on Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) grants and funding please visit their website: http://www.hhs.gov/grants.
06.16.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will join the Childrens Assessment Center and federal, state, and local law enforcement to announce the Protecting Americas Children Act. This legislation aims to provide protection against the pre-trial release of an individual charged with a sexual offense against a minor who presents a flight risk or danger to society.Sexual offenses against children are among the most heinous crimes committed in our society, said Congressman Poe. Moreover, statistics show that child sexual predators often have multiple victims and continue to commit sexual offenses after their release from incarceration. We must not only ensure that those who perpetrate these crimes are swiftly and vigorously prosecuted, but must also prevent dangerous sex offenders from victimizing other children while awaiting trial.On Monday, Congressman Poe was joined by Elaine Stolte, Director, Childrens Assessment Center; Harris County Sheriff Adrian Garcia; HPD Assistant Chief Michael Durbin; Assistant US Attorney Brit Featherston, Eastern District of Texas; Gary Blankinship, President, Houston Police Officers Union; John Donovan, Harris County Judge Emmetts Office; and Amy Smith, Houston Crime Stoppers at a press conference to announce this important legislation. H.R. 2674 Protecting Americas Children Act of 2009: Prohibits the Attorney General from administering grant funds to a State or unit of local government that fails to certify that the laws of the State or local government provide adequate protection against the pre-trial release of an individual charged with a sexual offense against a minor who presents a flight risk or danger to society. Prior to serving in Congress, Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Harris County for 30 years. Judge Poe was recognized nationally for his creative punishment of criminals or Poetic Justice. Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus in Washington, DC advocating on behalf of victims in our nations capitol. Congressman Poe is a life-long advocate and supporter of victims, children and law enforcement issues and serves on the board of the Childrens Assessment Center in Houston, Texas.
06.12.2009	June 12th - starting at 12am through midnight - the nation's full-power television stations will complete their switch to all-digital programming. Comprehensive information about the DTV can be found at www.dtv.gov.
06.10.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he is cosponsoring the Automobile Dealer Economic Restoration Act. This legislation reinstates auto dealer franchise agreements prior to the bankruptcies of Chrysler and General Motors. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, said Poe. Our local car dealers not only employ thousands of people and generate millions of dollars in tax revenue, but they are also part of our communities most locally owned and operated for generations.Many of the dealerships have remained profitable despite Chryslers and GMs bankruptcies, continued Poe. This legislation will stop the arbitrary closure of dealerships and reinstate franchise agreements set forth by state franchise laws. H.R. 2743, The Automobile Dealer Economic Rights Restoration Act: Restores theprotections of state motor vehicle franchise laws toGeneral Motors and Chrysler dealers as they existed prior to each company's bankruptcies Preserves General Motors and Chrysler car dealers' rights to recourse under state law At the request of an automobile dealer, requiresGeneral Motors and Chryslerto reinstate franchise agreements in effect prior to each company's bankruptcies Makes clear that the legislation is not intended to void the court-ordered transfer of assets from Chryslerto New CarCo or the transfer of General Motors assets that could be approved by a court after the introduction of the Act.
06.09.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, joins co-chair Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) and other members of the Victims Rights Caucus and the Caucus for Missing and Exploited Children in recognizing the 25th Anniversary of the National Center for Missing Children (NCMEC). The resolution gained unanimous approval in the US House of Representatives. I'm proud to sponsor H. Res. 454, which recognizes the 25th anniversary of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, said Poe. As founder and co-chair of the Victims' Rights Caucus, along with my friend from California, Mr. Costa, I am thankful for the work that the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children does to protect the Nation's children. At the time the Center was founded 25 years ago, there were little or no resources available to assist law enforcement with the cases of missing children, continued Poe. In fact, there was no way for police to enter information about missing children into the FBI's national crime computer. Today, thanks to the work of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, this is no longer the case. President Reagan officially opened the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC) on June 13, 1984. Since 1990, NCMECs recovery rate of missing children has increased from 62 percent to 97 percent. NCMEC continues to work alongside law enforcement and the public to offer intervention and prevention services to assist in the cases of the more than 800,000 missing children in the United States each year.As founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus in Washington, DC, Congressman Poe continues his life-long advocacy on behalf of victims and children. Congressman Poe is a board member of the Childrens Assessment Center in Houston, Texas, and is recognized nationally for his leadership and advocacy for victims issues.For more information on Congressman Poe and the Victims Rights Caucus, please visit our website: www.poe.house.gov.
06.09.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that Texas will receive $1.7 Billion in federal Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to aid in Hurricane Ike recovery. This is the second of three installments of federal funds to Hurricane Ike impacted states allocated by Congress in 2008.I am glad to see that Texas received a large portion of the money allocated for Ike recovery, said Poe. However, it is long overdue and I will continue to work on a federal level to see that the needs of our local governments and families throughout southeast Texas get the federal assistance that they need and deserve. Unfortunately, the process has been too slow and complicated and too many communities are still faced with the mounting bills for clean up and recovery, but this money will help to address many of these issues.CDBG Disaster Recovery Assistance provides flexible grants to help cities, counties, and States recover from Presidentially declared disasters, especially in low-income areas. CDBG funds are allocated to the State of Texas and administered through their agencies. For more information about HUD Disaster Funding programs, please visit their website at http://www.hud.gov/news/release.cfm?content=pr09-084.cfm.
05.26.2009	The public should have concern with a Supreme Court nominee who has repeatedly advocated imposing her own science of social opinion in the courts rather than upholding the written laws.Sonia Sotomayor seems to have an unusually high reversal rate when her cases are brought before the Supreme Court who has repeatedly dressed her down for incorrectly interpreting the laws. To her credit, she does have courtroom experience as a trial judge in dealing with real people.
05.05.2009	May 5, 2009 marks the 145th anniversary of the Battle of the Wilderness, a 3 day battle that changed the course of the Civil War. Congressman Ted Poe proudly advocates for historic preservation of this land and decries the construction of a Wal-Mart supercenter proposed for the fringes of Virginias Wilderness Battlefield. If built, the megastore would stand less than a quarter mile from the edge of the national park commemorating the bloody struggle, and within the battlefields historic footprint. Poe, Welch and Duvall toured the battlefield yesterday and spoke at a news conference organized by the Civil War Preservation Trust and other groups dedicated to encouraging Wal-Mart to relocate its proposed store.Robert Duvall, Academy Award-winning actor and descendent of Confederate General Robert E. Lee, led the charge. The history that occurred on this spot sets it apart from every other crossroads in America. The ground was hallowed by the bloodshed of our ancestors and we are duty-bound to respect their sacrifice by protecting this site from inappropriate intrusions and development, said Duvall. Congressmen Poe teamed up with Representative Peter Welch of Vermont both of whom hail from states whose troops were particularly bloodied in the battle as well as Zann Miner, president of Friends of Wilderness Battlefield, a volunteer group that works with the Park Service to protect, pre-serve and interpret the battlefield. Although hailing from vastly different backgrounds, all four supporters of this charge agreed that the battlefields national historic significance necessitates its protection.There were 160,000 troops, Union and Confederate, who fought in the Battle of the Wilderness, Poe said. This is the number of troops that we have in Afghanistan and Iraq combined on that one battlefield. All of the troops that engaged in that battle were Americans and we must not allow corporate gain to diminish their sacrifice.The 1st Vermont Brigades brave stand at the Battle of the Wilderness exemplifies the spirit and sacrifice of Vermont troops in all conflicts our country has faced. This hallowed ground must be protected and preserved so that future generations of Vermonters can appreciate our states crucial role in saving the Union, Welch said. I appreciate the historical comments my friend from Vermont has said regarding Union troops from his home state. The Battle of the Wilderness took place in May 1864. On the second day of the 3 day battle with a statement made by General Lee, Texans always move them, the Texas Brigade successfully forced back Grants Union troops. Texas troops sustained 60 percent casualties. Alternate sites are being promoted by the Wilderness Battlefield Coalition, a collection of local, state and national conservation groups that seeks to promote the battlefield as both a historic site and as a potential economic engine for the region. We are not calling for a halt to development in Orange County far from it, said Zann Miner, president of Friends of Wilderness Battlefield. Instead, we simply ask county officials and developers to weigh all options and their consequences before breaking ground. Miner reports that in order to reap the financial rewards that numerous studies have shown historic sites can bring through heritage tourism, nearby development must be well-thought-out and respectful, calling the Wal-Mart proposal neither. In February, Representatives Poe and Welch sent a joint letter to Wal-Mart executives, urging them to reconsider their site choice. We hope they would be patriotic neighbors and locate their new store on one of the other two nearby locations, added Poe.The application before county officials calls for a 52-acre retail complex near the intersection of Routes 3 and 20, less than a quarter mile from the edge of the Wilderness Battlefield unit of Fredericksburg and Spotsylvania National Military Park. The project would contain several box stores, anchored by a 138,000-square-foot Wal-Mart Supercenter. Preservationists have asked the county to work with the Park Service, conservation groups and local landowners to develop a long-term vision for the area before approving this or any other single construction project.Regarding the need for deliberate and cohesive action rather than piecemeal expansion, Duvall said, I urge Orange Countys decision makers to plan the development they allow at the edge of this national park carefully. The choices they make will be felt for generations to come, making this the time to be thoughtful and deliberate, not rash.The Battle of the Wilderness, fought on May 56, 1864, was among the most significant engagements of the Civil War. It marked the first time that legendary generals Robert E. Lee and Ulysses S. Grant faced each other in battle and was the inaugural engagement of the long and bloody Overland Campaign, the beginning of the end for the beleaguered Confederacy. The area was densely wooded, making the fighting confused, especially as sparks from ammunition and ordinance caught the undergrowth on fire. When fighting ended, more than 29,000 Americans had been killed, wounded or captured. This land, like other battlefields in our country, is consecrated with the blood of Americans. Many are still buried there and known only to God. We owe these Americans the right to keep this battlefield preserved for history and not to have a corporation, like Wal-Mart, lay asphalt over their graves. The land that is here will be here long after we and Wal-Mart are long gone. We have learned through a tour of the battlefield that many Texans and Vermonters fought against each other. But, today Vermont and Texas, Democrats and Republicans, the North and the South are united because every person who died in the Battle of the Wilderness was an American, said Poe.
04.30.2009	The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is confirming cases of the swine influenza A (H1N1) in Texas. For the most current information, visit the CDC website at www.cdc.gov/flu/swine or call 1-800-CDC-INFO. As the CDC officials have noted that the virus incubation period appears to be 2-5 days, I support closing the border with Mexico for at least three days and then monitor the status day-by-day.
04.29.2009	Reps. Costa and Poe Announce Passage Of National Crime Victims' Rights Week Act Act Designates April 26th to May 2nd As National Crime Victims Rights WeekWASHINGTON, D.C. Today, Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) announced that House Resolution 109, the National Crime Victims Rights Week Act of 2009 passed the House by a vote of 422 to 0. This act designates the week of April 26th as National Crime Victims Rights Week to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime in the United States. It also celebrates the 25th anniversary of the enactment of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984.Crime victims are our sons, daughters, and our friends and neighbors, said Costa. When they are in need of assistance after a crime, they should not be met with a closed door, but open arms. This year, we mark the 25th anniversary of the enactment of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984, better known as VOCA. This legislation has supported rights and services for crime victims for the last 25 years, and has done it without the use of a single dime from the American taxpayer.During the 25th anniversary of National Crime Victims Rights Week, community leaders and organizations recognize the importance of victims rights, said Poe. The week honors both crime victims and the individuals who advocate for them every day. This years anniversary is especially important as it serves as a reminder that it is the same United States Constitution that protects the rights of offenders that also protects the rights of victims. Without justice for victims, we do not have justice at all.As co-chairmen and co-founders of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Costa and Poe have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims rights to the forefront in Congress. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation and amendments to help bring more debate to the issue, as well as protecting the Victims of Crime Act fund and the Violence Against Women Act from being raided by the Administration.
04.23.2009	Rep. Costa Co-Hosts 2009 Victims Rights Caucus Awards Alliance Against Family Violence And Sexual Assault Of Bakersfield Is Co-Recipient Of The Ed Stout AwardWASHINGTON, D.C. Yesterday, Congressmen Jim Costa (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) joined members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus to honor this years outstanding individuals that have given countless hours of their time and service to helping victims of crime. Costa and Poe co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus in 2005.All of these recipients are those who selflessly give time and compassion to others who have suffered from a violent crime or domestic violence, said Costa. Crime knows no boundary or demographic, and victims of crime can be our family, friends or neighbors. Our winners this year go above and beyond the call of duty in helping victims and survivors of crime through very traumatic time periods.Quiet heroes are those victim advocates that help people when crime is committed against them. These advocates go out of their way to help victims regain dignity and physical and mental strength, said Poe. While there are hundreds of victim advocates, today we honor a select few who have risen in a time of need and stand strong. The 2009 Victims Rights Caucus RecipientsEd Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault. The Alliance represents everything that Ed Stout worked so hard for during his work on behalf of crime victims and survivors. They are a nonprofit, grassroots organization that since 1979 has provided support and services to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault in Kern County and the surrounding area. These services are free, and are bilingual, which serves Kern Countys diverse ethnic background. Their strong focus on assisting victims of violence against women in rural areas is remarkable. The Alliance Against Family Violence and Sexual Assault was nominated by Costa.Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Sheryl Cates. Ms. Sheryl Cates has spent the last 25 years advocating for victims of domestic violence at all levels. As Executive Director at Womens Protective Services in Lubbock, TX, Sheryl worked directly with victims as well as supervising staff who provide services to victims. Also, as CEO of the Texas council on Family Violence, National Domestic Violence Hotline and loveisrespect.org National Teen Dating Abuse Helpline, Sheryl is recognized nationally as an expert in the field of domestic violence and as someone who can be counted on to participate in any efforts to support the needs of victims and their families. Cates was nominated by Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX-21)Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award Katherine Cabaniss. Ms. Cabaniss is the Executive Director of Houston Crime Stoppers. As a former Assistant District Attorney, she has a passion for preventing and fighting crime. During her time with Crime Stoppers, Ms. Cabaniss has built strategic alliances with people and organizations that assist victims of crime, including local school districts, apartment property management companies, and womens shelters. She has strengthened Crime Stoppers relationship with the media, and in doing so, has used her voice to promote safe communities and justice for victims of crime. Cabaniss was nominated by Representative Ted Poe (R-TX-02). Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation Steve Twist. Mr. Twist has worked tirelessly to ensure that every jurisdiction in America provides victims with rights in the criminal justice system and that those rights are enforceable by the individual victim. He has worked as counsel to the Navajo Nation, aiding in the drafting of various victim provisions, and is the principal author of the Arizona constitutional amendment for victims rights and the Arizona Victims Rights Implementation Act, which together are the strongest victims rights legal provisions in the country. Mr. Twist was nominated by Congressman John Shadegg (R-AZ-03) Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Jenny Wieland. Jenny Wielands 17 year old daughter and only child was murdered by another teen in 1992. She turned her pain into purpose and has worked tirelessly to reduce youth violence, in hopes that other mothers would not have to experience the loss of a child to a violent crime. In 1994, Jenny Wieland became a founding board member of Mothers Against Violence in America (MAVIA). In early 1995, she left a career as an insurance broker to become MAVIAs Program Director and first employee. During her seven-year tenure with MAVIA, she helped create and implement MAVIAs many national and local programs, including the acclaimed Washington State model of Day of National Concern About Young People and Gun Violence, which encourages young Americans in classrooms and communities across the country to sign the Student Pledge Against Gun Violence. Currently, Wieland is serving as Executive Director of Families and Friends of Violent Crime Victims in Washington State. Wieland was nominated by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA-08)Allied Professional Award Michael Davis, President of Appriss, Inc. Michael Davis is the co-founder and president of Appriss, the provider of local, state and federal automated victim information and notification services and automated victim protection order services. In 1994, Mary Byron was murdered on her 21st birthday by her former boyfriend who was in jail in Louisville, Kentucky. Mary and her parents asked to be notified if and when he was released, which did not happen. In response to this preventable tragedy, Davis and his partner created VINE (Victim Information and Notification Everyday), which provides confidential, around-the-clock notifications to victims about the status of their offenders. VINE keeps crime victims and survivors informed and involved in their cases, in turn promoting personal and community safety. Today, Appriss provides VINE and related services to more than 75% of our nation. States participating in the Statewide Automated Victim Information and Notification (SAVIN) grant program have entrusted Appriss as their technology provider. Davis was nominated by Representative John Yarmuth (D-KY-03).
04.16.2009	Congressman TED POE (TX-02) made the following statement in response to the Department of Homeland Securitys report on right wing extremism.My office has already received several calls from individuals who are disappointed with the apparent demonization of people who disagree with the administration. The opinions reported by the Department of Homeland Security label folks as the radical right, including returning military and anyone advocating gun rights under the 2nd Amendment, Poe said. The Department of Homeland Security would do well to invest time and dollars to seek out those who terrorize American citizens and not those who defend our nation and support the Bill of Rights.
04.15.2009	I agree with Governor Perry in support of the 10th Amendment. Because Texas was once an independent nation, state pride and independence run deeper than any other state in the Union. We have always been leery of federal mandates that cost taxpayers money, do little good and take away personal liberties. Our forefathers knew what they were doing when they granted each state individual rights and as Texans, and Americans, it is important that we dont allow the federal government to run rough-shot over those rights and above all we need to let Texans take care of Texas. After all, we are the Lone Star State.
04.01.2009	Dear Secretary Napolitano:We are writing in support of Texas Governor Rick Perrys request for more federal assistance and resources on the U.S. Mexico border in Texas outlined in a letter to you dated February 26, 2009. The situation along the border right now is dire and we cannot afford to wait until the violence spills over into America before we take action to protect the citizens of the United States. Governor Perry has requested your assistance in providing at the very least an extra 1,000 title 32 National Guard positions to be utilized in support of civilian law enforcement authorities. He has also requested additional aviation assets in the form of six OH-58 helicopters equipped with Forward Looking Infrared Radar for night operations. We also share the Governors belief that state and local law enforcement should be supported and given the resources needed to help leverage existing federal capabilities. We urge you to act swiftly on these urgent needs. Violence in Mexico has escalated to very high levels recently as Mexican organized drug cartels fight for control of the lucrative drug and human smuggling market. Your predecessor recently acknowledged that your Department has a contingency plan in place should the violence spill over into the United States. We believe this is not a matter of if but when and we strongly urge you to take those steps now to ensure the safety of our state and its residents. The U.S. Joint Forces Command said in a recent report that Mexico rivals Pakistan as the country most at risk of collapse and foreign policy experts have noted that Mexico has surpassed Colombia as the kidnapping capital of the world. The Mexican government has taken great strides recently in combating corruption and the drug cartels, but the cartels have proven they have the upper hand along the border region right now and the Mexican government does not have the ability yet to contain the violence. Just last year alone nearly 6,000 people were murdered in Mexico with almost a third of that number coming in Ciudad Juarez, across the Texas border from El Paso. Projections for 2009 are even more staggering. News reports show that on average one American a week is killed in Mexico. Last week, Octavio Manuel Carrillo, mayor of Vista Hermosa, President Felipe Calderon's home state, was ambushed and murdered outside his home. It was the second assassination attempt of Carrillo in eight days and the second murder of the citys mayor in the last eight months. Unfortunately this is not an isolated instance. Hundreds of police officers and other elected officials slain in Nuevo Laredo, Juarez and other Mexican border towns have resulted in unmitigated violence and lawlessness in the region.Mexico has been a valued and long-time trade partner of the United States. The Mexican culture is interwoven into the history of the State of Texas and its people; making it more imperative than ever to address this problem for the future stability and safety of our state, Mexico, and the United States. Again, we ask that you give your most urgent attention to the request by Governor Perry. It is the responsibility and the constitutional duty of the United States government to protect its citizens. We look forward to your prompt response.
04.01.2009	Dear Mr. Duke:We write to you with profound disappointment in your companys decision to locate a new store near The Wilderness battlefield in Virginia and urge your immediate reconsideration.While we may represent different political parties and states on opposing sides of the Civil War, we stand united in our support of respecting hallowed ground such as The Wilderness battlefield. The Wilderness, as well as other battlegrounds throughout the United States, represents the great struggles and sacrifices our soldiers made to defend freedoms they cherished deeply enough to risk their lives. Four thousand men on both sides died and twenty thousand were wounded during this battle in the spring of 1864. These lands and lands near them should always be spared from commercial development. Further, the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission, formed by Congress to protect the historical significance of our nations Civil War sites, has defined your proposed land for development as part of The Wilderness battlefield. There are countless other locations your company could consider for a more responsibly sited development in this region. We feel the definition of corporate responsibility must always extend to respecting storied lands and respecting a communitys natural landscape and surroundings when choosing a site for a store. Those values should not be eroded for the sake of commercial gain. We urge you to listen to feedback youve received from groups close to The Wilderness battlefield and others who care deeply about keeping this nations history and lands preserved and look elsewhere for development. We look forward to your response.Sincerely,Congressman Ted Poe and Congressman Peter Welch
03.25.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) appealed to President Barack Obama today to grant a full pardon to former Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. As a former judge and prosecutor for 30 years, I am well-informed of the law and circumstances pertaining to this case, stated Poe. The severity of the charges and harshness of the punishment given to these men was completely disproportionate to the violation in question. Although they were released early from federal prison, they still have criminal records. This shouldnt be so.Mr. Ramos and Mr. Compean were prosecuted and convicted for shooting an undocumented drug smuggler near the U.S. Mexico border in Texas and were sentenced to over ten years in prison. After serving two years of their sentences, President George W. Bush commuted their sentences on January 19, 2009.This week, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal. As a result, the appeals process has been exhausted and Congressman Poe has asked President Obama to use his exclusive authority given under Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution to pardon the former agents.This case has had a demoralizing effect on the men and women who defend America at our border, Poe continued. It sends the wrong message to criminals seeking to do our nation harm. Our border agents must not have hesitation before using their weapons in defense of our laws and borders. The results of this incident are unfortunate, yet the unintended consequences are far reaching and warrant your immediate intervention to restore safety and security at the border. Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee, Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee; House Foreign Affairs Committee. Prior to be elected to Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and criminal court judge in Houston, Texas for 30 years.
03.12.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was joined by all 20 Texas Republican Members of Congress in supporting Texas Governor Rick Perrys request to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano for federal assistance along the Texas Mexico Border. The entire Texas delegation met with Governor Perry in Washington, DC today to discuss this issue and other matters important to the State of Texas.I just returned from the front lines along the Texas Mexico border, said Poe. It is no longer a matter of when the violence and crime will spill over into the United States it has already happened. In Hudspeth County, all but one of the 125 inmates in the county jail last weekend were here illegally and all being held on drug-related charges. Our local towns and communities along the border are baring the brunt of the drug war and the time to act is long overdue. It is the responsibility and the constitutional duty of the United States government to protect its citizens.Governor Perry recently called on DHS to support a unified local, state and federal effort to secure the border in light of the overwhelming violence spreading across the region resulting from the warring drug cartels in Mexico. The letter reiterates congressional support to honor Governor Perrys request for DHS assistance in providing at the very least an extra 1,000 title 32 National Guard positions to be utilized in support of civilian law enforcement authorities and an additional aviation assets in the form of six OH-58 helicopters equipped with Forward Looking Infrared Radar for night operations. We also share the Governor's belief that state and local law enforcement should be supported and given the resources needed to help leverage existing federal capabilities, the delegation letter states. We urge you to act swiftly on these urgent needs.Congressman Poe has long called for federal involvement in securing our southern border and federal support of local and state law enforcement faced with the day-to-day crime committed in their towns and communities as a result of an unsecured border. Mexico has been a valued and long-time trade partner of the United States. The Mexican culture is interwoven into the history of the State of Texas and its people; making it more imperative than ever to address this problem for the future stability and safety of our state, Mexico, and the United States, the letter urged.In 2007, nearly 6,000 people were murdered in Mexico with almost a third of that number occurring in Ciudad Juarez, across the Texas border from El Paso, and projections for 2009 are even more staggering. News reports show that on average one American a week is killed in Mexico. The U.S. Joint Forces Command said in a recent report that Mexico rivals Pakistan as the country most at risk of collapse and foreign policy experts have noted that Mexico has surpassed Colombia as the kidnapping capital of the world.Congressman Poe regularly travels to the border to meet with local law enforcement. Poe has sponsored and cosponsored numerous bills pertaining to border security. For more on this legislation, floor speeches and other related items, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/Issues/Issue/?IssueID=2295 Before serving Texas 2nd Congressional District, Congressman Poe was a prosecutor and criminal court judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years. Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and his life-long dedication to victims, children and law enforcement.
03.09.2009	Representatives Gene Green and Ted Poe today announced that $50 million dollars from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will be sent to the Harris County Toll Road Authority to begin construction on the final 13-mile segment of the Sam Houston Tollway - Beltway 8 (BW 8) Northeast project. The direct connectors from BW 8 to U.S. 59 will serve approximately 2.5 million residents in northern Harris and southern Montgomery counties. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was designed to invest in infrastructure and create jobs, and I am proud to say that thousands of jobs will be created by this project in a region that suffers not only for the effects of the current economic downturn, but that is still reeling from Hurricane Ike, said Rep. Green.While I opposed wasteful spending in the stimulus bill, I am glad to see that worthwhile projects such as this direct connectors project received the funding it has long deserved, said Poe. I would like to thank Congressman Green for his collaboration and hard work on this important project. This is vital transportation project to our area and a major benefit to both the quality of life for area residents and our economy.While the project calls for the construction of four direct connectors and a budget of $100 million, the funds will be used to begin construction on two of the four connectors of the project. This funding will curtail the lag time between the completion of the main lines of the Tollway and the direct connectors that will allow access to and from U.S. 59. These direct connectors are a vital component to easing traffic congestion in the northern part of the region. Congressman Poe and I have collaborated to make this important project a priority, said Green. The Port of Houston will also benefit from decreased congestion and increased highway access that will allow shippers to economically transport their goods from the Port and expand business activity in the area.
03.04.2009	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that his Resolution designating March 2009 as National Criminal Justice Month unanimously passed the US House of Representatives, 415-0. H. Res. 45, encourages community leaders and organizations to educate and to promote discussion on the causes and consequences of crime, as well as how to prevent and respond to crime. It also provides an opportunity to recognize and applaud the efforts of law enforcement officials, judges, court staff, and the many probation officers who work with offenders to help them reintegrate into the community. As a former prosecutor and judge, I have been honored to be involved in the criminal justice system for 30 years, said Poe. These brave and dedicated American public servants work every day to make our country safe for ourselves and our families. It is our hope that National Criminal Justice Month encourages community leaders and organizations to educate and to promote discussion on the causes and consequences of crime, as well as how to prevent and respond to crime.It is also important to recognize the gains that we have made in combating crime across the nation. Crime rates have dropped dramatically since the early 1990s, but, surprisingly, most Americans believe that the rate of crime is increasing. Passing this resolution should go a long way towards dispelling that myth. Three million Americans are employed within the criminal justice system, seven million adults are on probation, parole, or imprisoned, and millions of Americans face the expensive and often painful aftermath of victimization. The Bureau of Justice Statistics recently concluded that 35% of Americans have little or no confidence in the criminal justice system.Our nations criminal justice system impacts everyone, said Poe. As founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, I believe that it is important to recognize that criminals are not the only ones affected by the criminal justice system. Victims are forced into the system and the impact on their lives by the experience is life-altering.Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims and children. ###
02.26.2009	Congressman Ted Poe Files DRILL NOW ActGives States Drilling Options and Revenue SharingWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02 filed the Developing Resources Immediately and Long-Term through Leases on Our Nations Offshore Waters Act of 2009 (DRILL NOW ACT of 2009) this week to allow individual states the option of drilling off their shores while sharing in the revenues generated by the expanded exploration. This is a win-win bill that allows for further exploration while rewarding states that want to control their own energy supply and continue respecting the environment, said Poe. The DRILL NOW Act allows states to decide on drilling off their shores and share in the millions of dollars that are paid to the federal government for these leases. Make no mistake, drilling offshore will reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy and can be done with zero impact to the environment. Doing so will provide billions in revenue to the federal government for clean and alternative energy research and provide billions in revenue to many cash-strapped state governments, continued Poe. I have been to the outermost platform in the Gulf of Mexico, the infrastructure is there, built and operated by the best-of-the-best in the energy industry, and Americans can see results in less than two years.DRILL NOW Act of 2009:Ends any authority a president can use to issue future moratoriums; except as the President determines necessary for military operations or national security purposes.Allows states, who pass a law allowing drilling off their coasts, to receive 40 percent of the royalty revenue collected by the federal government on leases up to 50 miles off their coasts.This royalty revenue can be used for any purpose they choose; such as education, transportation projects, healthcare, etc.Allows 30 percent of the royalty revenue on these leases to be deposited in a clean and alternative energy fund which can be used to expand future energy sources nationwide, in addition to petroleum and natural gas, such as biomass, geothermal, hydrogen, fuel cells, solar, wind, and hydropower. Allows payments of revenues to states with current leases within 50 miles off their coasts, who pass state laws providing for drilling, to be compensated at the same 40 percent rate. According to the Minerals Management Service, the most promising areas for new supplies of oil (86 billion barrels) and gas (420 trillion cubic feet) continue to be offshore. Congressman Poe filed similar legislation in the 110th Congress to allow additional offshore drilling and revenue sharing. For more information on this issue, including additional legislation, speeches and opinion editorials, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/Issues/Issue/?IssueID=2287###
02.25.2009	HURRICANE IKE SIX MONTHS LATER Hurricane Ike hit the upper Texas Gulf Coast at 2:10 a.m. on Sept. 13, 2008. Nearly six months into the response and recovery effort, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) continues to work vigorously in support of the state of Texas and individual Texans.Along the way, FEMA and its partners have reached many important milestones. Debris clean-up in eligible areas is 95 percent complete, the direct housing mission is 97 percent complete and inspections of damaged homes are 99.9 percent complete. More importantly, more than $1.74 billion in federal and state financial assistance has poured into the states disaster-designated counties.Following is a quick look at the numbers (as of March 9) associated with Hurricane Ike in the nearly six months since the storm made landfall. 1 Hurricane Ike was the No. 1 natural disaster in Texas in 2008. 2 Ike made landfall as a Category 2 hurricane. Its maximum winds of 110 mph barely missed making Ike a Category 3 storm. Wind gusts hit 125 mph. 12 FEMA specialists in the field have offered assistance in more than a dozen languages and dialects, including Spanish, Vietnamese, Korean and American Sign Language. 17 According to National Weather Service estimates, the highest storm surge caused by Hurricane Ike reached 17 feet and possibly 20 feet in some areas. 37 FEMA has responded to 37 disasters nationwide in just the six months since Hurricane Ike struck. 50+1 A total of 50 Texas counties and one tribal nation (Alabama-Coushatta) are eligible for Public Assistance as a result of the presidential disaster declaration. Thirty-four counties and the tribal nation are eligible for Individual Assistance. 74 As a result of Hurricane Ike, 74 people lost their lives in Texas, according to the Texas Department of State Health Services. 78 On Nov. 15, 2008, 78 Texas households moved into FEMA manufactured homes in one day. Today, more than 3,500 households are in temporary housing units, and the direct housing mission is 97 percent complete. 89 State, volunteer and federal resources opened 89 points of distribution throughout the disaster area to provide meals, water, ice and other essential commodities. 100 The federal government has agreed to fund 100 percent of eligible debris removal until April 26, 2009. To date, nearly 20.1 million cubic yards of debris have been removed from eligible areas affected by the disaster. Thats a debris pile as big as a football field and nearly eight times the height of the Empire State Building. 100 The federal government has agreed to fund 100 percent of eligible debris removal until April 26, 2009. To date, nearly 20.1 million cubic yards of debris have been removed from eligible areas affected by the disaster. Thats a debris pile as big as a football field and nearly eight times the height of the Empire State Building. 130 FEMA has operated more than 130 Disaster Recovery Centers, assisting nearly 158,000 people, throughout the affected area. 500 Ike was a massive hurricane when it hit Texas. The storm system was more than 500 miles wide, including a band of hurricane-force winds about 165 miles wide. Ikes eye alone was about 46 miles wide. 3,540 Search and rescue teams coordinated by the Texas Governors Division of Emergency Management rescued more than 3,540 Texans and helped an additional 5,798 people evacuate from extremely dangerous situations. 9,500 The U.S. Small Business Administration has approved more than 9,500 low-interest disaster loans to businesses, individuals and private nonprofit organizations. 26,244 The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers installed 26,244 Blue Roofs on residences hit by Hurricane Ike following the disaster. 35,000 Nearly 35,000 Texans have been assisted under the Transitional Sheltering Assistance (TSA) program. The program has paid nearly $93 million for the hotel stays of Ike victims who had no housing alternative. 42,000 The counties designated for assistance in the presidentially declared disaster area cover nearly 42,000 square miles. That is almost the size of the entire state of Tennessee. 86,500 FEMAs Hazard Mitigation Community Education and Outreach Group has handed out more than 86,500 FEMA publications, including some in multiple languages, at home improvement stores, community centers and elsewhere. 400,000 More than 400,000 housing inspections have been completed. Thats 99.9 percent of the inspection orders issued. 734,000 More than 734,000 individuals and families registered with FEMA in the months following the disaster. 6.4 Million FEMA has provided more than $6.4 million in Disaster Unemployment Assistance to individuals who have been unable to work because of the disaster. The program helps people not normally covered by unemployment insurance. 10 Million Federal and state assistance to the Hurricane Ike recovery effort has averaged nearly $10 million per day since Day One of the disaster. 17 Million During the early days of the disaster FEMA and the state of Texas delivered more than 17 million meals and 16 million liters of water to points of distribution throughout the affected areas. 114 Million More than $114 million has been disbursed to help meet serious disaster-related expenses not covered by insurance and other aid programs. The Other Needs Assistance program provides funding for personal property, moving and storage, transportation, medical expenses and burial costs. 355 Million A total of $355 million is expected to be set aside for the Hurricane Ike Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP). Already approved through the states fast-track HMGP program is a $6.9 million grant for the acquisition of 57 flood-prone homes in Jefferson County. 394 Million More than $394 million is in the hands of eligible applicants affected by Hurricane Ike for temporary housing assistance and home repairs. 555 Million FEMA has obligated more than $555 million in Public Assistance funds for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and repairs of roads and bridges, public buildings and utilities, recreational areas and other public infrastructure. 578 Million The U.S. Small Business Administration has approved more than $578 million in low-interest disaster loans to homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations. 1.74 Billion In just the six months since Hurricane Ike struck, more than $1.74 billion has been approved to help Texas residents, businesses and communities that suffered loss or damage in the storm. Thats 1.74 BILLION DOLLARS! Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status.If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). For TTY call 800-462-7585. FEMAs temporary housing assistance and grants for public transportation expenses, medical and dental expenses, and funeral and burial expenses do not require individuals to apply for an SBA loan. However, applicants who receive SBA loan applications must submit them to SBA loan officers to be eligible for assistance that covers personal property, vehicle repair or replacement, and moving and storage expenses. The SBA is the federal governments primary source of money for the long-term rebuilding of disaster-damaged private property. SBA helps homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private nonprofit organizations fund repair or rebuilding efforts, and cover the cost of replacing lost or disaster-damaged personal property. These disaster loans cover uninsured and uncompensated losses and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. For information about SBA programs, applicants may call 1-800-659-2955, or TTY 1-800-877-8339. FEMA leads and supports the nation in a risk-based, comprehensive emergency management system of preparedness, protection, response, recovery, and mitigation, to reduce the loss of life and property and protect the nation from all hazards including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters. The response and recovery operation in Texas, just prior to and following the onslaught of Hurricane Ike, gave the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and its partners an opportunity to use new, creative ideas, test pilot projects, launch innovative housing initiatives and offer program adjustments and extensions. FIRSTS Deaf Link. FEMA used special communications equipment at a FEMA/State Disaster Recovery Center to help applicants with hearing impairments apply for disaster assistance. The first recovery center to use this technology called Deaf Link was in Houston at the Ellington Joint Reserve Base. Alternate Manufactured Housing. Some Texans displaced from their homes as a result of Hurricane Ike were the first to occupy a new type of manufactured home built especially for FEMA under a new initiative. The new models, which have two bedrooms, one bathroom and about 616 square feet of living space, are sleeker than the mobile homes and larger than the park models. More important, these homes are made with products that emit no or low amounts of formaldehyde. Rental Repair Pilot Program. This pilot program was launched in Texas for the first time after Hurricane Ike. Under the program, FEMA worked with a landlord to fund the cost of repairing 32 units in a hurricane-damaged Galveston complex for use by displaced Texans. Combination of Recovery Centers. More than 130 Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC) (mobile and stationary) and Mobile Registration Intake Centers (MRIC) were opened in the hurricane-impacted areas. The MRICs provided disaster victims with a place to go to use phones or computers to register with FEMA. The DRCs provided face-to-face assistance at stationary locations or on buses that traveled to the affected areas. ACCOMPLISHMENTS While Texans were evacuating, FEMA launched its Transitional Sheltering Assistance(TSA) program for temporary stays in hotels. Nearly 35,000 Texans were assisted under the TSA initiative. A Texas Joint Housing Solutions Task Force was created almost immediately after the storm to look at housing options and solutions for victims. Housing inspectors began assessing damages resulting from Ike just 24 hours after the storm. In less than a week the first four Disaster Recovery Centers opened to provide direct assistance to Hurricane Ike victims. During the first week after the storm, FEMA Individual Assistance specialists started working with the state of Texas to confirm the locations of mobile home parks in the region. By the second week after the storm hit, FEMA installed the first of more than 3,500 manufactured homes in private, commercial and community parks for displaced Texans. Ten days after the hurricane, FEMA signed an interagency agreement with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for a Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP-Ike) for eligible applicants. New media technology was fully used. Social networks such as Twitter and YouTube were used to share information, along with field-produced webisodes and downloadable radio clips. More than 100 FEMA Community Relations specialists were on hand before the storm hit - including speakers of Spanish, Korean, Lation and Vietnamese - supporting shelter operations by tracking needs and relaying information to state officials. MEETING CONTINUING NEEDS Texas received several cost-share adjustments for debris removal. In the end, the state was granted 100 percent debris removal reimbursement from Sept. 13, 2008, to April 26, 2009. The Transitional Sheltering Assistance initiative was extended three times. It was scheduled to end after just one month, but was extended until March 13, 2009. The Fema Registration period was extended 4 times. The usual 60 day period lasted 5 months. Information contributed by Kristin Barrs, Congressman Poe's District Director
02.25.2009	Congressman Ted Poe Pays Tribute to Fallen Law Enforcement OfficersResolution Recognizes National Peace Officers Memorial DayWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his legislation honoring National Peace Officers Memorial Day unanimously passed the US House of Representatives, 416-0.Each year, the President issues a Proclamation naming May 15th as National Peace Officer Memorial Day. Congressman Poes resolution supports the goals and ideals of this day and calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect.We are grateful for the selfless service of this nations law enforcement officers, said Poe. Americans have been protected by peace officers for the past 217 years. They protect our lives and our property regardless of the dangers to themselves. Not a day goes by that law enforcement officers do not face danger in their mission to keep us safe from crime, acts of violence and terrorism.There are more than 900,000 sworn law enforcement offices serving in the United States. In 2008, 140 officers gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 18,340 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty since the first recorded police death in 1792. Of the 140 that lost their live sin 2008, fourteen were from Texas: Deputy Constable David Joubert, Harris County Constable's Office - Precinct 7Police Officer Matthew B. Thebeau, Corpus Christi Police DepartmentCorporal Harry Thielepape, Harris County Constable's Office - Precinct 6Senior Corporal Victor A. Lozada Sr., Dallas Police DepartmentTrooper James Scott Burns, Texas Department of Public Safety - Texas Highway PatrolPolice Officer Everett William Dennis, Carthage Police DepartmentSergeant Barbara Jean Shumate, Texas Department of Criminal JusticePolice Officer Gary Gryder, Houston Police DepartmentDetective Tommy Keen, Harris County Sheriff's DepartmentGame Warden George Harold Whatley Jr., Texas Parks and Wildlife DepartmentSheriff Brent Lee, Trinity County Sheriff's DepartmentPolice Officer Robert Davis, San Antonio Police DepartmentPolice Officer Timothy Abernethy, Houston Police DepartmentPolice Officer Mark Simmons, Amarillo Police DepartmentA quote by President George H.W. Bush is engraved on the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, DC that states that it is an officers continuing quest to preserve both democracy and decency and to protect a national treasure that we call the American dream.It is clear this quest is worthy of the respect that our citizens show for their police officers, continued Poe. This yearly tribute to law enforcement officers provides each of us with an opportunity to honor those who lost their lives while protecting the citizens of this country.H. Res. 47 - National Peace Officers Memorial Day(1)supports the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day to honor federal, state, and local peace officers killed or disabled in the line of duty; and (2) calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect. Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims, children and law enforcement agencies.###
02.17.2009	INVASION USARamos, Compean freed from prisonCongressman calls for probe of prosecutor, role of Mexico Posted: February 17, 20091:16 pm EasternBy Jerome R. Corsi2009WorldNetDaily Convicted former Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were released from federal prison this morning and are en route to join their families in El Paso, Texas. Characterizing Ramos and Compean's incarceration as a "political prosecution," Rep. Ted Poe, R-Texas, called for a congressional investigation into alleged prosecutorial misconduct by El Paso U.S. Attorney Johnny Sutton under the direction of Bush administration Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. Poe also called for an investigation into the alleged role of the Mexican government in demanding that Ramos and Compean be prosecuted. "As soon as President Bush commuted Ramos and Compean's sentences, the Mexican government registered a large protest," Poe noted. "In their protest, the Mexican government admitted their involvement in the case without specifying what their involvement was," he added. "So I think the first order of business is for the U.S. Congress to investigate what role the Mexican government had in demanding the Bush administration prosecute this case," he insisted. "Mexico should not be meddling into U.S. criminal cases." Poe also told WND his office intends to petition President Obama to pardon Ramos and Compean in the administration's first round of presidential pardons After serving two years in federal prison in solitary confinement for shooting a fleeing Mexican drug smuggler who had brought 750 pounds of marijuana into the U.S., Ramos and Compean are being released into home confinement until March 20, the end of their commuted sentences. As WND reported, the agents' original sentences of 11 and 12-years respectively were commuted by President Bush on his final full day in office, Jan. 19. Until March 20, both are restrained from speaking with the press. After their release from home confinement, Ramos and Compean will be on "supervised release," similar to "probation," for a period of up to three years. Ramos was incarcerated in Phoenix and Compean in Elkton, Ohio. "At last, Ramos and Compean have been rightfully reunited with their families," said Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., another member of the House of Representatives at the forefront of the fight to free the men. "I wish the Ramos and Compean families the best as they now try to pick up the pieces and begin to heal from this terrible ordeal." Poe charged Ramos and Compean "were incarcerated as political prisoners of our own country." "Both Border Patrol agents were doing their jobs on the border," he told WND. Poe had harsh words for prosecutor Sutton and Attorney General Gonzales. "Our own government took the side of the drug dealer, found him in Mexico, brought him back and treated his wound at taxpayer expense," the congressman said. "The government made a back room deal with the drug dealer by telling him that in exchange for his testimony against Ramos and Compean, he would be given immunity for that offense." Poe charged that Sutton's office intentionally misled the jury at the trial. "The prosecution misled the jury and the American public by not allowing the jury at the Ramos and Compean trial to know that the government had reason to believe the drug smuggler in the case, (Osvaldo) Aldrete-Davila, had been implicated in a second drug smuggling incident before the trial began," Poe stressed. WND was among the first to report that Aldrete-Davila committed a second drug offense, smuggling a second load of 750 pounds of marijuana across the border while he was given immunity by Sutton's office and in possession of a border-pass card authorized by the Department of Homeland Security. WND also reported Aldrete-Davila was arrested for the "second load" on Nov. 15, 2007, and subsequently pleaded guilty to federal drug smuggling charges and was convicted to federal prison for a 57-month sentence. "Then the government went on a nationwide Madison-avenue public relations campaign trying to justify their prosecution in this case," Poe said. "The government has never done this in any other case that I can recall." WND published word-for-word Jan. 20, 2007, an exclusive interview with Sutton, in which he attempted to justify his office's decision to prosecute Ramos and Compean. Subsequently, Sutton appeared on many national radio and television shows, attempting to convince the American public to accept the Bush administration's version of the case. Sutton contended Ramos and Compean were "rogue cops" who shot after an unarmed fleeing Mexican who was only trying to surrender and that the agents subsequently tried to hide evidence of the shooting at the scene and failed to report the incident to their superiors. "Most of the American public and most members of Congress think the sentences Ramos and Compean received were way over the top," Poe said. WND was also among the first to report Ramos and Compean were charged under the "wrong law," U.S.C. Section 924(c) that imposes a mandatory minimum 10-year sentence on a person using a weapon in the commission of a federal crime. "That gun law as never designed by Congress to apply to police officers," Poe said. "This is the only case since that law was passed that applied the law to law enforcement agents." Poe said he and several members of the House plan to introduce new legislation designed to specify U.S.C. Section 924(c) does not apply to law enforcement officers. A statement released by David Botsford, legal counsel for Ramos, strongly criticized the government's decision to prosecute his client under U.S.C. Section 924(c). "Mr. Ramos, who has been in custody since January 17, 2007, was subjected to conditions more onerous than those imposed upon the foreign detainees in Guantanamo Bay," Botsford said in a statement released from his office in Austin, Texas.
02.04.2009	The Ramos and Compean Justice Act of 2009 will amend chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to exempt certain peace officers from certain minimum sentencing requirements for using a firearm to commit a crime of violence during or in relation to their employment. The bill text is below:IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. POE of Texas introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on __________ A BILL To amend chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, toexempt certain peace officers from certain minimum sentencingrequirements for using a firearm to commit acrime of violence during or in relation to their employment. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.This Act may be cited as the Ramos and Compean Justice Act of 2009. SEC. 2. EXEMPTION FROM CERTAIN MINIMUM SENTENCING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN PEACE OFFICERS WHO USE A FIREARM TO COMMIT A CRIME OF VIOLENCE DURING OR IN RELATION TO THEIR EMPLOYMENT. Section 924(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: (6)(A) The minimum sentencing requirements in this subsection shall not apply to a person who used, carried, or possessed a firearm if(i) the offense under this subsection occurred during or in relation to the performance of the duties of the person as a peace officer; and (ii) the firearm is of the same type as the firearm authorized to be carried by the person in the performance of those duties; and (iii) the crime during and in relation to which the offense under this subsection occurred is a crime of violence.(B) In subparagraph (A), the term peace officer means an officer or employee of the Federal Government, or of a State or local government, who is authorized by law to carry a firearm in the lawful performance of his or her duties as such an officer or employee..
01.30.2009	Poe, Kucinich Say Citigroup $400 Million Naming Rights Deal has to GoDemand Treasury Force Bailout Recipient to Cancel Deal with NY MetsWashington D.C. (January 29, 2009) One of Congress' most liberal members and one of its most conservative members have teamed up in a letter demanding Treasury officials take steps to force Citigroup to give up its $400 million naming rights deal with the New York Mets.Representatives Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) and Ted Poe (R-TX) today sent a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury Department, Mr. Timothy Geithner, requesting that Treasury demand that Citigroup dissolve their $400 million contract with the New York Mets to name the new Mets stadium Citi Field.In the letter, Poe and Kucinich point out that Citigroup's financial situation has changed drastically since the deal with the Mets was signed in 2006. In the past several months, Citigroup has received more than $350 billion in taxpayer money from economic stabilization efforts and loans. Additionally, in November of 2008, Citigroup announced that their intent to cut more than 50,000 jobs from their workforce.Citigroup claimed it was on the brink of financial disaster, then demanded and took $45 billion from the taxpayers through government giveaways, said Poe. But now it seems they have an extra $400 million lying around to plaster their name all over the brand new New York Mets ballpark, Citi Field. While average Americans are hunkering down worried about their jobs, food, clothes, and mortgage payments, these irresponsible executives are blowing hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars. Citigroup should be held to the same standards they hold their customers to and be forced to repay the American taxpayer first."Out of work Americans are literally being killed by this economy. In Michigan, a 93-year-old man freezes to death after the electric company limits his heat. In California, a family is lost in a murder-suicide because of work issues. In every state, American homes are foreclosed and people put on the street. At Citigroup, 50,000 people will lose their jobs. Yet in the boardroom of Citigroup, spending $400 million to put a name on stadium seems like a good idea. The Treasury Department, which forced Citigroup corporate executives to give up their private jet, should also demand that Citigroup cancel its $400 million advertisement at the Mets field and instead begin to repay their debt to the taxpayers," stated Kucinich. The full text of the letter follows:The Honorable Timothy GeithnerSecretaryUnited States Department of the Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20220Dear Secretary Geithner:Congratulations on your appointment as Secretary of the United States Treasury. We wish you the best of luck as you undertake the challenging task of addressing our nations continuing financial crisis.We write to you with deep concern regarding the questionable business decisions of Citigroup in light of their continued federal assistance. We were pleased to hear Citigroup announce earlier in the week that they intend to refuse delivery of a luxury corporate jet reportedly at the behest of President Obama; however their decision to move forward with a stadium naming rights deal with the New York Mets is extremely troubling.In November 2006, Citigroup announced they had reached an agreement with the New York Mets to name their new stadium Citi Field. According to the terms of the agreement, Citigroup will pay the New York Mets a total of $400 million over 20 years. Citi Field opens for competition at the commencement of the 2009 baseball season.Since this time, Citigroups financial position has changed drastically. As you well know, Citigroup received $25 billion from the first installment of the Capital Purchase Program, authorized by Emergency Economic Stabilization Act. Since then Citigroup has received an additional $20 billion from the Targeted Investment Program as well as a federal guarantee on approximately $306 billion of loans and securities. Additionally, in November 2008 Citigroup announced their intention to cut more than 50,000 jobs from their workforce.Citigroup is now dependent on the support of the federal government for its survival as an institution. As such, we do not believe Citigroup ought to spend $400 million to name a stadium at the same time that they accept over $350 billion in taxpayer support and guarantees.We request that you intervene and demand that Citigroup dissolve the agreement they have with the New York Mets. Absent this outcome, we feel strongly that you should compel Citigroup to return immediately all federal monies received to date, as well as cancel all loan guarantees.Thank you for your care and attention to this matter. We look forward to your response.Sincerely,Dennis J. Kucinich Ted PoeMember of Congress Member of Congress###
01.29.2009	Bush commutes sentences of former US border agentsBy DEB RIECHMANN Associated Press WriterWASHINGTON In his final acts of clemency, President George W. Bush on Monday commuted the prison sentences of two former U.S. Border Patrol agents whose convictions for shooting a Mexican drug dealer ignited fierce debate about illegal immigration.Bush's decision to commute the sentences of Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, who tried to cover up the shooting, was welcomed by both Republican and Democratic members of Congress. They had long argued that the agents were merely doing their jobs, defending the American border against criminals. They also maintained that the more than 10-year prison sentences the pair was given were too harsh.Rancor over their convictions, sentencing and firings has simmered ever since the shooting occurred in 2005.Ramos and Compean became a rallying point among conservatives and on talk shows where their supporters called them heroes. Nearly the entire bipartisan congressional delegation from Texas and other lawmakers from both sides of the political aisle pleaded with Bush to grant them clemency.Bush didn't pardon the men for their crimes, but decided instead to commute their prison sentences because he believed they were excessive and that they had already suffered the loss of their jobs, freedom and reputations, a senior administration official said.The action by the president, who believes the border agents received fair trials and that the verdicts were just, does not diminish the seriousness of their crimes, the official said.Compean and Ramos, who have served about two years of their sentences, are expected to be released from prison within the next two months.They were convicted of shooting admitted drug smuggler Osvaldo Aldrete Davila in the buttocks as he fled across the Rio Grande, away from an abandoned van load of marijuana. The border agents argued during their trials that they believed the smuggler was armed and that they shot him in self defense. The prosecutor in the case said there was no evidence linking the smuggler to the van of marijuana. The prosecutor also said the border agents didn't report the shooting and tampered with evidence by picking up several spent shell casings.The agents were fired after their convictions on several charges, including assault with a dangerous weapon and with serious bodily injury, violation of civil rights and obstruction of justice. All their convictions, except obstruction of justice, were upheld on appeal.With the new acts of clemency, Bush has granted a total of 189 pardons and 11 commutations.That's fewer than half as many as Presidents Bill Clinton or Ronald Reagan issued during their two-term tenures. Bush technically has until noon on Tuesday when President-elect Barack Obama is sworn into office to exercise his executive pardon authority, but presidential advisers said no more were forthcoming.The president had made most of his pardon decisions on low-profile cases, but his batch in December created controversy.Isaac Robert Toussie of Brooklyn, N.Y, convicted of making false statements to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and of mail fraud, was among 19 people Bush pardoned just before Christmas. But after learning in news reports that Toussie's father had donated tens of thousands of dollars to the Republican Party a few months ago, as well as other information, the president reversed his decision on Toussie's case.The White House said the decision to revoke the pardon a step unheard of in recent memory was based on information about the extent and nature of Toussie's prior criminal offenses, and that neither the White House counsel's office nor the president had been aware of a political contribution by Toussie's father and wanted to avoid creating an appearance of impropriety.In an earlier high-profile official act of forgiveness, Bush saved Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff, I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, from serving prison time in the case of the 2003 leak of CIA operative Valerie Plame's identity. Libby was convicted of perjury and obstructing justice. Bush could still grant him a full pardon, although Libby has not applied for one.Bush's batches of pardons, however, have never included any well-known convicts like junk bond dealer Michael Milken, who sought a pardon on securities fraud charges, or two politicians convicted of public corruption former Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-Calif., and four-term Democratic Louisiana Gov. Edwin W. Edwards who wanted Bush to shorten their prison terms.Clinton issued a total of 457 in eight years in office. Bush's father, George H. W. Bush, issued 77 in four years. Reagan issued 406 in eight years, and President Carter issued 563 in four years. Since World War II, the largest number of pardons and commutations 2,031 came from President Truman, who served 82 days short of eight years.
01.26.2009	European planemaker Airbus pulls out of Air Force One biddingBy Peter Pae | Tribune Newspapers February 2, 2009 The parent of European aircraftmaker Airbus SAS said it would not enter the competition to build a replacement for Air Force One, a move that all but leaves Chicago-based Boeing Co. as the sole potential bidder for the contract. The decision, announced Wednesday, figures to quell criticisms that began to mount in recent days, particularly from "buy American" proponents in Congress who have derided the possibility that a U.S. president could fly in a European-designed airplane. "Outsourcing Air Force One is not an option. It's un-American," said Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas), as he proposed legislation last week prohibiting the awarding of the contract to a foreign company. This month the Pentagon took the first steps in replacing the plane by requesting information from potential providers, including Airbus. Boeing and Airbus are the only two companies capable of building an aircraft as large and sophisticated as that required for the U.S. president. The Air Force, which operates and maintains the president's aircraft fleet, is looking to buy three planes to replace two Boeing-built 747 jumbo jets that were made nearly two decades ago. The prospects of an Airbus Air Force One, however, prompted heated debates over what really is made in America, given that Boeing planes have a large number of parts made overseas. A spokesman for the U.S. unit of Airbus parent European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co. said the decision was based on a business case that didn't make sense. Los Angeles TimesPoe Legislation keeps Air Force One Made in AmericaRep. Poe files bill prohibiting foreign manufacturing of Presidents planeWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed legislation to require that the aircraft used as Air Force One by the President of the United States be an aircraft that is made in America by Americans. Of all the things that should be made-in-America, Air Force One is the number one priority, said Poe. Since the 1960s, Air Force One has stood as a symbol of national pride and a testament to the manufacturing ingenuity of Americas aerospace technologies. As the nations most important military command and control aircraft, outsourcing the production to a foreign company constitutes a national security risk. Congressman Poe filed the Air Force One Built in America Act in response to the recent announcement by the Pentagon that the replacement of the current jet used by the President could come from a foreign company. The current jet is not scheduled to be replaced until 2016, however this legislation would ensure that any and all future jets manufactured for use as Air Force One be built in the United States. Currently, there are only two companies capable of making an aircraft with these capabilities Chicagos Boeing and Airbus of Europe. Airbus has a demonstrably poor track record against US security interests, including efforts to sell military helicopters to Iran in 2005 and American-made military aircraft and technology to Venezuela, continued Poe. A company with this kind of history should not be building our most important aircraft. Boeing is the leader in the aerospace industry and with nearly 100 years experience designing aircraft, I know that they can exceed any expectations of a foreign company.The Air Force One Built in America Act: Requires that the aircraft be built by an American-owned company in the United States Requirements of an American owned company include: the chief executive officer of which is a citizen of the United States at least two-thirds of the board of directors and other managing officers of which are citizens of the United States; and that is under the actual control of citizens of the United States Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittees on Europe and Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. ###
01.22.2009	Congressman Poe Opposes Guantanamo Bay Decision Cosponsors the Enemy Combatant Detention Review ActWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) raised serious concerns today in response to the executive order by President Barack Obama for the closure of the terrorist detainee facility at Guantanamo Bay. Congressman Poe issued the following statement:I have toured prisons all around the world and I have personally visited the Guantanamo Bay facility. I can assure you this facility is more than acceptable to house terrorist suspects. In my opinion, it is far too nice for the worst-of-the-worst. The decision to close this facility and transfer its occupants to the United States is a dangerous one. It is in the interest of national security that I urge the President to reconsider this decision. There are numerous legal ramifications concerning this plan number one being the potential release of terrorists on US soil. It is already proven that we do not adequately deport criminal illegals after they have served their time in US prisons and this will be no different. The American people need to have faith that our government is doing everything it can to keep terrorists out of our country, not purposely bringing them here. I have already received calls from concerned citizens wanting to know if they would be transferred to federal penitentiaries in their area. A recent Pentagon report shows, that of those already released, 61 have rejoined terrorist activities. There needs to be serious consideration of the potential risks involved with this plan before any action is taken.In response, Congressman Poe cosponsored H.R. 630, the Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act. This bill establishes clear rules regarding the detention of known terrorists, specifically prohibits a federal court from ordering the government to bring enemy combatants into the U.S. and ensures that an alien captured and detained abroad during wartime cannot be admitted and released in the U.S.Congressman Poe serves on the House Judiciary Committee and as Deputy Ranking Member of the Crime Subcommittee. In addition, Poe serves on the Foreign Affairs Committee, Terrorist Subcommittee. Prior to serving in Congress, Poe was a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas, for 30 years and known for his creative punishment of criminals and advocacy on behalf of victims.
01.15.2009	REP. POE VOTES NO TO FLAWED SCHIP BILLLegislation increases spending; extends benefits to adults, illegalsWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted against the SCHIP Reauthorization Act citing unacceptable provisions that would force families off private insurance, increase spending and extend coverage to adults and to people living in our country illegally. I fully support caring for our nations children in need, said Poe. SCHIP was created by the Republican Congress in 1997 and its original purpose was to care for our countrys poorest children, but this bill takes a health care plan for poor children and turns it into a path to socialized health care for America. This so-called new and improved bill is still the same unacceptable plan to raise taxes, crowd-out private insurance, and extend benefits to adults and to illegals that is was last time. We have a responsibility to care for our greatest resources, our children, but using them as a front to increase spending and lay the ground work for a government-run health care system is a shame. H.R. 2Childrens Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act: The bill dramatically increases spending: The bill will increase spending on the SCHIP from the $40 billion spent over the previous ten years to a total of $60 billion over just the next four and a half year years; provides $73.3 billion over ten years in new mandatory spending on top of the $25 billion over five years that would result from a straight extension of the program. The bill severely weakens proof of U.S. citizenship requirements: The bill will weaken current law requiring states to document the identity and citizenship status of applicants while at the same time removing the five-year waiting period for non-citizens to enroll in SCHIP and Medicaid. The bill does nothing to protect against private insurance crowd-out: CBO estimates that 2.4 million children will shift from receiving private insurance to government run insurance. The bill increases taxes on the poorest Americans: The $71.1 billion tax increase on tobacco is the most regressive tax in American history according to the Congressional Research Service (CRS). This is a substantial tax increase on low income individuals in order to pay for an expansion of SCHIP to higher income levels. The bill includes Higher Income families: H.R. 2 increases the eligibility limit to 300% of FPL or $63,600 for a family of four but also continues the current authority for states to define and disregard income. Under current law, states can cover families earning up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Level (FPL) or $42,400 for a family of four in 2008 or those at 50% above Medicaid eligibility. However, states have been able to disregard income with regard to eligibility for the program. The bill would ban new physician-owned hospitals and expansion: H.R. 2 bans new physician-owned hospitals from participating in Medicare and places severe restrictions on the expansion of existing hospitals, ultimately resulting in growth controlled at the federal level. ###
01.12.2009	Congressman Ted Poe Sworn-in for a 3rd Term Appointed to the House Judiciary CommitteeWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was sworn in for a 3rd term as the United States Representative for the Second Congressional District of Texas earlier this week. In the 111th Congress, Congressman Poe will serve on the House Judiciary Committee. As a former judge and prosecutor in Houston, Texas, for 30 years, Congressman Poe brings his professional experience and insight to the committees membership.I am honored to serve on the Judiciary Committee, said Poe. I welcome this new responsibility and look forward to bringing my experience and knowledge of the law and the court system to the committee. My advocacy efforts on behalf of victims and children will also be strengthened by this appointment and I am encouraged by the bipartisan support of these issues.The Judiciary has oversight responsibility for the Department of Justice and Homeland Security and I am especially excited to have the opportunity to work directly on much of the border security legislation that comes before Congress, added Poe. This remains one of my top priorities. The Committee on the Judiciary has been called the lawyer for the House of Representatives because of its jurisdiction over matters relating to the administration of justice in Federal courts, administrative bodies, and law enforcement agencies. In addition to oversight for the Department of Justice and Homeland Security, the scope of the Committees concern includes issues relating to bankruptcy, espionage, terrorism, the protection of civil liberties, and constitutional amendments. The committee also covers issues concerning claims against the United States, national penitentiaries, Presidential succession, antitrust law, revision and codification of the statutes of the United States. In addition to serving on the Judiciary committee, Congressman Poe continues to serve on the Committee on Foreign Affairs Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade and International Organizations, Human Rights, and Oversight Subcommittees; an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus; and founder and chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. ###
01.06.2009	Congressman Ted Poe Sworn-in for a 3rd Term as 1111th Congress Convenes TodayCongressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was sworn in for a 3rd term as the United States Representative for the Second Congressional District of Texas as the 111th Congress convenes today. In the 111th Congress, Congressman Poe will remain committed to his pledge not to support any bill that raises taxes on the American people and continue to fight for limited government spending and reduce unnecessary federal regulations and interference. In the face of financial uncertainty, Congressman Poe will also call on private industries to be held accountable for their actions and take a critical approach to any further federal bail-outs they require the use of taxpayer monies. Congressman Poe voted against the financial and auto industries bail-outs in the 110th Congress.Congressman Poe continues to be a leading advocate for increased border security and serves as an Executive Member of the Immigration Reform Caucus. As a strong proponent of energy independence, Congressman Poe is an ardent supporter of increased domestic drilling, alternative energy and supports an all of the above approach to lessening our dependence on foreign crude oil and natural gas. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade Subcommittee; the Committee on the Judiciary; as well as founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims in our nations capitol.
12.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) expressed support for Israels response to attacks by Hamas terrorists in the Gaza Strip in a statement released today:Every country has the right of self defense and Israel is exercising its duty to protect its people. Our democratic allies were left with no choice but to defend their people and do what is necessary to eliminate Hamas militants waging war on their country. The US must stand with Israel and support their ongoing efforts to protect themselves from Islamist terrorist attacks. Their continued attacks cannot go unanswered and I urge other world powers to stand with Israel in its fight against terrorism. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foriegn Affairs and Terrorism Subcommittee.
12.19.2008	This week, I am in Kosovo at Camp Bondsteel visiting with our troops. This base is made up of member units of the US National Guard, including 60 soldiers from Texas. I met with Base Commander General Kay and other key military persons regarding the peace keeping Forces in Kosovo and the role of our US Military here. Thanks to Texas school children, I was able to deliver several thousand Christmas and holiday cards to troops stationed here in Kosovo who will not be home during the holidays. The cards were not only given to Texas troops, but to the other 1100 American Guardsmen on the base. Over 18,000 handmade cards were made by Texas school children, scout troops, senior citizen groups and other patriots for our military. The remainder of the cards we received have been sent to Afghanistan and Iraq to be delivered to our troops serving there. The soldiers in Kosovo are very grateful for the cards and thankful for those who thought of them during this special season. Amazing people these Americans overseas and those at home who remembered them. Thanks again to all those that participated in our card drive, you truly made a difference in the lives of our American heroes. That's just the way it is.
12.09.2008	Congressman Ted Poe Collects 18,000 Cards for US TroopsWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently held an area-wide Christmas and holiday card drive for our troops serving overseas. As of today, Congressman Poes district office has collected nearly 18,000 cards from individuals, school children, scout troops, local churches and organizations. The response to this project has been overwhelming, said Poe. I would like to give a special thanks to all those that took time to remember our troops and recognize their sacrifices this Christmas.As the holidays rush upon us we often forget that many members of our armed forces will be oceans away from their families again this year representing us and the interests of our great nation, continued Poe. The holidays are hard for the families that are left behind, but it is because of the sacrifices made by the brave men and women wearing the United States uniform that we get to celebrate with our families. Thanks again to all those that made this year special for our troops it means the world to them.This project is in conjunction with the American Red Cross and PitneyBowes national holiday card drive. The local cards collected by Congressman Poe will be delivered to the Red Cross for distribution to the military serving throughout the world this holiday season.###
12.04.2008	For the second straight year, Congressman Ted Poe has the most appearances on the floor of the House of Representatives speaking 215 days.
11.21.2008	Christmas Cards for our TroopsWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe will be collecting Christmas cards to distribute to our American service men and women who are bravely serving our country. Congressman Poe strongly encourages individuals and community groups to participate and show their support. Constituents are encouraged to drop off cards addressed to Dear Service Member to one of Congressman Poes District Office located in Humble or Beaumont. All cards must be received by December 8, 2008 Humble District Office20202 US Highway 59 North, Suite 105Humble, TX 77338281-446-0242Beaumont District Office 505 Orleans Street, Suite 100 Beaumont, TX 77701 409-212-1997
11.18.2008	By Colum KennySunday October 05 2008If Ted Poe of Texas were Ireland's Minister for Finance, then Irish people might have more confidence in the Government's massive guarantee for Irish bankers. As Brian Cowen and Brian Lenihan last week bet the family silver -- and much more besides -- on a shaky financial future, Congressman Ted Poe caught the public mood on both sides of the Atlantic.Poe told the US House of Representatives on Monday, "Small businesses, mom and pop grocery stores, don't get this break. When they make bad financial decisions, they go out of business. But the rich and famous Wall Street New York City fat cats expect Joe Six-Pack to buck it up and pay for all this nonsense." And Sean or Brigid Six-Pack could be bucking it up even harder for Irish nonsense, as the deal for Irish fat cats may end up costing more than the American bail-out, relative to our economy. People are worried, and they should be. Putting the future of the State on the line was only responsible if there was no other choice. It is a high-stakes gamble, no matter how much or how often the Government tries to sell it as a "sure thing". Minister for Finance Lenihan claims that there is "a very significant buffer before there is any question of the guarantee being called upon", because the six banks involved (he claimed) have total assets worth 80bn more than the guarantee. But a bet is a bet, and who knows what those assets are now really worth, or will be worth when the chickens come home to roost? The minister ultimately relied on the banks' own valuation of their assets, which the National Treasury Management Agency told me last week comes to 438bn, just 38bn more than the figure of 400bn cited as the value of the guarantee, and not 80bn as the minister reportedly claimed. But, sure, what's a few dozen billion between bankers and their friends in Government? And can we rely on the banks' own valuation of their assets, calculated long before the current crisis?Politicians mounted their high horses to defend the guarantee last week.Brian Lenihan's aunt, Mary O'Rourke TD, condemned British critics of the deal's implications. Another senator dismissed the US Congress as a bunch of Ballymagash councillors. That'll teach those Yanks for showing disrespect to the banks. Commentators and politicians keep saying what "must" happen now in return for the deal, but the only sure thing is that the banks will get public money if they want it. Bankers panicked the Oireachtas into gambling the independence of Ireland on the throw of a dice.Ordinary citizens have a sick feeling about the deal. If the gamble works, ministers will crow that they always knew how sure a thing it was. If it fails, then the guarantee may ruin Ireland for at least a generation. Is that risk worth the odds? There were more careful alternatives.For years, banks cut services to customers and put their frontline staff under pressure so that shares would balloon. Irish regulation was weak. Financial executives appeared in handcuffs on American TV, but never here. The Irish banking and stock-exchange worlds could do no wrong. And now nobody says sorry. And nobody's head rolls. And nobody pays back.But the taxpayer foots the bill. Big bankers will still have the same big cars and the same big attitudes. Talk of them paying a price will, in traditional Irish fashion, mean little in practice. Voters are dizzy at the scale of the Government's gamble with their money.A new Minister for Finance, with no background in business or even accountancy, is supporting a plan that could cost 10 times the national debt.The Oireachtas rushed through legislation. It was so urgent that they could not debate it in detail, yet some members did not even turn up to vote. Just 44 out of 60 senators voted. Given the perks and benefits of being an elected representative, those who failed to turn up in a national emergency should resign their seats (unless they were seriously ill).Irish people are now being forced to clean up a mess that leaves many ordinary citizens frightened. They include those stuck in houses for which they paid too much, or those laden with debts that bankers and others suckered them into. The economists and politicians who spoke of a "soft-landing" and condemned those who warned otherwise are still out there, shamelessly telling us what is what. Brazen and brash, they told people not to "talk down" the economy while those whose interests they served ran it down.Voters are sceptical of politicians who emulated the smash-and-grab bonus ethos of banking to give themselves a whole range of perks that greatly inflated their already generous salaries and remarkable pensions.Ministers are now telling Irish people that we must cushion reckless banks -- or else. These banks lent money in ways that inflated house prices, some of which money no doubt ended up as political contributions from builders to Fianna Fail.There are also extra hidden costs of this blank cheque for banking. When it comes to Ireland's international credit rating, the deal will make it harder or more expensive for the Irish Government to raise money abroad for public purposes such as health, education and transport.And the prospect of money leaving foreign banks to come to Ireland to benefit from this unique guarantee has angered stronger banks abroad. EU states are already exercised by our special tax breaks for multinationals. The deal gives rise to a fascinating prospect: Irish taxpayers one day paying back large amounts of foreign savings if an Irish bank fails. The deal will have further negative consequences for us internationally, on top of the Lisbon referendum vote that lost us friends in Europe.We are no longer "good Europeans" but spoilers, and those who do deals on our behalf will in due course learn all about what others now think of us.In the worst-case scenario the Irish Government may be liable to pay a fortune to banks, but even then may not have enough taxpayer cash to cover all deposits fully.The United States now faces some tough decisions in order to maintain its economic place in the world.A decade that started with a symbolic attack by al-Qaeda on one of the world's greatest financial and trading centres (made possible partly because deregulation had weakened airport security) is ending with an almighty implosion on Wall Street (caused partly because deregulation allowed reckless financial practices). But the USA is rich enough to repair its economy and weather the storm.Ireland, on the other hand, is a small country with a track record of government deals that failed to protect the public interest as well as they might have. Think AIB bailout, tax evasion amnesties, or the Catholic Church and its sex abuse liabilities. Many citizens would not like to bet their house on Brian Cowen and Brian Lenihan putting together a package for banks that will also safeguard Sean Six-Pack. But Sean and Brigid Six-Pack have just had their houses bet for them, and they are worried. Personally, I think that it is all the media's fault. Those bloody journalists do not have enough respect for their betters, or trust in their politicians. Yeh, that's it. It's the media that has brought down the Dow Jones and punctured the Irish stock exchange. Sean Six-Pack would be a lot happier if he just stopped reading newspapers and got on with paying his taxes to the bank.
11.14.2008	Over the course of the last several weeks, my office has received over 7,000 requests for tickets to the Presidential Inauguration. Unfortunately, my office only receives a few hundred tickets to distribute, and therefore can not accept any more requests. However, if you are still planning to come to Washington, D.C., my office will be happy to assist you with any tour information and questions you may have.
11.12.2008	PARIS: From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity.But reminders of violence were apparent as security was tightened in many nations.Fireworks were canceled in downtown Brussels, Belgium, where police detained 14 people Dec. 21 suspected of plotting to help an accused al-Qaida militant break out of jail.Festivities in Paris centered on the famous Champs-Elysees avenue and the Eiffel Tower, where about 4,500 police and 140 rescue officials patrolled the streets.In Thailand, an army spokesman said he believed that five bombs set off by suspected Muslim insurgents in a Thai-Malaysian border tourist town likely targeted New Year's revelers. The bombs, which wounded 27 people, exploded in the hotel and nightlife quarter of Sungai Kolok, spokesman Col. Akara Thiprote said.Baghdad witnessed something Iraq had not seen since before the invasion of 2003 — people publicly partying to welcome in a new year.The ballrooms of two landmark hotels — the Palestine and the Sheraton — were full of people for New Year's Eve celebrations. After years of car bombings, mortar fire and suicide attacks, Iraq's capital was sufficiently calm to warrant the two high-end parties in the once-posh hotels.Several European countries rang in the new year with new habits.The smoke-filled cafe became a thing of memory in France. Following up on a ban last year on smoking in many indoor locations, cigarettes were prohibited in dance clubs, restaurants, hotels, casinos and cafes.Fabienne Simon, a 27-year-old smoker, said the ban was "not that bad.""There is nothing better than to go to a nightclub, a coffee place where there are no cigarettes," she said. "You come out, it's great, you aren't smelling of cigarettes."Two European Union newcomers, Cyprus and Malta, started using the euro at the stroke of midnight. The Mediterranean islands, both former British colonies, were scrapping the Cyprus pound and Maltese lira to bring the number of countries using the shared currency to 15.In France, President Nicolas Sarkozy gave the first traditional New Year's greeting of his presidency, with a "message of hope, faith in life and in the future." In Russia, Vladimir Putin delivered the last New Year's Eve address of his eight-year presidency, boasting of economic improvements and claiming to have restored a sense of unity among Russians, who are likely to see him stay in power as prime minister after he steps down in a few months.In Moscow, thousands gathered in Red Square, watching a concert beneath the colorful onion domes of St. Basil's Cathedral, and fireworks above.An ailing Fidel Castro saluted the Cuban people for their "50 years of resistance" against the United States in a message that was read on state television. Though Cuba will mark the 50th anniversary of the Jan. 1, 1959, revolution that brought Castro to power a year from now, it is characterizing all of 2008 leading up to that date as the "50th year of the revolution."Along with the innovations, old traditions were maintained.More than a million revelers in New York's Times Square cheered at the 100th drop of a giant ball. A century ago the tradition began with a 700-pound ball of wood and iron, lit with 100 25-watt incandescent bulbs. This year's event featured an energy-efficient sphere clad in Waterford crystals, with 9,576 light-emitting diodes that generated a kaleidoscope of colors.In London, people gathered in Trafalgar Square and along the banks of the River Thames to watch a fireworks display and hear Big Ben — Parliament's iconic bell — welcome the New Year with 12 resounding bongs.Berlin held a massive fete: In a stretch leading from the city's famous Brandenburg Gate along Tiergarten park to the western part of town, officials set up three stages, 13 bands, a 40-yard tall Ferris wheel and over 100 beer stands and snack joints.In Vatican City, Pope Benedict XVI took a somber note, lamenting what he called the "trivialization" of sexuality and lack of faith among young people during a vespers' service in St. Peter's Basilica.China started its Olympic year with a New Year party including fireworks, singing and dancing put on by the organizers of the Summer Olympics.In Brazil, about 2 million people gathered at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, witnessing a fireworks display that lasted nearly 20 minutes. In Sao Paulo, South America's biggest city, local media said 2.3 million people celebrated at the Avenida Paulista, Brazil's financial center.
11.12.2008	(IDG) -- A sword embedded in a smoldering metal sphere rises from primordial mist. The comic-book-style illustration appears at the center of a stark black Web page as hand-lettered words fade in: "They are born in an inferno that tests both mind and body. Those who complete the challenge become beacons of honor, courage and commitment. What does it take to be one of the few? The answer lies within."If you enter, you reach the "processing" page: "Tell us a little about yourself and we'll tell you what it takes to become one of us." This is no superhero adventure. It's a recruiting site for the U.S. Marine Corps.The armed forces are in a recruiting crisis; even the popular Air Force may miss its enlistment goals for the first time in 20 years. And the Defense Department says the conflict in Kosovo has done nothing to inspire – or discourage – enlistment at the national level.All four branches of the U.S. military are turning to the Web for help. "We know our site is working because we had 2,000 visitors per day a year and a half ago and we're up to 5,000 visitors per day now," says Maj. Mike Shepherd, U.S. Army Recruiting Command chief of marketing communications. Growth in Web-generated leads has increased over the past 18 months "to the tune of about 200 percent," Shepherd says. URLs are now incorporated into broadcast ads, posters, CD-ROMs and printed brochures for the four branches of service.Launched in August 1998, www.navy.com has a patriotic feel. The homepage features a sailor saluting, the Blue Angels flying in formation and the waving Stars and Stripes. "It says honor, courage and commitment," says Paul Krygowski, creative director at Organic Online, the company that built the site with the Navy's ad agency, BBDO.The site aims to increase awareness of the Navy's extensive technical training and career opportunities, something that usually makes kids think "Air Force." One section features an interactive game, in which the player helps a Navy pilot complete his mission while learning about a variety of Naval careers. A redesign will place even heavier emphasis on education, training and travel opportunities, which are what interest potential recruits the most, focus groups show.In May, the Army will debut a redesign of its own. Originally launched in 1995 with the help of ad agency Young & Rubicam, the current site suffers from its own success. Each group within the Army wanted a piece of the homepage, and as a result, www.goarmy.com is an unfocused portal that channels visitors into separate sites for openings as diverse as the Army Chaplains and the Special Forces. The new site will maintain the breadth of job offerings but will have a more consistent look and more interactivity. "We want to show everyone pictures of people in action so that they can look at it and say, 'Hey, that could be me,'" says Shepherd.
11.12.2008	By Patrick Peterson, Florida TodayCAPE CANAVERAL — NASA is targeting Feb. 7 for shuttle Atlantis' launch to the International Space Station to deliver the European Columbus module. About two months after the original launch attempt, the extra time is needed to correct faulty fuel-level readings likely caused by an electrical connector that passes through the wall of the external tank.Waiting until at least Feb. 7 also would put the shuttle's arrival at the space station behind the docking of a Russian Progress cargo vehicle scheduled to launch the same day from Kazakhstan.NASA officials stressed Thursday that the date is tentative."That date is now under evaluation," NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said. "There's not an official launch date yet."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Columbus | Kazakhstan | International Space Station | Atlantis | James Hartsfield | Russian ProgressToday, technicians will install a new connector to replace the one thought to have caused intermittent readings from a low-fuel sensor.NASA plans to proceed to launch without fueling the shuttle to test the performance of the replacement part."We're not scheduled to do a tanking test," NASA spokeswoman Candrea Thomas said. "That doesn't mean we can't do one later on."Copyright 2007, SPACE.com Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
11.12.2008	ST. LOUIS -- Tommie Liddell and Kevin Lisch scored 16 points each and Saint Louis held high-scoring Massachusetts to its lowest point total of the season in a 71-59 victory Saturday.Massachusetts (14-7, 3-4 Atlantic 10) came into the game averaging 84.4 points, sixth-highest in the nation, and had scored at least 80 points 13 times this season.Saint Louis (12-9, 3-4) shut the Minutemen down from the start, holding them to 30 percent shooting, including 2-of-21 from 3-point range. Massachusetts was 9-for-36 in the second half, missing its final 10 shots.Gary Forbes had 20 points for Massachusetts, which had a previous low of 65 points in a 12-point loss to Xavier last Sunday.Saint Louis never trailed, leading by six at halftime then opening with a 10-4 run over the first 4:24 of the second half to take control at 44-32.Liddell was 6-of-11 from the field and grabbed nine rebounds. Lisch was 6-of-13 with four assists. Danny Brown added 14 points and seven rebounds off the bench for Saint Louis.Chris Lowe scored 14 points, Etienne Brower added 12 and Tony Gaffney had 10 rebounds for the Minutemen.Copyright 2008 by The Associated Press
11.12.2008	ScienceDaily (Feb. 13, 2008) — A new report refutes claims that portable music players, such as Apple's iPod, interfere with cardiac pacemakers.Howard Bassen, a researcher with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in Rockville, Md., led a research team that measured the magnetic fields produced by four different iPod models: a fourth-generation iPod and an iPod with video, and an iPod nano and iPod shuffle. They also measured the voltages delivered inside the pacemaker by the magnetic fields from the iPods. All measurements indicated there would be no effects on users with cardiac pacemakers.Over the past year, a spate of media reports speculated on iPod interference with cardiac pacemakers. These reports, however, were based on a single incident where a patient with a cardiac pacemaker suffered dizziness while using an iPod. Cardiologists operated an iPod during the patient's examination, and noted interference with the pacemaker.The cardiologists published their results in the medical journal, Heart Rhythm. After publication, there was talk of warning labels for portable music and video players, although a subsequent clinical study failed to show any dangerous connection between the music devices and patients with pacemakers.Now, Bassen's more detailed study demonstrates that iPods are not capable of producing electromagnetic interference in implanted pacemakers.Using a 3-coil sensor, the team measured the magnetic field produced by the iPod at a distance of around 5 to 10 millimeters. They obtained readings for the magnetic field at various specific and small regions 10 mm from an iPod. The peak magnetic field strength was 0.2 millionths of a Tesla, a value hundreds of times lower than the levels capable of interfering with a pacemaker.In addition, Bassen's team attempted to detect any voltages these fields might produce within the protective "can" of a pacemaker. The can was placed inside a simulated human torso used by pacemaker manufacturers for interference testing. Bassen and his team found that the voltage levels within the pacemaker can were well below the detection limits of their highly sensitive equipment."Based on the observations of our in-vitro study we conclude that no interference effects can occur in pacemakers exposed to the iPods we tested," Bassen concluded.Journal reference: Low frequency magnetic emissions and resulting induced voltages in a pacemaker by iPod portable music players. Howard Bassen. BioMedical Engineering OnLine (in press)
11.12.2008	ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- For Olympic swimmer Eric Shanteau, the last two months have been a whirlwind. "Full of the best moments and the scariest moments of my life," says the 24-year-old Olympic swimmer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. "Getting to the Olympics was, has always been, my swimming dream since I was 8 or 9 years old. You know, right after I started swimming it was, 'I want to make an Olympic team. That's where I want to be'."In June, a week before the qualifying round of the Olympics he was told he had testicular cancer. "My initial reaction was probably anger more than anything else," he says. "I'm used to being in control of everything. I'm in control of how I train, how I race and then to all of a sudden have that control ripped away from me was tough."After weeks of tests to determine the "stage" or spread of the cancer, Shanteau's team of doctors cleared him to compete in the Beijing Olympics, which meant carefully monitoring his tumor but delaying treatment. Though putting off the surgery was controversial to some, Eric says it was an educated choice based on numerous doctor evaluations. "I hope people understand that if I was in a different position with my test results, then I wouldn't have put off having surgery." Video Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports from Eric Shanteau's surgery »He swam a personal best in the 200 meter breaststroke. He did not qualify for the finals.Cancer was a motivator, he says, because he knew it meant he could be facing his last competition. He put everything he had into that heat. "Leave it all in the pool, and I don't look back and regret anything as far as how I raced."Once back from Beijing, Shanteau invited CNN to spend time with him the night before his surgery in Atlanta, Georgia. Though admittedly a little scared, he spent the evening relaxing with his family, cooking dinner, walking the dog.Don't Miss * Olympic swimmer battles testicular cancerA source of inspiration, he says, were fans who shared their stories of beating cancer."They send me their story and it helps me to learn that people are going through the same thing I am all over the world," says Shanteau. "They all affect me in a different way and it's been really encouraging to share in this experience with other people."Testicular cancer is diagnosed in about 1 in 300 men in their lifetime. It is the most common form of cancer for 15- to 34-year-olds. It is also one of the most curable if discovered early. Nearly 140,000 men in the United States are testicular cancer survivors.Shanteau says he experienced no symptoms of cancer and came across the tumor by chance. "I've been in a Speedo half my life," he says. "So I am really comfortable with my body. One day I just felt something that wasn't suppose to be there. I decided to go and get it checked out."He adds that although he had the "greatest excuse in the world" -- an Olympic dream -- to ignore the lump, he understood the importance of early detection. Shanteau's father Rick, is battling lung cancer and responding well to treatment."A lot of guys, if they hear a rattle in their car, they're at the mechanic the next day," he says. "But if they feel something [physically] that they don't think should be there, it takes them a year to get to their doctor and that just is not smart. There's really no excuse, because it can save your life."Fast forward to Shanteau's recent operation at Emory University Hospital. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta was with Shanteau during the surgery and spoke with the lead surgeon, Dr. Jeff Carney, moments afterward."I think the operation went very well," Carney said. "Eric's a very healthy young man, very thin, in excellent shape. That makes my job easy."
11.12.2008	NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) -- Stocks tumbled Wednesday afternoon as weak corporate results and forecasts - and slumping commodity prices - amplified fears of a broad recession.Global markets slid, with Asian and European stocks ending lower. Treasury prices rose, lowering the corresponding yields. The dollar was mixed versus other major currencies. Oil, gas and gold prices fell.With roughly an hour left in the session, the Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) had lost 373 points, or 4.1%, after having lost as much as 430 points earlier.The Standard & Poor's 500 (SPX) index lost 4.9% and the Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 3.7%.Lending rates improved, helping to reassure investors that the efforts of world governments to stabilize financial markets are starting to work. But any relief about the improvement in the credit market was overshadowed by recession fears.In economic news, the number of layoffs impacting 50 workers or more rose to the highest level in September since the month of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.Stocks fell Tuesday as weak quarterly results and forecasts underscored the depth of what many think is a recession. Wednesday's reports, including a big, surprise quarterly loss from bank Wachovia, added to those worries.There is an increased focus on results this week because 140 of the S&P 500 companies are reporting, giving investors the best sense yet of the health of corporate America.With 21% of S&P 500 companies already having reported results, third-quarter profits are currently on track to have fallen almost 10% from a year ago, according to the latest estimates from Thomson Reuters.
11.12.2008	Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked?Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology think it can do that and more--separate the rich from the poor, the sick from the healthy, even the outgoing from the introverted. Sandy Pentland, director of MIT's Human Dynamics Research program, has focused his work on that unlikely task: using gadgets as simple as a cell phone to better understand the quirks and patterns of human behavior. Sandy Pentland Pentland's experiments began with what he calls a "sociometer," a simple badge-like device that hangs from a subject's neck and records his or her movements, tone of voice, and location. With just those signals collected from large groups of subjects, Pentland says he was able to perform a kind of data analysis he calls "reality mining," finding patterns that reveal a surprising range of information--from how a population breaks down into groups, to which groups are most social and productive, to the personality traits of single individuals, all based on measuring tone of voice and body language.In his most recent experiments, however, the sociometer hasn't been necessary. Instead, Pentland has tracked his subjects through their cell phones, which are carried by around four out of five Americans. Pentland spoke with Forbes.com about the benefits his tracking experiments could offer to society, the privacy problems they pose and how he hopes to strike a balance between the two.Forbes.com: What is "reality mining?"Sandy Pentland: Reality mining is about using sensors to understand human beings. The sensors could be security cameras, they could be devices that you wear on yourself, they could be cell phones. The point is it's about people. Data mining is about finding patterns in digital stuff. I'm more interested specifically in finding patterns in humans. I'm taking data mining out into the real world.What kind of reality-mining experiments have you actually performed?We developed this thing called a sociometer, a little badge that you wear around your neck that records your body language, your motion and your tone of voice--the tone, not the words. It gives us a nice little package for reality mining.We've done all sorts of interesting things with this. Just listening to peoples' tones of voice and how they move, we can measure interest level and attention, factors that account for 40% of the variation in the outcomes of things like salary negotiation, dating scenarios, closing a sale, pitching a business plan.
11.12.2008	View Larger Map CINCINNATI — Tim Harrington sits aboard the express bus from Mason, Ohio, to Cincinnati, his computer propped in his lap. He logs on, picks through his e-mail and begins his workday during the 30-to-40-minute rush-hour trip.His commuter bus and buses in more than 20 other cities now offer wireless Internet, according to an informal survey by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA).The service surfaced about four years ago. Mountain Metropolitan Transit in Colorado Springs first offered WiFi on buses in 2004, the APTA says. It is now available across the USA in cities such as San Francisco, Reno, Austin and Seattle.Not everyone's on board. A spokesman for the Washington (D.C.) Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said there are no plans to initiate wireless service.Wireless service is also on some commuter trains. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority added it to its 45-mile rail line between Worchester and Boston in January. Deputy Chief of Staff Kris Erickson said it's "probably the most well-received enhancement that we've ever done."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Washington | Internet | Boston | San Francisco | Seattle | Austin | Salt Lake City | Dayton | Colorado Springs | Wi-Fi | Reno | Department of Transportation | Mason | King County | Public Transportation Association | WiFi | Enquirer | Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority | Utah Transit Authority | WorchesterNew York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced an agreement last September to wire the city's 277 subway stations in the next six years. The first should be wired in two years.The Utah Transit Authority began offering Internet service on 60 of its buses in January. In February, San Francisco unveiled the "Connected Bus." Cincinnati started its three-month wireless pilot program in March on a single route.APTA President William Miller predicts wireless Internet will become a service riders expect. "When I was a kid, you never thought of having an air-conditioned bus," he said.Outfitting a bus with wireless capability costs about $1,000 to $2,000, transportation officials said.In Cincinnati, Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority's Metro bus system, working with Dayton, Ohio-based HarborLink, paid $1,500 per bus for installation and nothing for the monthly service. In King County, Wash., wiring and installation on each bus cost $1,000, said Mike Berman of the county Department of Transportation's Metro Transit Division.The Utah Transit Authority reports the number of unique wireless users on its buses increased from about 500 in January's start-up to 2,500 by the end of March.David Parra, a computer engineer, uses the service on his 55-minute daily commute to and from Salt Lake City."Having the WiFi has made a huge difference for me," he said.
11.12.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. April 16, 2008 The golf industry is the sports and entertainment worlds' largest contributor to the U.S. economy, generating $76 billion in direct economic impact according to a recent study discussed today by some of the nation's leading golf association executives.In a press conference at the National Press Club to commemorate the first National Golf Day, the golf leaders also discussed the industry's environmental stewardship and its multi-billion dollar annual contributions to charitable activities."We are here as a very strong industry coalition to present data that demonstrates golf's extremely positive contributions to the economic health of our nation," said David B. Fay, Chairman, World Golf Foundation, and Executive Director of the USGA. "In addition, we want to highlight golf's environmental stewardship and the game's very positive charitable and human impact on our society. Our message is built around the fact that golf is a vital contributor to our nation's health on a number of significant levels."leadersofgolf.jpgClick Here for transcript of today's press conference at The National Press ClubJoining Mr. Fay at the press conference were Tim Finchem, Commissioner of the PGA TOUR; Joe Steranka, Chief Executive Officer of the PGA of America; Steve Mona, Chief Executive Officer of World Golf Foundation; Joe Louis Barrow, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of The First Tee; and Libba Galloway, Deputy Commissioner of the LPGA. Representatives of the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, National Golf Course Owners Association, Club Managers Association of America, Golf Course Builders Association of America and American Society of Golf Course Architects were also in Washington in recognition of National Golf Day. Each organization is a supporting member of World Golf Foundation.According to U.S. Census data, the $76 billion U.S. golf economy is larger than the motion picture and video industries and that golf facility operations generated $28 billion in revenue, exceeding revenues from all other professional and semi-professional spectator sports combined. The study, which was completed earlier this year, also found that golf generates more than $3.5 billion annually for charities across the country.A bipartisan Congressional resolution sponsored by U.S. Representatives Ron Klein (D-FL) and John Mica (R-FL) declared April 16, 2008 as National Golf Day.The golf leaders stressed that the game's impact on society could best be viewed through three perspectives: economic, environmental and human.Economic ImpactA comprehensive study, the 2005 Golf Economy Report, commissioned by World Golf Foundation's GOLF 20/20 initiative and recently completed, determined that golf in the United States generated $76 billion in direct economic impact in 2005, up significantly from $62 billion five years ago. The five-year growth of approximately $14 billion represents an average annual growth rate of 4.1 percent, well ahead of the average annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent during the years 2000-2005. The study was conducted by SRI International.
11.12.2008	Martin Luther King Jr.'s Civil Rights Dream at 40When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God's children—black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics—will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!"King, the son of an Atlanta pastor, was born in 1929. He became an ordained Baptist minister at the age of 19. In 1955, shortly after civil rights activist Rosa Parks refused to obey Montgomery, Alabama rules mandating segregation on buses, King led black residents in a bus boycott.King soon gained national fame for his extraordinary oratorical skills, and for his courage. In the spring of 1963, he led mass demonstrations in Birmingham, Alabama, where local white police officials opposed integration. Violent clashes between unarmed black demonstrators and police armed with dogs and fire hoses generated newspaper headlines throughout the world.His message, however, was not confrontational, but instead emphasized racial reconciliation through non-violent means. This theme was at the core of his "I have a dream" speech.King was speaking directly to the 250,000 people, black and white, gathered on the Washington Mall that sweltering day 40 years ago. Perhaps more importantly, however, he knew he was also addressing the millions of people, most of them white, who were watching the speech live on television."He created a reasonable argument that [white] Americans could embrace," said Haynes. "He appealed to those Americans who didn't see segregation as a major problem, but still thought it was unfair," said Haynes.Ulysses Jenkins, another UC Irvine professor, who teaches African-American studies, says King had to convince white people of the benefits of racial reconciliation."Whites feared that they had something to lose from racial equality," said Jenkins. "King had to show them they would gain something from it."The strong religious underpinning of King's message, with its references to redemption and forgiveness, resonated with white Christians. King's speech also tapped into America's political soul. He said the ideals of American democracy had not been realized until there was racial reconciliation."His message was larger than civil rights," said Clayborne Carson, director of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Papers Project at Stanford University in Palo Alto. "King was fighting for justice."But the speech also served as a warning."King wanted people to act," said Carson, who was 19 years old when he attended the march. "The underlying message was clear: As long as there was no change, the demonstrations would continue." Launch in external player
11.12.2008	Washington, DC--The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. Secretary Paulson welcomed the agreement with the Government of Peru under the U.S. Tropical Forest Conservation Act. "This agreement will build on the success of previous U.S. Government debt swaps with Peru and will further the cause of environmental conservation in a country with one of the highest levels of biodiversity on the planet. Such debt-for-nature agreements are a successful model of government and citizen cooperation to improve and expand conservation efforts," he said.Peru is one of the most biologically rich countries on earth. Funds generated by the debt-for-nature program will help Peru protect tropical rain forests of the southwestern Amazon Basin and dry forests of the Central Andes. These areas are home to dense concentrations of endemic birds such as the Andean Condor and Parakeet; primates including the Peruvian Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey and Howler Monkey; other mammals such as the Jaguar, Amazonian Manatee, Giant Otter, Spectacled Bear and Amazon River Dolphin; as well as unique plants. Rivers supplying water to downstream settlements originate in many of these forests, and people living in and around the forests depend on them for their livelihood and survival.This agreement with Peru was made possible by the innovative Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998. It will complement an existing TFCA debt-for-nature program in Peru dating from 2002, a 1997 debt swap under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, and the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which includes a number of forest protection provisions. With this agreement, Peru will be the largest beneficiary under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, with more than $35 million generated for conservation. The new Peru agreement marks the 14th Tropical Forest Conservation Act pact, following agreements with Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama (two agreements), Paraguay and the Philippines, as well as an earlier agreement with Peru. Over time, these debt-for-nature programs will together generate more than $188 million to protect tropical forests.
11.12.2008	WASHINGTON, October 15, 2008 – Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. “The grants awarded today will help farmers, cooperative members and business owners better market their products and services and that will ultimately add profit and efficiency to their operations,” Faulkner said. In Hagatna, Guam, the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam has been selected to receive $175,000 to provide training and technical assistance to its members on farming practices and facilities management. Hawaii Rural Development State Director Lorraine P. Shin said “The Farmers Cooperative Association of Farmers was also assisted in its formation through the efforts of USDA’s cooperative development technical assistance program. In September 2005. we held a week-long training session in Guam for potential cooperative projects. Several of the initial incorporators of the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam were in attendance where the idea of the cooperative was discussed with Agency staff. It is good to see the results of this planning effort pay off in helping Guam farmers with additional resources” The Winston County Self Help Cooperative in Louisville, Miss., will receive $145,000 to provide business planning services, feasibility analysis, and marketing and business formation assistance to its members. In Barry, Texas, the Navarro County Black Farmers & Ranchers League, Inc. will receive $174,600 to provide technical assistance for product improvement, marketing and customer service training. Small Minority Producer Grants are provided to cooperatives or associations of cooperatives to provide technical assistance to small, minority agriculture producers. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. Below is the complete list of recipients.Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients Recipient State Grant Amount Rio Culebra Lucero CO $174,922 Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam Territory of Guam $175,000 Mississippi Association of Cooperatives MS $175,000 Winston County Self Help Cooperative MS $145,000 Native American People Cooperative ND $175,000 InterTribal Bison Cooperative SD $175,000 Southwest Texas Goat Producers, Inc. TX $118,372 Navarro County Black Farmers and Ranchers League, Inc. TX $174,600 USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development has invested more than $90 billion since 2001 for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. More than 1.7 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA’s web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.govUSDA Rural Development is an Equal Opportunity Lender, Provider, and Employer. Complaints of discrimination should be sent to: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Washington, D.C. 20250.
11.10.2008	The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. He is Capt. Lorenza Conner, U.S. Air Force, of Cartersville, Ga. He will be buried Oct. 25 in Cartersville. On Oct. 27, 1967, Conner and his copilot flew an F-4D Phantom II fighter jet in a flight of four on a combat air patrol mission over North Vietnam where the plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire over Tuyen Quang Province, North Vietnam. The copilot ejected safely, was captured and later released by Vietnamese forces, but Conner could not eject from the aircraft before it crashed. In 1992, Vietnamese citizens told U.S. officials that they had information concerning the remains of missing U.S. servicemen and they turned over Conner’s identification tag. Between 1992 and 2003, several joint U.S./Socialist Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V.) teams, led by the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), investigated this incident, interviewed witnesses and surveyed the crash site. At the crash site, teams found aircrew-related equipment and aircraft wreckage consistent with an F-4 Phantom II. In 2007, another joint team excavated the site and recovered human remains. Among other forensic identification tools and circumstantial evidence, scientists from JPAC also used dental comparisons in the identification of Conner’s remains. For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for missing Americans, visit the DPMO Web site at http://www.dtic.mil/dpmo or call (703) 699-1169
11.10.2008	The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. Active Duty Recruiting Fiscal 2008. All services met or exceeded their recruiting goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army had 80,517 accessions, making 101 percent of its 80,000 goal - The Navy had 38,485 accessions, making 100 percent of its 38,419 goal. -The Marine Corps had 37,991 accessions, making 100 percent of its 37,967 goal. - The Air Force had 27,848 accessions, making 100 percent of its 27,800 goal. Active Duty Retention. Army and Navy exceeded their fiscal 2008 targets. Although the Marine Corps retained far more first term personnel than last year, it did not meet its ambitious first term reenlistment goals and it achieved 95 percent total retention. Air Force missed its end-of-year mission in each reenlistment zone. We expect to see Air Force retention rates improve gradually through fiscal 2009, and we anticipate that Air Force will meet its fiscal 2009 end strength mission. Reserve Forces Accessions Fiscal 2007. All six reserve components met or exceeded their accession goals for fiscal 2008. - The Army National Guard brought in 65,192 accessions, 103 percent of its 63,000 goal; the Army Reserve brought in 39,870 accessions, 106 percent of its 37,500 goal. - The Navy Reserve brought in 9,134 accessions, 100 percent of its 9,122 goal.The Marine Corps Reserve brought in 7,628 accessions, 100 percent of its 7,628 goal. - The Air National Guard brought in 10,749 accessions, 126 percent of its 8,548 goal, while the Air Force Reserve brought in 7,323 accessions, 105 percent of its 6,963 goal. Reserve Attrition. Losses in all reserve components remain within acceptable limits. (Note: This indicator lags by one month) Detailed information on specific recruiting data can be obtained by contacting the individual military recruiting commands at (502) 626-0164 for Army, (210) 565-4678 for Air Force, (703) 784-9454 for Marine Corps and (703) 697-8761 for Navy. The reserve components can be reached at the following numbers: National Guard Bureau (703) 607-2586; Army Reserve (404) 464-8490; Air Force Reserve (703) 697-1761; Navy Reserve (504) 678-6055; and Marine Corps Reserve (504) 678-6535.
10.27.2008	Rep. Ted Poe and Rep. Nancy Boyda Lead Bipartisan Request for Criminal Investigations into Economic Crisis 31 Members Sign onto Letter to Attorney General MukaseyWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-02) and Congresswoman Nancy Boyda (D-KS-02) led a bipartisan request to Attorney General Michael Mukasey to conduct an appropriate and thorough investigation into any and all financial institutions, corporations, and individuals that are suspect of criminal action relating to our current economic crisis.The bipartisan letter conveys concerns being expressed across the country from constituents about their retirement accounts, their savings, and how they can afford to send their kids to college. Since these taxpayers are forced to take a stake in the financial institutions that our government has chosen to assist, they have valid questions, and they deserve honest answers.In addition, the letter requests that the Attorney Generals office periodically notify the committees of jurisdiction in Congress with the results of the investigation; and seek cooperation from financial crime units in other federal agencies specifically requesting for the FBI to focus the appropriate funding and manpower to investigate financial crimes.As a former judge and prosecutor for over 30 years, I believe the law applies to everyone, even elite white collar criminals in New York City, said Congressman Poe. The American taxpayer has been forced to pay for the mistakes of Wall Street and they have every right to expect that those responsible are held accountable. I encourage Attorney General Mukasey to act swiftly with an investigation and if there is evidence of wrong doing on the part of any financial institution or individual, I expect them to be prosecuted. I have heard from countless constituents frustrated over our nations current economic crisis, said Congresswoman Boyda. They are upset that they must carry the burden of failing financial institutions and want to know why the government is not demanding transparency and accountability from the parties involved. I agree. Taxpayers deserve to know the truth. There needs to be a thorough investigation into the financial institutions, corporations, and individuals suspected of criminal acts contributing to this economic crisis. Any criminal activity should be brought to light and any perpetrators should face the consequences for violating the laws of our land. Our obligation on behalf of the American taxpayer is to be certain that every person who contributed to any illegal action that led to the financial breakdown our country is faced with today is held accountable and responsible, said U.S. Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO-08). I hope the Attorney General shares this view, because stern enforcement of the law in this matter is key to assuring that it does not happen again.For more information on Congressman Poe, visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/. For more information on Congresswoman Boyda, visit her website: http://boyda.house.gov/ ###
10.27.2008	Congratulations to Congressman Poes Chief of Staff Heather Ramsey Cook and her husband Matthew on the arrival of their twin baby boys, Charles Vestel Cook and Christian Matthew Cook.
10.03.2008	Bail-Out Bill; Congressman Poe Votes NO! Today, the House passed the Financial Stabilization Package, 263-171. I voted against the Wall Street Bail-Out because it doesnt do anything of the sort. The Senate bill that was before the House today was four times longer than the bill the House rejected earlier this week and loaded with squeaky pork. Somehow in the so-called effort to improve this bill and to help stabilize our financial markets, the Senate sent us a bill far worse than the first.The bill that is supposed to save us all is packed with pork and includes a $49 billion tax increase. What does pork have to do with the financial industry? Nothing. Let me point out a few: new tax earmarks for film and TV production; litigants in the Exxon Valdez incident; and tax exemptions for wooden arrows used by school children.There are more tax earmarks: NASCAR racing tracks; Indian tribes; wool research; and get this one, Virgin Islands and Puerto Rican rum. I am not making this up. There are more: tax breaks for the railroads and the mining industry. None of these solve our banking and financial crisis.This is an abuse by lawmakers and a waste of American tax dollars. As much as I would like to support legislation to stabilize our financial sector and restore confidence in our markets, I cannot support this bill.The House needs to stay in session and design a bill to deal with the financial situation, making sure that those responsible are held accountable. The American taxpayers should not be forced to go broke paying for this so-called financial rescue. The federal government has no business socializing the losses of Wall Street and saddling the American people with $49 billion in taxes and a barrel of pork.
09.23.2008	For FEMA Assistance you must register by phoneorby visiting the FEMA website. The phone number to register with FEMA is 1-800-621-3362, and you may also visit the FEMA website at FEMA.gov.
09.22.2008	Do Not Swim in Ditches, Lakes, or Bayous Due to Hurricane Ike, many of the waterways in our community have become increasingly contaminated with bacteria and toxins. Health risks that could occur from exposure to these waters include diarrhea, gastrointestinal infections and various bacterial infections, including potentially deadly bacterial infections such as tetanus (lockjaw). Harris County Public Health & Environmental Services strongly advises residents not to swim, bathe or play in ditches, bayous, creeks or lakes because of these health risks. In addition, residents are reminded that they should never enter waters that you cannot see through, that may have a swift undercurrent or may contain debris. As always, never leave children unattended around water, including swimming pools, even if they know how to swim. Protect your family and your community from injuries and drowning. If you have any questions, call 713-439-6270. Sewage Back-up in and Around Your Home Because many wastewater plants are still without electricity, there may not be enough power for their sewer lines (lift stations) to push the sewage to the wastewater plants. This may cause sewage to back-up into your home through places like toilets and bathtubs. Sewage contains germs that can cause illness, including E.coli, Cryptosporidium, Giardia, Hepatitis A, and Shigella. Symptoms from being exposed to sewage may include diarrhea, stomach pain, fever, chills, and vomiting. Seek medical attention right away if you experience any of these symptoms. You can help keep sewage from backing up into your home by limiting the amount of water going down the drain. If you are experiencing sewage back-up in your home you may need to find other locations to use the bathroom and shower (such as your local YMCA), and to wash clothes until power is restored to the lift stations. If sewage enters your home or yard, it should be cleaned up as soon as possible with cleaning solution made up of one cup unscented bleach to each five gallons of water. Be sure to protect yourself from direct contact with the sewage by wearing long pants, gloves, eyewear, and boots. Wash your hands often with soap and clean water or use alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Always make sure children and pets are kept out of the area until clean-up complete. Clean all items and surfaces touched by sewage, including childrens toys by using use 1 cup of unscented household bleach in 5 gallons of water. Throw away items that cannot be washed and cleaned (such as mattresses, stuffed animals, baby toys, and wood cutting boards) and food that may have come in contact with sewage water. You can protect your children and pets from unnecessary illness by keeping them from being exposed to sewage.
09.19.2008	As the days pass following Hurricane Ike, many Texas homeowners are now facing the difficult task of making the necessary repairs to their property. While we all begin this process, an important concern is to mitigate additional structure damage until permanent restoration is completed. The Blue Roof Program is in place to help homeowners with damage to their homes and prevent additional harm from environmental causes. This program provided by FEMA and issued through local governments, makes plastic sheeting and tarps available to homeowners as a temporary solution for structure damage. If you wish to take advantage of the Blue Roof Program there are two avenues to receive this assistance.1. To have the army corps of engineers come to your home to install a temporary roof known as plastic sheeting you can register online at www.fema.gov or call 1-888-766-3258 for the location of your nearest center. You will need to fill out a Right of Entry Form authorizing the Army Corps of Engineers to come to your home and install the plastic sheeting where your roof has sustained damage. 2. Another option available for you from Blue Roof is their free tarp pick up program. Provided by FEMA at locations decided by the state government, residents can obtain these tarps free of charge to cover roof damage until permanent repairs can be made. For locations and answers to any other questions regarding this program you can contact the Blue Roof hotline at 1-888-766-3258 or visit www.fema.gov.
09.18.2008	VA Mobile Health Clinic Opens in Beaumont BEAUMONT, TX A Department of Veterans Affairs mobile health clinic and pharmacy will open in the parking lot of the Beaumont VA Outpatient Clinic, located at 3420 Veterans Circle, on Saturday, September 20, 2008. It will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. until further notice. Thirty-three health care professionals, as well as a wide range of support teams, from VA health care facilities across the South Central United States are on the ground to provide health care to veterans affected by Hurricane Ike. The mobile health clinic and pharmacy will be able to evaluate and treat medical problems, administer immunizations, and assist with prescriptions.The Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center in Houston and the VA outpatient clinics in Conroe, Lufkin, and Texas City have resumed normal operations. The outpatient clinic in Galveston remains closed. Veterans who needmedical adviceshould call the VA Network Telecare Center Hotline at (713) 794-8985 or toll-free 1-800-639-5137. Registered nurses, pharmacists, and administrative clerks at the VA Network Telecare Center are ready to answer veteran health care questions 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The VA Network Telecare Center is not for life-threatening emergencies. Veterans with life-threatening emergencies should immediately call 911.Evacuated veterans with urgent care needs may contact any VA facility across the country by dialing 1-800-507-4571. This telephone number may also be used by families and friends requiring information about patients from those VA facilities affected the hurricane.Veterans may call with questions such as where to access health care, how to receive their prescription drugs, or any other concerns they may have about their care. Visit www.houston.va.gov for updates, emergency preparedness tips, useful Web sites and telephone numbers, safety suggestions for power outages, and more. # # # Tarps provided in Jefferson County in advance of possible showers A possibility of weekend thunderstorms has prompted emergency officials to serve hot meals, ice and a side of blue tarps at local Points of Distribution.According to Beaumont Mayor Becky Ames, tarps will be available to residents at some point today at POD locations throughout the region.Find out all POD locations at BeaumontEnterprise.com's What's Open DatabaseFord Park Update Ford Park is resource staging area, not a POD, Ford Park is currently being used as a staging area for state and federal resources. Ford Park is not a point of distribution for the public. Residents are reportedly hindering operations at the site, as they continue to stream in requesting supplies.Road ClosuresJEFFERSON: FM 366 is blocked by flooding at the intersection with FM 347; FM 365 is closed between TX 124 and Rodair Gully. The roadway is closed because a flood gate remains up.; TX 82 is closed between the Martin Luther King Jr. Bridge and the Louisiana State line. The roadway is closed because of damage to the bridge between Texas and Louisiana.; TX 73 is closed from Taylors Bayou Bridge to Englin Road and from Port Arthur to Winnie because of debris.ORANGE: Business 90 is closed from FM 1006 to Interstate 10. The roadway is closed because of flooding.CHAMBERS: TX 124 is closed between Winnie and High Island because of flooding.---Courtesy of the Beaumont Enterprise
09.18.2008	CenterPoint releases power restoration timeline by zip code, please click here to read
09.17.2008	Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneDAILY MART INC 22550 HIGHWAY 6 ALVIN TX 77511 (281) 331-7014ANGLETON CHEVRON 22602 HWY 288 B ANGLETON TX 77515 (281) 595-2244KIDD JONES-HENDERSON CTY 613 E CORSICANA ATHENS TX 75751 (903) 677-5613SPENCER DISTRIBUTING CO 201 N STEWART AZLE TX 76020 (817) 444-9608PAK PETRO MARKETING INC 2119 7TH AVE K BAY CITY TX 77414 (979) 245-0011PAK PETRO MARKETING INC 4209 W COLUMBIA BAY CITY TX 77414 (979) 245-6309IQBAL ABDULLAH 5027 IH-10 BAYTOWN TX 77520 (281) 421-3058ALI LALANI DBA 7122 HWY 59 S BEASLEY TX 77417 (979) 387-3997SUPER SAK#6 13858 STATE HIGH BEN WHEELERTX 75754 (903) 833-9212CHEVRON FOOD 305 FM 359 & IH BROOKSHIRE TX 77423 (281) 375-8515LUCKY FOOD MART 1089 W DALLAS ST CANTON TX 75103 (903) 567-2324TETCO # 1106 701 SOUTHVIEW CENTER TX 75935 (936) 598-9269TETCO #1110 I-45 & STATE HWY CENTERVILLETX 75833 (903) 536-2613KIDD JONES HWY 31 & JONES S CHANDLER TX 75758 (903) 849-2227AAB INVESTMENT INC. 16121 I-10 EAST CHANNELVIEWTX 77530 (281) 457-2678COLUMBUS CHEVRON FOOD MRT 2212 BR-71 SOUTH COLUMBUS TX 78934 (979) 733-9317KING FUELS INC. 19153 I-45 CONROE TX 77385 (281) 419-3934CIRCLE K DBA 4747 S PADRE CORPUS CHR TX 78411 (361) 851-0917BANG'S CHEVRON 10402 S. PADRE I CORPUS CHR TX 78418 (361) 937-2278TEXACO FOOD MART 6101 WILLIAMS DR CORPUS CHR TX 78412 (361) 991-6661BEACHSIDE MARKET 503 BURLESON CORPUS CHR TX 78402 (361) 882-7862JIFFY MART # 1 2821 W 7TH AVE CORSICANA TX 75110 (903) 874-3381KIDD JONES-HENDERSON CTY 941 W 7TH AVE CORSICANA TX 75110 (903) 874-5301CROSBY CHEVRON 15005 FM 2100 CROSBY TX 77532 (281) 328-3293ISMAIL BHAI 18135 TELGE ROAD CYPRESS TX 77429 (281) 351-6261CHEVRON MM #5 11005 GRANT RD CYPRESS TX 77429 (281) 890-0181E-Z MART # 14 14011 SPRING CYP CYPRESS TX 77429 (281) 376-6328SPARKY'S QUICK STOP 1901 BATTLEGRUND DEER PARK TX 77536 (281) 476-5770JIM LANEY DBA SH 259 & 154 DIANA TX 75640 (903) 663-0074POLK OIL CO. INC. 701 SOUTH TEMPLE DIBOLL TX 75941 (999) 999-9999BROOKS SMITH DBA 750 FM 517 WEST DICKINSON TX 77539 (281) 534-3913J W SCRIBNER DBA 207 PINE EDGEWOOD TX 75117 (903) 896-1433GARY BOENING DBA 1005 S WELLS EDNA TX 77957 (361) 782-7649GARY BOENING DBA 601 W MAIN ST EDNA TX 77957 (361) 782-2111JACK'S DRIVE IN 2121 NORTH MECHA EL CAMPO TX 77437 (979) 543-7181HRUSKAS 109 WEST SH 71 ELLINGER TX 78938 (979) 378-2333BOND ENTERPRISES, INC. 881 TEAGUE ST. FAIRFIELD TX 75840 (903) 389-2907BOND ENPERPRISES, INC. 690 TEAGUE ST. FAIRFIELD TX 75840 (903) 389-2533MIKE & CARLA BACICA DBA 18910 FM RD 2493 FLINT TX 75762 (903) 894-3503YOUNG OIL CO 216 EAST HARRISO GILMER TX 75644 (903) 843-3377NOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08). Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).CANYON POINT CONVENIENCE 1418 US 271 N GILMER TX 75644 (903) 797-3206PERCY'S FOOD MART 102 LOCK ST. GILMER TX 75644 (903) 843-2252BUC-EES GONZALES 114 HWY 90 A GONZALES TX 78629 (979) 230-2925JONES OIL CO. 1817 ST. JOSEPH GONZALES TX 78629 (830) 672-3355ELGEN POOL US 80 EAST HALLSVILLE TX 75650 (903) 668-2972RICK SHIPP DBA 2278 S FM 2869 HAWKINS TX 75765 (903) 769-0660HANDI STOP #105 604 MARKET ST. HEARNE TX 77859 (979) 279-6460BILLY BRYANT DBA 51267 HIGHWAY 29 HEMPSTEAD TX 77445 (979) 921-9114SUPER SHOP 3 1113 N. HWY 79 HENDERSON TX 75652 (903) 655-0832COUNTRY CLUB FOOD & GAS 9020 HWY 6 SOUTH HOUSTON TX 77083 (832) 328-1491SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES 13155 FM 1960 RD HOUSTON TX 77065 (281) 894-0356SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES 4981 HWY 6 NORTH HOUSTON TX 77084 (281) 550-3973HONG PHUOC NGO DBA 12222 529 FAIRVW HOUSTON TX 77041 (713) 849-3816LANDMARK INDUSTRIES 1002 MONTROSE BL HOUSTON TX 77019 (713) 523-0516SUSSER PETROLEUM CO LLC 8370 WINKLER HOUSTON TX 77017 (713) 644-0424LANDMARK INDUSTRIES 11101 S SAM HOU HOUSTON TX 77089 (281) 464-9611SUNMART #201 8110 N. SAM HOUS HOUSTON TX 77064 (281) 657-0690ANUM ENTERPRISES DBA 13575 A CLODINE HOUSTON TX 77082 (281) 530-9150CIRCLE K 4002 SW FREEWAY HOUSTON TX 77027 (713) 439-1543AAG TEXAS INC 1603 HWY 6 SOUTH HOUSTON TX 77077 (281) 759-7586SUSSER PETROLEUM CO LLC 21751 CLAY ROAD HOUSTON TX 77449 (832) 234-3600AMIR ZINDANI 6707 W SAM HOUST HOUSTON TX 77072 (713) 778-1990HANDI PLUS #50 6951 FM 1960 W & HOUSTON TX 77069 (281) 397-8667SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES 4502 FM 1960 HOUSTON TX 77069 (281) 587-0795PWI #110-HOUSTON 14834 IH-45 NORT HOUSTON TX 77073 (281) 209-0918PWI #159-HOUSTON 6900 N. LOOP EAS HOUSTON TX 77028 (713) 672-1918JACK'S GROCERY INC 7931 SW FWY HOUSTON TX 77074 (713) 771-3968SPEEDY STOP FOOD STORES 6102 HWY 6 HOUSTON TX 77084 (281) 463-2995AMIR ZINDANI 3941 FONDREN RD HOUSTON TX 77063 (713) 785-9810RUSCHE DISTRIBUTING 6121 IRVINGTON HOUSTON TX 77022 (713) 694-0777HANDI PLUS #10 1003 STUDEMONT HOUSTON TX 77007 (713) 861-9436JACK'S GROCERY 17070 SATURM LAN HOUSTON TX 77058 (281) 488-5415IQBAL ABDULLAH 11404 NW FWY MIL HOUSTON TX 77092 (713) 956-1439MARSH PETROLEUM DIST LP 12823 I-10 EAST HOUSTON TX 77029 (713) 450-2972SOUTH FWY TRUCK STOP 12602 HIGHWAY 28 HOUSTON TX 77047 (713) 413-8222STONEGATE PLAZA BRKER CYPRS & QU HOUSTON TX 77429 (281) 304-6750MJ'S ALL SEASON FOOD STORES 15935 LEE RD HOUSTON TX 77032 (214) 354-8483HP #62 9505 CLAY RD HOUSTON TX 77080 (999) 999-9999JAE KIM 1955 GEARS RD HOUSTON TX 77067 (281) 272-2033Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).PARKWOOD CHEVRON 1635 BARKER CYPR HOUSTON TX 77084 (281) 647-9934AMEEN ALI DBA 9445 FM 1464 HOUSTON TX 77083 (281) 277-6600RUSCHE DISTRIBUTING 5445 EAST FWY & HOUSTON TX 77020 (713) 670-7665CHEVRON FOODMART 4919 MAIN ST HOUSTON TX 77002 (713) 524-7746HANDI PLUS #48 812 W CAVALCADE HOUSTON TX 77009 (713) 868-7998BAY AREA CHEVRON 2747 BAY AREA BL HOUSTON TX 77058 (281) 218-9800SUNMART #196 1520 BARKER CYPR HOUSTON TX 77084 (281) 599-7503SMILE MART 10101 LONGPOINT HOUSTON TX 77043 (713) 647-0866MERCHANT GROUP INC 8301 ELDRIDGE HOUSTON TX 77041 (281) 890-4026GULSHAN ENTERPRISES INC 10475 VETRNS MEM HOUSTON TX 77038 (281) 447-2345C L THOMAS 13155 ALIEF CLOD HOUSTON TX 77082 (281) 575-8560JAE KIM 3230 CAMPBELL RD HOUSTON TX 77080 (713) 895-7336VADSORIA ENTERPRISES 12555 WOODFOREST HOUSTON TX 77015 (713) 455-6462WAYSIDE FOOD MART 6746 CANAL ST HOUSTON TX 77011 (713) 928-8008JAE KIM 11902 HEMPSTEAD HOUSTON TX 77092 (713) 690-2552RUBYS FOOD STORE 7500 ALMEDA RD HOUSTON TX 77054 (713) 795-0511SUNMART #146 10755 VETERANS M HOUSTON TX 77038 (281) 931-5727ALL SEASONS BEECHNUT 15050 BEECHNUT HOUSTON TX 77083 (281) 568-9334MEHBOOB MOHAMMED 4120 S SHAVER HOUSTON TX 77034 (713) 944-1582S POST OAK RD. TEXACO 16955 S. POST OA HOUSTON TX 77057 (281) 748-9856HANDI PLUS 4379 5747 ANTOINE DR HOUSTON TX 77091 (713) 812-8411A TO Z FOOD & FUEL 3326 CANAL HOUSTON TX 77003 (713) 222-0973MR. MALIK 1836 AIRLINE DR. HOUSTON TX 77009 (713) 880-9994BILL ALI 4700 NAVIGATION HOUSTON TX 77011 (713) 928-3484SUNMART #231 5716 I-45 NORTH HOUSTON TX 77076 (713) 844-8672STEVEN MALIK 3411 ANTOINE DR. HOUSTON TX 77092 (713) 682-3313PETROLEUM WHOLESALE L.P. 10841 BISSONNET HOUSTON TX 77099 (281) 564-4643TANNER FOOD MART 5702 BRITTMORE HOUSTON TX 77041 (713) 937-3948SUNNYSIDE TEXACO 10606 WILCREST HOUSTON TX 77099 (999) 999-9999JACK DILLY 10317 SHELDON RD HOUSTON TX 77049 (281) 456-0285MIKE CORDER DBA 5410 ATASCACITA HUMBLE TX 77346 (281) 812-6739C. K , ALL SEASONS 607 WILSON RD HUMBLE TX 77338 (281) 540-6759PAK PETRO MARKETING INC 4550 HWY 59 HUNGERFORDTX 77448 (979) 532-3910LANDMARK INDUSTRIES DBA 3003 HWY 30 W HUNTSVILLE TX 77340 (936) 291-0666GARY'S 1001 WALCOTT JEFFERSON TX 75657 (903) 665-8632HONEY STOP #8 101 WALCOTT JEFFERSON TX 75657 (903) 665-7662THE TOTE #31 719 CALVERT KARNES CITY TX 78118 (830) 780-2480SUNMART #131 24985 KATY FRWY KATY TX 77494 (281) 395-0515NEW CROSSING KATY INC 1350 PIN OAK RD KATY TX 77494 (281) 392-3323Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).ROYAL PETROLEUM TX LL 875 MASON KATY TX 77450 (281) 492-7358CINCO CHEVRON INC DBA 23307 CINCO RNCH KATY TX 77494 (281) 392-6601GULSHAN ENTERPRISES INC 18909 W. LITTLE KATY TX 77449 (832) 283-2786NK TEXACO 23955 FRANZ RD KATY TX 77493 (281) 347-1709ZACK ALI DBA 5304 E 5TH STREE KATY TX 77493 (281) 391-7722FOOD AND FUELSTOP 3212 STONE RD KILGORE TX 75662 (903) 983-3983LONGTEX FUEL CO INC 2710 HWY 259 N KILGORE TX 75662 (903) 753-3304COWBOY MART 100 N. HENDERSON KILGORE TX 75662 (999) 999-9999JUAN R GARZA DBA 227 W KING KINGSVILLE TX 78363 (361) 592-9345TETCO # 205 138 S. JEFFERSON LA GRANGE TX 78945 (979) 968-5921LA GRANGE CHEVRON 103 E TRAVIS LA GRANGE TX 78945 (979) 968-5032KORTS KORNER 2146 HWY 77 SOUT LA GRANGE TX 78945 (979) 968-8297SKINNER'S HWY 322 & HWY 14 LAKEPORT TX 75603 (903) 643-2000DREW HOLLINGER DBA 3026 FM 2094 LEAGUE CITY TX 77573 (281) 334-5531JERRY KIDD OIL CO INC DBA FM 317 & FM 609 LEAGUEVILLE TX 75778 (903) 852-5580JJ'S CHEVRON #3 FM 563 & US 90 LIBERTY TX 77575 (936) 336-9746MINI MART HOUSTON & WILLIS LINDEN TX 75563 (903) 756-5251PRIZZM CORPORATION DBA 1206 S COLORADO LOCKHART TX 78644 (512) 398-3055JONES OIL CO 1325 S COLORADO LOCKHART TX 78644 (512) 398-9388JONES OIL CO 1317 N COLORADO LOCKHART TX 78644 (512) 398-4996NATIONAL TRUCK STOP 15481 W FM 968 LONGVIEW TX 75602 (903) 753-1071PINE TREE FOOD MART 1000 PINE TREE R LONGVIEW TX 75604 (903) 295-6644SKINNERS MARKET 1708 JUDSON ROAD LONGVIEW TX 75601 (936) 564-4697HONEY STOP #10 3601 GILMER & WA LONGVIEW TX 75601 (903) 759-8819HONEY STOP #13 2720 E MARSHALL LONGVIEW HETX 75601 (903) 753-6678MORGAN OIL CO DBA LP 287 & OLD UN LUFKIN TX 75904 (936) 632-9385POLK OIL CO. INC. 2400 EAST DENMAN LUFKIN TX 75901 (936) 634-3918LONESTAR EXPRESS 3019 S. JOHN RED LUFKIN TX 75904 (936) 632-1667POLK OIL CO. INC. 909 SOUTH MEDFOR LUFKIN TX 75901 (936) 634-2069CHEVRON SELF SERVE 804 N TIMBERLAND LUFKIN TX 75901 (936) 632-4909POLK OIL CO INC. 1203 SOUTH CHEST LUFKIN TX 75901 (936) 632-1667POLK OIL CO. INC. 103 N. JOHN REDD LUFKIN TX 75904 (999) 999-9999POLK OIL CO. INC. 620 NORTH RAGUET LUFKIN TX 75904 (936) 639-1818JUD'S FOOD STORES DBA 701 E PIERCE LULING TX 78648 (830) 875-2421CRAWDADS 839 NORTH MAIN LUMBERTON TX 77657 (409) 755-7444MIDWAY PETROLEUM 10940 FM 1488 MAGNOLIA TX 77354 (281) 259-9992GULSHAN ENTERPRISES INC 18903 FM 1488 RD MAGNOLIA TX 77355 (281) 356-4723EAST TEXAS FUELS DBA 5925 EAST END BL MARSHALL TX 75672 (903) 938-4901EAST TEXAS FUELS INC DBA 1011 EAST END BL MARSHALL TX 75670 (903) 938-0922Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).EAST TEXAS FUELS INC DBA 2700 VICTORY DR MARSHALL TX 75672 (903) 938-6659EAST TEXAS FUELS #201 509 S WSHNGTN AV MARSHALL TX 75670 (903) 935-0900EAST TEXAS FUELS #209 100 EAST END BLV MARSHALL TX 75671 (903) 935-7471EAST TEXAS FUELS #202 404 E END BLVD MARSHALL TX 75671 (903) 935-1705P AC N SAC # 201 16985 SAN MARCOS MARTINDALE TX 78655 (512) 357-6322ULLAH INVESTMENTS INC 10358 HWY 359 MATHIS TX 78368 (361) 855-0835VALLEY VIEW MART 345 N TEXAS MERCEDES TX 78570 (956) 565-5744YOUNG'S CHEVRON INC E BROAD &NEWSOME MINEOLA TX 75773 (903) 569-6682KELLY HAMRICK DBA 4600 N US HWY 69 MINEOLA TX 75773 (903) 768-3130CARTWIRGHT CHEVRON 2420 CTWRIGHT RD MISSOURI CITTX 77489 (281) 499-3534MT. PLEASANT MEAT CO. HWY 271 @ FM-173 MOUNT PLEASTX 75455 (903) 577-5557KIDD JONES-HENDERSON CTY 300 HWY 31 MURCHISON TX 75778 (903) 469-3091MORGAN OIL FUEL STOP 4919 NW STALLNGS NACOGDOCHETX 75964 (936) 560-0558TETCO #1104 1626 N. UNIVERSI NACOGDOCHETX 75961 (936) 560-1547POLK OIL CO. INC. 2430 S.E. STALLI NACOGDOCHETX 75961 (936) 560-3067SOUTHSIDE CHEVRON US 59 LOOP 224 S NACOGDOCHETX 75961 (936) 569-7662UNIVERSITY CHEVRON 1000 N UNIVERSTY NACOGDOCHETX 75961 (936) 564-0487NORTH ST. CHEVRON 3228 N & US 59 NACOGDOCHETX 75965 (936) 564-2024DEPOT CHEVRON 428 W MAIN NACOGDOCHETX 75961 (936) 560-1333SIMONS CORNER #2 8221 MAIN ST NEEDVILLE TX 77461 (979) 793-3323THE TOTE #29 101 W CENTRAL NIXON TX 78140 (830) 582-1791ZEBA INC DBA 811 VOSS AVE ODEM TX 78370 (361) 368-9433REZWAN GADDI 9791 HWY 36 &SAN ORCHARD TX 77464 (409) 478-7505KIM'S # 3 2305 W OAK ST PALESTINE TX 75801 (903) 723-3066KIM'S # 1 1929 CROCKETT RD PALESTINE TX 75801 (903) 723-8585KIM'S #4 411 EAST PALESTI PALESTINE TX 75801 (903) 729-3945PREWITT PETROLEUM 3804 WEST OAK PALESTINE TX 75801 (903) 729-7856THE EXPRESS #2 11302 SPACE CENT PASADENA TX 77505 (999) 999-9999ASLAM VIRANI 4815 FAIRMONT PK PASADENA TX 77505 (281) 998-3229AMIN'S TEXACO 3105 RED BLUFF PASADENA TX 77503 (713) 472-0751J H WOOD DBA 3331 SPENCER HIG PASADENA TX 77504 (713) 944-5130SCHART SHARIFFSKULL 6075 W BRODWY ST PEARLAND TX 77581 (281) 997-2533RB STEWARD 2318 W MAIN PORT LAVACATX 77979 (361) 553-7726MOHAMMAD MOTAGHI JAMSHID 617 MOORE AVE PORTLAND TX 78374 (361) 643-5442LAXMI INTERNATIONAL 11095 FM 751 QUINLAN TX 75474 (903) 356-4939SUPER SAK#2 150 N. WINNSBORO QUITMAN TX 75783 (903) 763-2746KY DANG 20710 FM 1093 RICHMOND TX 77469 (281) 398-8845DIAMOND MARKET 1531 FM 359 RICHMOND TX 77469 (281) 342-3980PRIMETIME 73 E. GRANT ST. ROMA (ROMA-TX 78584 (956) 847-1173Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).ROSENBERG CHEVRON 26026 S.W. FREEW ROSENBERG TX 77471 (281) 232-4500COTTONWOOD TRAVEL PLAZA 2801 US HWY 59 @ ROSENBERG TX 77471 (281) 238-0066SUNMART #125 28111 SOUTHWEST ROSENBERG TX 77471 (281) 341-9097SAM MOMIN 4005 AVENUE N ROSENBERG TX 77471 (281) 342-0801MOHAMMAD HUSSEIN 16203 FM 521 ROSHARON TX 77583 (281) 595-3361POLK OIL CO. INC US 96 & SH 21 SAN AUGUSTI TX 75972 (936) 275-2132POLK OIL CO. INC. 802 WEST COLUMBI SAN AUGUSTI TX 75972 (936) 275-5455FOOD MART ONE 1903 IH 35 NORTH SAN MARCOS TX 78666 (512) 754-6611P AC N SAC # 104 2100 RANCH ROAD SAN MARCOS TX 78666 (512) 396-3433P AC N SAC # 103 15610 HWY 123 SAN MARCOS TX 78666 (512) 396-8302SANTE FE CHEVRON 13204 HWY 6 SANTA FE TX 77510 (409) 316-1020QAMER VIRANI 14502 SH6 & TERR SANTA FE TX 77573 (409) 925-7209ALLENS MARKET & DELI 8232 HWY 457 SARGENT TX 77414 (979) 245-4405SEALY CHEVRON FOOD MART 2007 HWY 36 S SEALY TX 77474 (979) 885-2508SUNMART #167 6150 I-10 EAST SEGUIN TX 78155 (830) 420-3301THE TOTE #1 1805 IH 10 W SEGUIN TX 78155 (830) 397-1143JUD'S FOOD STORES DBA 2999 123 BYPASS SEGUIN TX 78155 (830) 379-1201JONES OIL CO 1810 W IH-10 SEGUIN TX 78155 (830) 379-2256KYUKENDAHL CHEVRON 17627 KYKNDHL RD SPRING TX 77379 (281) 376-2098MR. PATEL 4806 SPRING STUB SPRING TX 77389 (281) 288-9400MR. PATEL 5034 FM 2920 SPRING TX 77388 (281) 288-6546HANDI PLUS #369 444 FM 1092 RD STAFFORD TX 77477 (281) 405-3723BOND ENTERPRISES, INC. 1405 SWC I-45 & STREETMAN TX 75859 (903) 599-3721SAAB PETROLEUM DBA 10145 HWY 6 SUGAR LAND TX 77478 (281) 494-5422AMIR ZINDANI 13811 HWY 59 SUGAR LAND TX 77478 (281) 494-6315VOSS PROPERTIES 11836 HWY 6 VOSS SUGAR LAND TX 77478 (281) 564-1299HANDI PLUS # 104 11930 DAIRY ASHF SUGAR LAND TX 77478 (281) 494-2917BONDS FOOD MART 401 NORTH 4TH AV TEAGUE TX 75860 (254) 739-3922PIT STOP MART INC. 2502 RICHMOND RO TEXARKANA TX 75503 (903) 832-9848SUNMART #116 24627 I-45 NORTH THE WOODLA TX 77380 (281) 364-1941JACK IN THE BOX 16003 FM 2920 TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 516-0368YAM DEVELOPMENT INC. 21003 HUFFSMITH TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 357-5999QUICK - N - EASY 24914 TOMBLL PKY TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 351-5406GAS N STUFF 24606 FM 2978 TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 351-8719SUNMART #195 110 ELLA BLVD TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 351-0857JAE S O 500 EAST MAIN TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 351-1508ISMAEL BHAI 27939 FM 149 TOMBALL TX 77375 (281) 351-6102CIRCLE S 201 N TOOL DR TOOL TX 75143 (903) 432-4299LUCKY ONE STOP 2700 S TOOL DR TOOL TX 75143 (903) 432-3348Open Texas Chevron & Texaco Facilities in Ike Impact Area(09/16/08 1200 Pacific)Site Name Street City State Zip PhoneNOTE: The locations listed shown in this document were transmitting sales data through the company satellite network at the time the report was generatedand sold fuel on 9/15/08. Inclusion in this report does not indicate that the location has fuel available for sale today (9/16/08).KIDD JONES HWY 64 TYLER TX 75702 (903) 593-5149JERRY KIDD DBA 5015 SO BROADWAY TYLER TX 75703 (903) 509-0614KIDD-JONES 1315 S BECKHAM TYLER TX 75701 (903) 595-2596GRANDE-WESTEND 2330 GRANDE BLVD TYLER TX 75703 (903) 561-7860PAC N SAC 2 6500 S BROADWAY TYLER TX 75702 (936) 564-4697SUPER SAK#3 1810 ESE LOOP 32 TYLER TX 75701 (903) 535-9568SUPER SAK#4 105 NNW LOOP 323 TYLER TX 75702 (903) 535-9918BILL DELONGE DBA 16822 HWY 155 SO TYLER TX 75703 (903) 534-9498SUPER SAK#1 1938 TROUP HWY TYLER TX 75701 (903) 597-2295SUPER SAK#5 401 S. BECKHAM S TYLER TX 75702 (903) 592-3054RABIAS MART 11369 HIGHWAY 69 TYLER TX 75706 (903) 882-4738H & Z FOUR CORNERS 6145 HWY 271 N TYLER TX 75708 (903) 597-9143SUPER FOOD MART #35 1808 W GENTRY PK TYLER TX 75702 (903) 533-1398KURESHE'S MART #2 1118 W GENTRY TYLER TX 75702 (999) 999-9999I M RAYBURN 15292 HWY 59 N VICTORIA TX 77905 (361) 575-9991J J'S CHEVRON IH 10 & FM 563 WALLISVILLE TX 77597 (409) 389-2350HAMITER'S CHEVRON IH 20 & SPUR 156 WASKOM TX 75692 (903) 687-3351ICE BOX #4440 14810 OLD GALVES WEBSTER TX 77598 (281) 286-4882STOP & SHOP #8 502 RUSK AVE. WELLS TX 75976 (903) 258-5921JR.'S TX BEST SMOKEHOUSE 164 COUNTY RD 46 WHARTON TX 77488 (979) 531-0888PAK PETRO MARKETING INC 1422 N RCHMND RD WHARTON TX 77488 (979) 282-9949BIRCHIE CLYDE RIGNEY DBA 5TH & SPUR 185 WINFIELD TX 75493 (903) 524-2014RON WEST DBA 331 E COKE WINNSBORO TX 75494 (903) 342-3828C&C COUNTRY STORE HWY 154 CORNER 2 WINNSBORO TX 75494 (903) 857-2411
09.17.2008	Please click here for a projected map of power restorations.
09.17.2008	Congressman Ted Poe has made repeated requests fortwo Point of Distribution Center (POD) locations to service Kingwood and Spring. Congressman Poe has been working closelywith Precinct 4 County Commissioner Jerry Eversole and Houston City Councilmember Michael Sullivan to address the needs of the residents in north Harris County that have been without ice and in many cases running low on food. As a result of the collaboration, the county has added a POD location at the Humble Civic Center, 8233 Will Clayton Parkway, Humble, TX,open TODAY, Wednesday, September 17 at 10am. Congressman Poe stated, "I will continue to work to see that the needed resources are available toall of my constituents and I will continue to make your voice heard loud and clear in our recovery efforts. The City of Houston must designate a POD location for Kingwood and the Harris County governmentmust officially designate a POD location in Springbefore FEMA can bring in supplies to either location."
09.16.2008	Points of Distribution Locations (POD)Greater Houston Supply Distribution Centers (Courtesy of Ch 11, KHOU):Please click here for a list of POD locations
09.16.2008	Contact Numbers for Insurance CompaniesState Farm: Report a Claim (24 hours a day): 1-800 SF CLAIM (1-800-732-5246) Texas Public Affairs: (512) 217-0610AIG: Disaster Hotline, reporting claims (24 hours a day): 1-877-244-0304 The Hartford:Personal Property & Casualty ClaimsPolicyholders Call Toll-Free:1-800-243-5860(24 hours a day, 7 days a week)Business Property & Casualty ClaimsPolicyholders Call Toll-Free:1-800-243-5860(24 hours a day, 7 days a week)Flood Claims1-800-759-8656(24 hours a day, 7 days a week)Life Insurance ClaimsPolicyholders Call Toll-Free:1-800-541-6757 x-14758(Mon - Fri, 7:30am - 6pm CST)Group Life, Disability & Accident ClaimsCustomer Service1-800-523-2233Farmers: Report a Claim: 1-800-435-7764Allstate: Call 1-800-ALLSTATE *If your claim is part of a catastrophe, please call 1-800-54-STORM (1-800-547-8676) Travelers: Auto, home and other personal property: 1.800.252.4633 (800.CLAIM33) Business insurance: 1.800.238.6225 Nationwide: 1-800-421-3535Progressive: 1-800-PROGRESSIVE
09.15.2008	For local information regarding Hurricane Ike please see the various offices of emergency management websites below.City of Beaumont Emergency Management http://www.cityofbeaumont.com/Eoc.htm The City of Houston http://www.houstontx.gov/oem/hurricane.htmlJefferson County Emergency Management http://www.co.jefferson.tx.us/em.htm Liberty County Emergency Management http://www.co.liberty.tx.us/emergencymgmt.htm Harris County Emergency Management - http://www.hcoem.org/
09.15.2008	School Closings for the 2nd District of Texas Harris County School Districts ISD Status Website Goose Creek ISD Closed until further notice http://www.gccisd.net/Channelview ISDClosed until further noticehttp://www.ccisd.net/ Cleveland ISD Closed September 15-19 http://www.clevelandisd.org/Crosby ISD Closed Monday, Sept. 15Huffman ISD Closed September 15-16Humble ISD Closed September 15-16Liberty County School Districts ISD Status Website Dayton ISDClosed September 15-19 www.daytonisd.net/ Hull-Daisetta ISD Closed until further notice http://hull.tx.schoolwebpages.com/Jefferson County School Districts ISD Status Website Beaumont ISD Closed until further notice www.beaumont.k12.tx.us/ Hamshire-Fannett ISD Closed until further noticewww.hfisd.net/ Port Neches ISD Closed until further notice www.pngisd.org Nederland ISD Closed until further notice http://www.nederland.k12.tx.us/Port Arthur ISD Closed until further noticewww.paisd.org Sabine Pass ISD Closed until further notice www.sabinepass.net
09.11.2008	ARC MANAGED & PARTNERED SHELTER & EVACUATION CENTERS Shelter and evacuation center locations are subject to change based on need and/or external conditions. For the latest shelter information, call 1-866-GET-INFO or TX211. If the caller is someone outside of Texas or is having technical difficulties, please use toll free alternate access number 1-877-541-7905. DISASTER WELFARE INQUIRIESThe Red Cross continues to encourage lcal residents to use the Safe and Well service to stay in touch with family and friends. If your office receives calls from individuals outside the disaster area who are trying to locate members in the affected areas, please direct them to the American Red Cross Safe and Well website. The site can be accessed by visiting www.redcross.org or www.safeandwell.org or by calling 1-800-RED-CROSS.
09.11.2008	For FEMA Assistance you must register by phoneorby visiting the FEMA website. The phone number to register with FEMA is 1-800-621-3362, and you may also visit the FEMA website at FEMA.gov.Emergency Contact Numbers: Jefferson County Emergency Management - 409-835-8757 Harris County Emergency Management - 713-881-3100 Liberty County Emergency Management - 936-334-3219 FEMA National Number - 800.621.3362 FEMA Jefferson County - 940-383-7231 or 1-800-275-3368 Red Cross National Number - 800-733-2767 American Red Cross Beaumont - 409-729-1717 American Red Cross Jefferson County - 409-832-1644 American Red Cross Port Arthur - 409-985-7461 For General Hurricane Enquiries You May Call -311 For up to date information on Ike click here Hurricane Checklist If you Evacuate: Pillows, blankets & sleeping bags or air mattresses: shelters do not provide these items Folding chairs or cots Extra clothing and shoes Prescription medications Personal hygiene items: toothbrush, washcloth, deodorant Food, water and ice Books, Handheld games, Toys Miscellaneous: Cleanup supplies: mop, buckets, towels, disinfectant, bleach Camera/camcorder: record property before storm & document damage afterwards Extra batteries Flat fixer for tires Work gloves Appropriate clothes for post- storm: hat, closed-toe shoes, dry socks, rain gear Animal care: ensure that proper food and water are stocked Cash Health and Safety: Flashlight and batteries: i per Liquid soap and hand sanitizer Tooth-brushing pads Water purification kit Sunscreen 2 week supply of prescription drugs Fire extinguisher Extra eyeglasses and sunglasses Insect repellant Food and Drink: Drinking water: i gal. per person per day Non-potable water: for hygienic use only Nonperishable foods Propane gas for barbecue grill 2 coolers for food and ice Manual can opener Two Weeks Supply of the following: Plastic tableware and cups Plastic wrap and plastic trash bags Toilet paper and paper towels Fuel for folding stoves Wetwipes Infant Necessities: Infant medicine Diapers Baby formula Bottles First-aid kit including the fo1lowing: Antiseptic Pain Relievers Antidiarrhea medication Antacids Medication for common illnesses
09.11.2008	AIRPORTS:On Friday, September 12, 2008 at 2:00 p.m. local time all airlines will cease commercial flight operations in and out of George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) and will not resume until further notice. No airline service is presently expected to operate at IAH on Saturday, September 13, 2008. The Houston Airport System strongly recommends that customers not go to the airports unless they have a confirmed seat and that they have also confirmed with their airline that the flight is still operating. Please check with your airline for further flight schedule changes or contact the Houston Airport System flight tracking information line at 281-230-7000 or www.fly2houston.com for further information.VETERANS AFFAIRS HOSPITALS:Galveston and Texas City clinics closed on Friday.Beaumont Clinic closedThursday and Friday.Houston VAMC cancelled elective surgeries/appointments for Friday.
09.09.2008	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and WWI Veteran Frank Buckles will hold a press conference to announce the Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act to create a national WWI Memorial in conjunction with the restoration of the existing Memorial to Washington, DC veterans. There is a memorial to honor every American hero of every war, but our veterans of WWI have been largely forgotten, said Poe. These men and women are the mothers and fathers of the Greatest Generation and their sacrifices should be honored on our National Mall. I am proud to sponsor this legislation in honor of our last remaining doughboy, Mr. Frank Buckles. Frank Woodruff Buckles, age 107, was born in 1901 in Harrison County, Missouri, and is the last known surviving veteran of WWI. Mr. Buckles served as a Corporal in the US Army, 1st Fort Riley Casual Detachment from 1917-1920. For more information on Mr. Buckles, please visit his website: http://www.frankbuckles.org/
09.05.2008	For The Most Up To Date Information on Hurricane Activity Please Visit the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration website by clicking Here
08.27.2008	The following event is cancelleddue to Hurricane Ike. Please check back for information on rescheduling or contact us at Academytexas02@yahoo.com U.S. Congressman Ted PoeInvites you to aU.S. Service Academy Information ProgramSaturday, September 13, 200810:00 a.m.Tucker HallLee CollegeBaytown, TexasRepresentatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy will be present.Information aboutCongressman Poes Service Academy Nomination process will be discussed.For further information e-mail: academytexas02@yahoo.com
08.12.2008	HOUSTONU.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Ted Poe, (R-TX-02), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today hosted a meeting with representatives from the West Brook Bus Crash Families. This group is comprised of parents of the victims of a fatal bus accident in 2006 that injured and killed members of the Beaumont West Brook High School Girls Soccer team. The parents are advocates on behalf of their children for higher motor coach and school bus safety standards on the local, state and federal level. While the organization was scheduled to meet with Sen. Cornyn in Washington next month, he rescheduled the meeting for today in light of last weeks tragic bus accident in Sherman and the need for immediate attention. Congressman Poe and I had a very informative meeting with representatives from the West Brook Bus Crash Families today. These parents have undergone tremendous heartache, yet they continue to fight tirelessly to improve bus safety standards in Texas and across the country. Their tragedy and the recent fatal accident in Sherman that took the lives of 17 members of a Houston church group, underscore the importance of addressing bus safety as quickly as possible to prevent future tragedies. Whether its in the area of manufacturing, licensing, or law enforcement, bus safety reform is an issue I will push the Senate to review immediately and comprehensively, Sen. Cornyn said. I want to continue this important dialogue with advocacy groups like the West Brook Bus Crash Families to ensure their concerns are being heard on the federal level. Church groups, sports teams, and other groups traveling in motor coaches or school busses need the assurance that their government leaders are taking every possible step to ensure their safety. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of those who were killed in Sherman last week, and also to the West Brook parents who continue to cope with the tragic losses and injuries that occurred in 2006. Rep. Poe made the following statement: "I am proud to work with Senator Cornyn on this important issue. Recent tragedies reinforce the need to promote effective bus safety. I have asked the chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Highways Subcommittee to hold a hearing on this topic immediately when Congress reconvenes in September. Our hearts go out to the West Brook families here today, the Vietnamese community and the victims and families involved in last week's tragedy in Sherman and we will not stand for these tragedies to continue. We must make the safety of our families a top priority."Note: While a full investigation is underway that may uncover additional facts, the owner of the bus that crashed and killed 17 individuals in Sherman last week could face a number of serious federal and state charges that carry stiff jail sentences and heavy fines.
07.31.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX-02) and Congressman Bill Delahunt (D-MA-12) led a bipartisan effort to appeal to President George W. Bush to personally intervene and commute the sentences of US Border Patrol agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. In response to the recent decision by the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold the most serious, yet the most unjustified charge the letter urges President Bush to consider the improper application of the 924c gun-use charge, requiring a mandatory ten year sentence, and the far reaching implications this case has on the security of our nation. Clearly, we feel the law was misapplied and law enforcement officers who are on duty and during the pursuit or apprehension of an individual who they believed had committed a crime should be an exception, the letter states. The severity of the charges and the harshness of the punishment are totally disproportionate to the violation in question.It was never the intent of Congress to have the gun-use charge apply to law enforcement officers carrying a firearm is a requirement of the job, said Poe. Congress must take action immediately to clarify for the courts what seems to be perfectly clear for the rest of America. This sends a demoralizing message to law enforcement in our country and an encouraging message to those wishing to do us harm. I respectively request that President Bush consider the merits of this request, and the far reaching effects on the rule of law in our country, and restore justice by commuting the sentences of agents Ramos and Compean. Congressman Bill Delahunt urged President Bush to take immediate action. As a former prosecutor and District Attorney, I have a strong appreciation for the rule of law in our country, said Delahunt. It's outrageous that these men should be serving more time than killers and rapists. To hit them with a gun charge carrying a mandatory minimum sentence of ten years is harsh and unnecessary. I once again urge the President to exercise his executive power and right this wrong immediately. Congressman Poe served as a prosecutor and judge in Houston, Texas for more than 30 years and is recognized nationally for his tough sentencing of criminals and support for law enforcement. For more information on Congressman Poe and his efforts, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/. Congressman Delahunt, former prosecutor and District Attorney in Massachusetts for over two decades, is recognized for his commitment to law enforcement and lifelong dedication to safeguarding civil rights in Congress. For more information on Congressman Delahunt, please visit our website: http://www.house.gov/delahunt/.
07.14.2008	Congressman Ted Poe Sponsors DRILL NOW Act Gives States Drilling Options and Revenue SharingWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) continues his push to end the longstanding moratoriums on offshore drilling and promote efforts to expand domestic energy exploration.Congressman Poe recently filed the American Energy Independence through Offshore Drilling Act to achieve greater national energy independence by terminating the current moratorium on all oil and natural gas leasing activities for any area of the Outer Continental Shelf. Poes DRILL NOW Act goes one step further by allowing individual states the option of drilling off their shores while sharing in the revenues generated by the expanded exploration. It is time to put US energy policies back into the hands of Americans said Poe. It makes logical sense that when looking for solutions we should go right to the primary source of the problem the supply of crude oil. The DRILL NOW Act allows states to decide on drilling closer to their shores and lets them share in that revenue. By limiting our ability to explore for energy we are only stifling our own energy supply, and therefore punishing our citizens with soaring energy costs. This is a win-win bill that allows for further exploration while rewarding states that want to control their own energy supply and continue respecting the environment.DRILL NOW Act of 2008: Ends current longstanding moratoriums on domestic production of energy offshore and ends any authority a president can use to issue future moratoriums; except for conflicts with military operations and/or national security. Allows states, who pass a law detailing plans for offshore drilling off their coasts, to petition the federal government to issue leases up to 50 miles off their coasts. Allows every coastal state to receive 37.5% of all royalty revenue on these leases which can be used for any purpose they choose, such as for education, transportation projects, healthcare, etc. Allows 25% of the royalty revenue on these leases to be deposited in a clean and alternative energy fund which can be used to expand future energy sources nationwide in addition to petroleum and natural gas, such as biomass, geothermal, hydrogen, fuel cells, solar, wind, and hydropower. Allows 12.5% of the royalty revenue on these leases to be used to improve coastal environments and recreation.According to the Minerals Management Service, the most promising areas for new supplies of oil (86 billion barrels) and gas (420 trillion cubic feet) continue to be offshore. Allowing this energy to be tapped will reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy, provide billions in revenue to the federal government for clean and alternative energy research, and provide billions in revenue to many cash-strapped state governments, continued Poe. While I support the notion of drilling anywhere and everywhere there is oil, including ANWR, the infrastructure in the Gulf of Mexico is already established and will yield faster results. For more information on this issue, including additional legislation, speeches and opinion editorials, please visit our website: http://poe.house.gov/Issues/Issue/?IssueID=2287
06.22.2008	Poe/Lungren File Legislation to Tighten Border Security At Sea Bill Outlaws Submarines Operating without Nationality WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congressman Daniel Lungren (CA-03) filed legislation to prohibit the operation of any submersible or semi-submersible (SPSS) vessel navigating in US territorial waters without evidence of the vessels nationality. The drug cartels in South America, specifically in Colombia, continue to figure out ways to smuggle drugs into our country and now they are doing it by sea, said Poe. The influx of illegal drugs is one of Americas greatest maritime security threats and a battle the brave men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard wage everyday. Congress must deal with this issue by making it a federal offense to use a submarine within international waters that carries no flag or registration of another nation. Under current law, it is only illegal to operate a SPSS vessel if they are in possession of illicit cargo. The Consolidated Counter Drug Database (CCDB) reported an unprecedented 27 SPSS events that successfully delivered an estimated 122 tons or 244,713 pounds of cocaine with an estimated street value of nearly $2.7 billion over a 4 month span late last year to early this year. The drug cartels are smart, continued Poe. They know if they can destroy the evidence they can't be prosecuted. We need to make a law that being in possession of this submarine is enough to prosecute them for crimes on the high seas. Congressman Poe offered an amendment addressing this issue last month to the Coast Guard Authorization Bill, which was passed by Congress and awaiting action in the Senate. However, on June 16, 2008 the US Coast Guard located a partially submerged SPSS operating 90 nautical miles northwest of the Colombia/Ecuador border. Colombian drug traffickers counter-detected the U.S. interdiction forces and quickly flooded and sank their SPSS destroying any evidence of the SPSS and indicating a need for immediate action by Congress. While we believe these SPSS vessels are currently only carry narcotics, nothing prevents them falling into the hands of terrorists, stated Poe. If these vessels can carry 13 tons of cocaine, they can carry weapons of mass destruction just as easily. The uncontrolled environment in which these vessels operate is prime for an act of terrorism off our coasts. It is imperative for the security of our nation that we act on this legislation independently and immediately. Self-Propelled Semi-Submersible (SPSS) Vessels: These mini submarines are currently being made in the jungles of Columbia SPSS vessels are made of fiberglass, typically are less than 100 feet in length Carry up to five passengers and over 13 tons Travel at speeds of up to 12 knots (14 miles per hour); they can travel from the north coast of South America to the southeastern U.S. without refueling They are constructed to remain under the surface of the water, making them difficult to detect Congressman Poe serves on the House Transportation Committee, Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee and the Congressional Port Security Caucus.
06.10.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted against H.R. 6028, the Merida Initiative to Combat Illicit Narcotics and Reduce Organized Crime Authorization Act of 2008. Congressman Poe urged defeat of the $1.4 billion drug-fighting plan for Mexico and Central America because it ignores the needs of law enforcement fighting crime along the US border. The bill passed the US House by a vote of 311-106. I fully support the fight to end the violence along the US-Mexico border, said Poe. However, I just returned from Cameron County along the Texas Mexico border and let me assure you the violence is not just south of the border. Our border sheriffs have to beg, borrow and confiscate just to have enough to get by. Congressman Poe has been an outspoken critic of this legislation citing the needs of local law enforcement in the fight to secure our borders. Congressman Poe supports the efforts of the Merida Initiative to fight drug-related crime, but has been a strong advocate for supporting law enforcement efforts on both sides of the US-Mexico border by reallocating half of the funding to US border law enforcement agencies.I have been from one end of the Texas border to the other and I understand the gravity of the situation and the domestic consequences of the warring cartels in Mexico, said Poe. It is imperative that we address the situation in Mexico, but it is irresponsible to do so while ignoring the fact that our side of the border is already infested with drug related crime and in desperate need of funding. According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), there have been over 250 incursions by suspected Mexican military units into the US in the last ten years. In addition, kidnappings on both sides of the border and assassinations of Mexican law enforcement continue to rise at an alarming pace.Our border sheriffs are outgunned and outmanned by the cartels hired guns, many of which were trained in the US, continued Poe. Past agreements with Mexico to fight drug trafficking in their country have proven disastrous. Many members of the notorious Zetas were Mexican military trained in our own country. Mexican officials originally supported the $1.4 billion gift, but then refused to take it if it was subject to US oversight. If thats not a red flag, I dont know what is.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Member of the Congressional Border Security Caucus. Poe frequently travels to the US-Mexico border and has been a leading advocate in Congress to secure our borders and fully fund our border sheriffs and local law enforcement.
06.05.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was awarded with the Congressional Crime Fighter Award 2007-2008 by the Rape, Abuse, & Incest National Network (RAINN) for his exemplary service as a Member of Congress to bring justice to victims of crime and supporting measures to raise awareness and end sexual violence.When I was an assistant district attorney and judge in Texas, I learned a lot about sexual assault and the devastation it has on victims, said Poe.During those 30 years, I came to understand that it is a fate far worse than death. I am honored to be recognized by RAINN, continued Poe. We must continue to educate our fellow citizens and promote justice for sexual assault victims, because justice is what we do in America.Congressman Poe has sponsored numerous resolutions to recognize victims of crime, advocacy agencies and law enforcement. He recently cosponsored the National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month of 2008, National Crime Victims Rights Week Act of 2008, Criminal Justice Month of 2008 and the Domestic Violence Volunteer Attorney Network Act to addresses the need to increase legal services for victims of domestic violence by creating a coordinated, nationwide system of attorney referrals to assist domestic violence victims.Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for law enforcement, victims and children.The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network is the nation's largest anti-sexual assault organization and has been ranked as one of "America's 100 Best Charities" by Worth magazine. The Crime Fighter Award program recognizes congressional support of sexual assault issues, bipartisan efforts, and leadership in pursuing legislation.
05.29.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his district office will hold open office hours in June. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.JUNE DATES AND LOCATIONS:June 5, 2008 10 a.m. 11 a.m. Barbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood Drive near Stuebner AirlineSpring, TX 77370 June 12, 200810 a.m. - 11 a.m.La Porte Branch Harris County Public Library600 South BroadwayLa Porte, Texas June 19, 20089 a.m. 10 a.m.Liberty-Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce1801 Trinity Street Liberty, Texas June 19, 200811 a.m. noonCleveland City Hall 907 East Houston Cleveland, TX
05.21.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28) offered an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Bill requiring defense contractors supporting the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan to report violent crimes committed against or by contracted employees to the Department of Defense and that the information be made public. Congress overwhelmingly approved this amendment by voice vote. This is one step in the right direction in bringing justice to victims, said Poe. It is important that Americans working overseas know that the long arm of the law doesnt stop at our borders. The sexual assault case of Jamie Leigh Jones brought to light serious concerns over how our government and US contractors handle criminal activity in Iraq and Afghanistan. I applaud this Congress for recognizing this is not a political issue and working across party lines to overwhelmingly support this important amendment. Slaughter/Poe Amendment to H.R. 5658, The Defense Appropriations Bill: Secretary of Defense shall develop requirements relating to covered offenses allegedly perpetrated by or against contractor personnel Creates a requirement for defense contractors to provide for victim and witness safety, medical assistance, and psychological assistance in the case of a covered offense Applies to all current and future government contractors Congressman Poe has been an outspoken advocate for justice on behalf of Jamie Leigh Jones. Poe was instrumental in facilitating the return of Ms. Jones after receiving a call from her father in July 2005. Congressman Poe contacted the State Departments Department of Overseas Citizen Services, which then dispatched agents from the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad to rescue her. Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims and children.
05.20.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he cosponsored the Domestic Violence Volunteer Attorney Network Act to addresses the need to increase legal services for victims of domestic violence by creating a coordinated, nationwide system of attorney referrals to assist domestic violence victims. Congressman Poe proudly joins the Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Congressman John Conyers (D-MI) in sponsoring this bipartisan legislation. The same Constitution that protects the rights of defendants in the courtroom is the same Constitution that protects the rights of victims of crime, said Poe. Often times, victims of domestic violence find they have nowhere to turn, no money for attorneys, nor the knowledge to navigate the legal system that traditionally overlooks their needs. This bill aims to help these victims with the legal assistance they need to secure their safety and potentially save their lives. HR 6088, the Domestic Violence Volunteer Attorney Network Act: Creates an electronic network of volunteer attorneys. The network will be managed by the American Bar Association Commission on Domestic Violence, which will solicit and mentor the lawyers and conduct training and provide other technical assistance. Authorizes new funds to the National Domestic Violence Hotline to update the system and train advocates on how to provide referrals for voluntary attorneys. Creates a pilot program to implement the volunteer attorney network in five states. The program will be administered by the Office of Violence Against Women in DOJ. After these five years, if successful, the program will be rolled out nationally. Establishes a Domestic Violence Legal Advisory Task Force, which will monitor the program and make recommendations. Mandates a GAO study to assess the scope and quality of legal services available to battered women in each state. The GAO will report to Congress within one year. Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and life-long advocate for victims and children. Congressman Poe serves on the Board of Directors for the Childrens Assessment Center in Houston and recognized nationally for his efforts on behalf of victims.
05.14.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) offered an amendment today to H.R. 6028, the Merida Initiative to Combat Illicit Narcotics and Reduce Organized Crime Authorization Act of 2008, to reduce funding to Mexico by half and re-direct that funding to state and local law enforcement along the United States border. Our border sheriffs are desperately understaffed and outgunned, said Poe. It makes no sense to me to send over a billion dollars of US taxpayer money in the form of US military equipment and training to Mexico when we need it right here on our own border. When are we going to stop securing the borders of other countries and take care of our own? The Merida Initiative is a $1.11 billion program designed to help Mexico and Central American countries fight organized crime and drug- trafficking. The Poe Amendment would require that half of the funding appropriated for this program will stay in the United States. It is an undeniable fact that Mexico has a long history of corruption, continued Poe. Past agreements with Mexico to fight drug trafficking in their country have proven disastrous. Many members of the notorious Zetas were Mexican military trained by the US military in our own country. As a former judge that was known for being tough on crime, I fully support the efforts by both countries to fight drug trafficking. But, I cannot allow US taxpayer money to head south of the border and put the law enforcement needs of another country before those of our own. Poe Amendment to HR 6028: Reduces funding to Mexico by half, reallocating the remainder of funding to the state and local law enforcement agencies in US border states and localities for fiscal years 2008 2010. Authorizes the Attorney General to provide grants to law enforcement agencies of States and localities located on the United States-Mexico border for the purpose of combating illicit narcotics trafficking and human and weapons trafficking activities at or near the United States-Mexico border. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and Member of the Congressional Border Security Caucus. Poe frequently travels to the US-Mexico border and has been a leading advocate in Congress to secure our borders and fully fund our border sheriffs and local law enforcement.
05.02.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his district office will hold open office hours in May. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.MAY DATES AND LOCATIONS:Wednesday, May 7, 20081 pm 3 pmTheodore Johns Library4255 FannettBeaumont, TXThursday, May 8, 20089am 10amBaytown Chamber of Commerce1300 Rollingbrook, Suite 400Baytown, TX Thursday, May 15, 20089am 10am Dayton Chamber of Commerce 212 Bryan StreetDayton, TX Thursday, May 15, 200811am - 12pm Cleveland City Hall907 E. Houston Street Cleveland, TXFriday, May 16, 20082 pm 4pmPort Arthur Senior Citizens Center1308 9th AvenuePort Arthur, TX Wednesday, May 21, 20081 pm 3 pmGroves Library5600 W. WashingtonGroves, TXWednesday, May 28, 20081 pm 3 pmNederland Chamber of Commerce1515 Boston AvenueNederland, TX
04.30.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) proudly cosponsored a Resolution this week recognizing the important contributions made daily by our nations educators. Teachers plant the seeds of learning in the minds of their students, said Poe. I support America's teachers and I am proud to be a cosponsor of this resolution. This measure recognizes significant roles and contributions that America's teachers have had and continue to have building and enhancing our country's civic, cultural and economic well-being. National Teacher Appreciation Week, May 4, 2008, through May 10, 2008, is to raise public awareness of the unquantifiable contributions of teachers and to promote greater respect and understanding for the teaching profession.The U.S. Census Bureau reports that there are six million teachers in the United States, continued Poe. My career in public service is a direct result of the influence by my seventh grade Texas history teacher, Mrs. Wilson. She formed early on a desire in my soul to go into public service. I encourage everyone to take the time to thank those teachers that made a difference in their lives.In addition to cosponsoring HR 1130, Congressman Poe has also cosponsored additional legislation aimed at addressing social security benefits for teachers: the Social Security Fairness Act of 2007 repeals the Government Pension Offset (GPO) and Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) that alters Social Security benefits for teachers, firefighters, and peace officers whose retirement plans are different from Social Security.
04.24.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that his amendments to the Coast Guard Authorization Act passed the US House of Representatives. Congressman Poe offered two amendments to specifically address issues of national security in international waters and domestic passenger cruise safety.Congressman Poe joined Congressman Dan Lungren (CA-03) to author an amendment to criminalize the operation of stealth semi-submersible vessels in international waters. Currently, federal law states that it is only a crime to operate one of the vessels if the Coast Guard recovers illicit drugs on board.The influx of illegal drugs is one of Americas greatest maritime security threats and a battle the brave men and women of the U.S. Coast Guard wage everyday, said Poe. While these vessels presently are only transporting narcotics, they could conceivably be used also in alien smuggling or fitted with explosive devices and used by terrorists to attack naval vessels, cruise ships, or oil tankers in the Caribbean or Eastern Pacific. Criminalizing their operation therefore would deter the use of these vessels and facilitate effective prosecution to stop this treacherous and emerging trend.Over a recent four month span, the Coast Guard has reported that 27 of these submarines were carrying an estimated 122 tons of cocaine at a value of nearly $2.7 billion. These vessels are reportedly being made in the jungles of Columbia and are constructed and operated to avoid detection, with mechanisms to rapidly sink and destroy their elicit cargo if spotted by maritime law enforcement to conceal the evidence of a crime. In addition, Congressman Poe joined Congresswomen Matsui (CA-05) and Maloney (NY-14) and Congressman Shays (CT-4) in authoring an amendment to inform the public of the potential for a crime to occur while on a cruise ship. The amendment requires the Coast Guard to maintain a numerical accounting of missing persons and alleged crimes committed on cruise ships and have the information available online. The database will be updated quarterly and requires cruise lines to include a link to this database on their public websites.This year nearly 10 million Americans will board a cruise ship and set sail from an American port, said Poe. At this time there is no oversight or accountability of the safety and security of these citizens. There have been a number of high profile cases in the news of passengers falling overboard, passengers gone missing, and passengers being victims of sexual assaults. This amendment will help create a more informed and aware passenger, and hopefully will help prevent another sexual assault, violent crime, missing person or death on a ship.Congressman Poe serves on the House Transportation Committee, Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee and is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus advocating on behalf of victims, children and law enforcement.
04.23.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed legislation today honoring National Peace Officers Memorial Day. Each year, the President issues a Proclamation naming May 15th as National Peace Officer Memorial Day. Poes resolution supports the goals and ideals of this day and calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect. "We are grateful for the selfless service of this nations law enforcement officers, said Poe. They protect our lives and our property regardless of the dangers to themselves. It is important that we as a Congress and a nation pay tribute to the brave men and women who wear the badge of a law enforcement officer. There are more than 900,000 sworn law enforcement offices serving in the United States. In 2007, 181 officers gave their lives in the line of duty. More than 18,200 law enforcement officers have been killed in the line of duty since the first recorded police death in 1792.H. Res. 1132 - National Peace Officers Memorial Day supports the goals and ideals of Peace Officers Memorial Day to honor federal, state, and local peace officers killed or disabled in the line of duty; and calls upon the people of the United States to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies and respect. Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims, children and law enforcement agencies.
04.17.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his legislation designating the US Postal Service in Humble, Texas, as the "Texas Military Veterans Post Office" unanimously passed the US House of Representatives, 413-0. There is no better time to recognize our Texas war heroes, said Poe. April 21st marks Texas most important military victory, establishing our independence along the marshy banks of the San Jacinto. From 1836 to today, Texans have proudly served our great state and country on the battlefield. One in every ten members wearing the uniform of the United States is a Texan. This bill honors all of our veterans yesterdays, todays and tomorrows military heroes.HR 5517, Texas Military Veterans Post Office Designation Act: To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 7231 FM 1960 in Humble, Texas, as the "Texas Military Veterans Post Office." This facility is located near the intersection of FM 1960 and Foxwood Forest Blvd. HR 5517 had 31 cosponsors, the support of the entire Texas Congressional Delegation. Congressman Poe has successfully passed two previous bills renaming US Postal facilities in Congressional District 2 the Lance Corporal Robert Robbie Martinez Post Office in Cleveland, Texas, and the Lillian McKay Post Office in Humble, Texas.In addition, Congressman Poe has formally requested that the US Postal Service consider opening an additional post office in northeast Houston to serve the growing population of the Atascocita, Eagle Springs and Summerwood communities.
04.16.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, joins co-chair Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) to announce their legislation, the National Crime Victims Rights Week Act of 2008, passed the US House of Representatives. During National Crime Victims Rights Week, community leaders and organizations recognize the importance of victims rights, said Poe. The week honors both crime victims and the individuals who advocate for them every day. This years theme, Justice for All Justice for Victims, is most appropriate because without justice for victims, we do not have justice at all.This act designates the week of April 13th as National Crime Victims Rights Week to increase public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of victims and survivors of crime in the United States. Crime victims are our sons, daughters, and our friends and neighbors, said Costa. This years them of National Crime Victims Rights Week is Justice for All, and we need to do more as a nation to ensure all victims of crime are afforded their legal rights and provided with assistance as they face financial, physical, and psychological impacts of crime.As co-chairmen of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Poe and Costa have been leaders in bringing the issue of crime victims rights to the forefront in Congress. The Caucus has been successful in authoring legislation and amendments to help bring more debate to the issue, as well as protecting the Victims of Crime Act fund.
04.11.2008	For the third consecutive year, the United States Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) with its prestigious Spirit of Enterprise award for his strong support for a pro-economic growth legislative agenda in Congress. I am honored to be recognized by the United States Chamber of Commerce for the third straight year, said Poe. Small business owners and American workers will always have my vote when it comes to supporting legislation that encourages growth and commerce. Small business is the cornerstone of our economy and our country, I will continue to be a strong voice in Washington on behalf of small business.The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives Members of Congress for key business votes outlined in its annual publication, How They Voted. Representative Poe has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans, said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. The Chamber is grateful for Teds commitment to these important issues and is proud to present him with this award.The U.S. Chamber is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region.
04.10.2008	Co-Chairs Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA)joined members of the bipartisan Congressional Victims Rights Caucus to honor this years outstanding individuals that have given their time and service to helping victims at a special ceremony held in their honor.The 2008 Victims Rights Caucus Recipients:(1) Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award Jamie Leigh Jones for her efforts in raising national awareness of the plight of American contractors victimized abroad. By creating the Jamie Leigh Foundation, Jamie Leigh provided a voice for other victims and enabled other victims to find strength and comfort in knowing that they are not alone. This is the first year that the former Public Awareness Award will be entitled the Suzanne McDaniel Public Awareness Award. Suzanne McDaniel is one of the first prosecutor-based victim advocates in Texas and the nation. She has advocated for crime victims at the local, state, and federal levels. She created Harris Countys first community interagency councils on sexual assault and family violence and the first rape exam protocol for Houston Hospital and Medical Associations. She created the Texas Crime Victim Clearinghouse, the first statewide resource in the nation. She also helped draft and pass the Texas Crime Victim Bill of Rights, the Texas Crime Victims Compensation Act, and the Texas Constitutional Amendment on Crime Victim Rights. (2) Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy Jim Rowland, who completely changed the way the judicial system perceives and treats crime victims. He is known as the father of the victim impact statement, which is now instituted in every state and which refocused the courts attention on the human cost of crime. In 1976, this was a revolutionary idea. It allowed written or oral information to be presented about the impact of the crime on the victim and the victims family. These statements allow the court to refocus its attention on the human cost of the crime and provides a way for the victim to participate in the criminal justice process. Because of his efforts, crime victims received the consideration, fairness, and support that they were lacking. (3) Allied Profession Award Sheriff Michael Jackson, Prince Georges County, Maryland. Under his leadership, domestic violence cases are now a priority in Prince Georges County. By creating the Domestic Violence/Community Services Unit, he implemented a unique and comprehensive approach to victim services and protection. He also created the first 24 hour - 7 days a week Domestic Violence Intervention Unit, the first civilian Domestic Violence Intervention/Community Services Unit, and the Domestic Violence Victim Advocate Unit, which demonstrate his unparalleled and remarkable commitment to crime victims. (4) Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award Laurie Dishman, who was sexually assaulted on a cruise ship. Since this tragedy, Laurie has fought to ensure justice for other cruise ship victims. Shes provided a voice and support network for other cruise ship victims. (5) Lois Haight Award of Excellence and Innovation Gloria Sandoval for her work as the leader and initiator of innovative programs such as Zero Tolerance for Domestic Violence, and Safe 4 US. Glorias contributions changed the way state government agencies address the needs of crime victims. (Ms. Sandoval will not be present at the awards ceremony.)The Victims Rights Caucus is a bipartisan caucus which advocates and provides a voice for all victims of crime, as well as law enforcement, in Congress. The Caucus was established by Congressman Poe in 2005 and has 32 bipartisan Members. For more information on the VRC, please visit our website at http://poe.house.gov/vrc/index.htm.
04.09.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) applauds the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations for holding todays hearing on how to close the legal loopholes and prosecute violent crimes committed overseas by American civilian contractors. I became involved in this issue nearly three years ago when my constituent called me asking for help for his daughter, Jamie Leigh Jones, Poe stated in written testimony. The United States government has a responsibility to protect American civilians who work in support of an American military mission overseas. The government affords these protections to American citizens on American soil and to American soldiers in combat, but the government doesnt know how to react when the crime involves contractors. This is unacceptable. Congressman Poe has championed the effort to bring justice to Ms. Jones and raise awareness within our federal agencies to the serious issue of crimes on American contractors overseas. Its been nearly three years since Jamie was assaulted, but still she has not seen justice, stated Poe. Although an Assistant US Attorney interviewed Jamie and a State Department Special Agent investigated her case, Jamie was left in the dark about the status of her case for long periods of time. After two and a half years, Jamie wanted answers, so she decided to go public with her case.Since Ms. Jones decision to go public with her story, Congressman Poe has repeatedly demanded answers into the investigation on her behalf and asked for an explanation of government protocol in investigating all crimes against civilian contractors overseas.My repeated inquiries to the Department of Justice have received generic responses, all providing already known information, continued Poe. In January, I sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Secretary of Defense Robert Gates along with 110 Members of Congress, requesting detailed information on the policies, procedures, and protocol that exist to prevent and respond to sexual assaults on contractors in Iraq. In his response, Secretary Gates informed me that he called for the Department of Defense Inspector General to conduct a review of the Departments policies and procedures regarding crimes committed against civilian contractors in Iraq and for possible recommendations. I look forward to the conclusions and recommendations, but in the interim, we must not forget the women victimized in Iraq and further victimized by the system that is set up to deliver justice.Poe concluded his statement by stating, Americans cannot go abroad and commit attacks on fellow Americans without the long arm of the law holding them accountable. Jamie deserves justice; the other victims deserve justice; and justice is what we do in America. And thats just the way it is. Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and is recognized nationally for his dedication and support for victims and children.For a list of todays witnesses, please visit the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs website: http://www.senate.gov/~foreign/.
04.09.2008	Congressman Poe Continues Push for Justice for Jamie Leigh Jones Urges Prosecution and Explanation of Procedure at Senate Hearings Justice is what we do in AmericaCongressman Ted Poe (TX-02) applauds the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations for holding todays hearing on how to close the legal loopholes and prosecute violent crimes committed overseas by American civilian contractors. I became involved in this issue nearly three years ago when my constituent called me asking for help for his daughter, Jamie Leigh Jones, Poe stated in written testimony. The United States government has a responsibility to protect American civilians who work in support of an American military mission overseas. The government affords these protections to American citizens on American soil and to American soldiers in combat, but the government doesnt know how to react when the crime involves contractors. This is unacceptable.Congressman Poe has championed the effort to bring justice to Ms. Jones and raise awareness within our federal agencies to the serious issue of crimes on American contractors overseas. Its been nearly three years since Jamie was assaulted, but still she has not seen justice, stated Poe. Although an Assistant US Attorney interviewed Jamie and a State Department Special Agent investigated her case, Jamie was left in the dark about the status of her case for long periods of time. After two and a half years, Jamie wanted answers, so she decided to go public with her case.Since Ms. Jones decision to go public with her story, Congressman Poe has repeatedly demanded answers into the investigation on her behalf and asked for an explanation of government protocol in investigating all crimes against civilian contractors overseas.My repeated inquiries to the Department of Justice have received generic responses, all providing already known information, continued Poe. In January, I sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Secretary of Defense Robert Gates along with 110 Members of Congress, requesting detailed information on the policies, procedures, and protocol that exist to prevent and respond to sexual assaults on contractors in Iraq. In his response, Secretary Gates informed me that he called for the Department of Defense Inspector General to conduct a review of the Departments policies and procedures regarding crimes committed against civilian contractors in Iraq and for possible recommendations. I look forward to the conclusions and recommendations, but in the interim, we must not forget the women victimized in Iraq and further victimized by the system that is set up to deliver justice.Poe concluded his statement by stating, Americans cannot go abroad and commit attacks on fellow Americans without the long arm of the law holding them accountable. Jamie deserves justice; the other victims deserve justice; and justice is what we do in America. And thats just the way it is.Congressman Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and is recognized nationally for his dedication and support for victims and children. For a list of todays witnesses, please visit the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs website: http://www.senate.gov/~foreign/.
04.07.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) traveled to Iraq over the Easter weekend to visit with US Troops, Military leaders and get a first hand account of the progress in Iraq.Morale is good amongst our troops on the ground in Iraq, said Poe. I had the opportunity to talk with many of the brave young men and women on the front lines and get their opinions on our progress. These are amazing people, the worlds finest military, and they firmly believe in what they are doing and said they have seen remarkable progress with the latest troop surge.This was Congressman Poe's second Congressional visit to Iraq. Poe serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Terrorism Subcommittee and a Member of the Congressional Anti-Terrorism Caucus.From the Cleveland Advocate, by Vanesa Brashier:A winnable war: Poe feels the U.S. is making strides in Iraq Congressman Ted Poe rides a Blackhawk helicopter during his visit to Iraq. He marveled at the crews of the choppers, calling them "an unusual bunch." Poe was impressed by their fearlessness and skill. U.S. Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas) feels it is incumbent on every member of Congress to go to Iraq to better understand how the war is being fought and won by the American military.If we have to make decisions about Iraq, we have a duty to learn first-hand the situations, Poe said. Poe recently returned from a three-day visit to Iraq, where he met with General David Petraeus and other American generals, commanders and soldiers.The congressman from Texas came away from that trip with a deeper understanding of the progress that has been made in the five years since the war began. Petraeus is in charge and he understands, not only the military situation, but the political situation. We do well with him in charge, said Poe. The troops and the morale are tremendous. They have a lot of confidence in their mission and feel like they can do a good job.While there, Poe also met with Iraqi police and members of the Iraqi military. One of the changes he witnessed that was different from his first trip to Iraq was that U.S. and Iraqi forces were working together. They are all doing their own missions and have their own responsibilities, but now you will see them working together on assignments, he said, adding that the Iraqis seem to have a deep admiration for the American military. This cohesiveness toward common goals not only helps the security of the country, but political situations as well. Even so, there are times when insurgents find a way to strike. Poe was in the Green Zone in Baghdad during the Easter attack in which five people were injured. Another attack on Mosul resulted in over 50 deaths, including 13 Iraqi soldiers. Poe was preparing for breakfast with Texas troops on the morning of the attack on the Green Zone. We got a warning that there were incoming rockets. Two of them hit about 50 meters from where we were. One hit a warehouse and the motorpool. The other hit another building, he said.When asked if the U.S. is engaged in a generation-long battle, like it was referred to by the British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, Poe had to agree with that sentiment. I guess we would have to go back and decide when the first terrorist attack occurred. Its already been a generation and this is a worldwide issue, but the battle for terrorism really is in the Middle East, he said. The people who hate America, hate the West, that small group is passionate in their cause and are not going to sit around a table and reason with us. They are long past that stage. Its going to be a long endeavor and the American people need to be realistic about it.Poe talked briefly about how the presidential election is likely to impact the war in Iraq. No matter who the president is, it would be irresponsible to say we are leaving next year. The Iraqi citizens are concerned about us leaving. You dont have to be running for president to realize that the situation would be unstable is we just pulled out, he said, adding that he feels that Republican presidential candidate John McCain and Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton understand whats at stake. History is going to show we were on the brink of victory in Vietnam when we left. We got up and left just as we were ready to cross the goal line. There have always been casualties of war, but the cost of freedom is always high, Poe continued. The naysaying and backbiting of American politics does not help the morale any, according to Poe. It causes uncertainty among the Iraqis and we need the cooperation of Iraqi citizens to find the insurgents. When they hear we are going to leave, they are reluctant to help us, Poe said. Though Americans are accustomed to publicly debating politics, during times of war, it can go against the war effort. Petraeus has explained to the Iraqis that this is how America is. We debate and discuss every issue, said Poe.The American media, he feels, has helped perpetuate the problem. The national media do not report the big picture. Thats what the troops told me. I heard that several times, Poe said. I think the community newspapers in our country seem to understand whats going on abroad better than the national media.Toward the end of his trip, Poe got a chance to visit with soldiers, particularly Texas troops who are quite recognizable with their Texas flags, and UT and A&M emblems emblazoned on their equipment. What they told him is that they want the American public to understand that they are helping the Iraqi people by helping them set up a democracy.Because of the Internet, they know everything we hear about the war on this side, he said. They want us to know that we are moving in a positive direction.
04.04.2008	The Office of Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will be hosting an informational program for high school students in the 2nd Congressional District to learn more about the United States Service Academies and the application process. Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy will be present to talk to students and their parents as well as answer questions. The Service Academy Coordinator for Congressman Poe will also explain the application process, criteria and important upcoming deadlines.The Service Academy day will be centrally located in Baytown and is open to all residents of the 2nd Congressional District.WHEN: Saturday, April 5, 200810:00 AM WHERE: Lee CollegeCyber CafeBaytown, Texas http://www.lee.edu/maps.asp
03.31.2008	The Governmentrecently passed the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 entitling many people to a rebate check. To find out if you qualify for a rebate, to learn how to receive your payment, and forfrequently asked questions regarding theEconomic Stimulus Act of 2008please click on the link below.www.irs.gov
03.14.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently sent hundreds of Get Well cards made by area school children to our military men and women hospitalized overseas. As an ongoing effort to offer support to our troops serving throughout the world, Congressman Poe and children from the 2nd Congressional District sent a Texas-sized bundle of well wishes as part of the Department of Veterans Affairs, National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans program. As we all know, everything is bigger in Texas and so is the support for our troops, said Poe. These hand-made cards from home mean the world to our wounded war heroes and truly make a difference in their recovery. I am proud to take part in this tradition and thank all of our children for their sincere support of the young men and women putting their lives on the line a world away so we can continue to enjoy freedom at home. This year, through the help of the Soldiers Angels organization, Congressman Poe was able to send hundreds of cards to patients at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Landstuhl, Germany, the largest American hospital outside the United States. Last year, Congressman Poe personally delivered the hand-made cards to our troops in military hospitals. In all, I have been able to send over 5000 cards from Texas to our wounded troops in hospitals overseas, said Poe. On my last visit, I began reading through the cards on the plane and before I knew it we had a plane full of teary-eyed passengers passing hundreds of these cards around. The impact of the innocent words of a child is magical. I cannot thank the Soldiers Angels group enough for all that they do for our countrys heroes. Over 2000 cards were collected from Jefferson County schools: Dowling Elementary; Port Neches Groves ISD, Ridgewood Elementary; Odom Academy, Regina Howell Elementary, Central High School, Dishman Elementary School, Curtis Elementary School, Homer Drive Elementary School, Port Neches Middle School, Marshall Middle School, Pietzsch MacArthur Elementary School, Eugene Field Elementary School, Hampshire-Fannett Elementary School, Brown Center, Central Middle School, Highland Park Elementary School, Hillcrest Elementary School, Nederland High School, Amelia Elementary School, Ogde Elementary School, and Austin Middle School.Soldiers Angels is a volunteer based, 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Soldiers Angels mission is to provide aide and comfort to the men and women of the United States Army, Marines, Navy, Air Force and the Coast Guard and their amazing families. For more information on this organization, please visit their website: www.soldiersangels.com.
03.13.2008	Congressman Ted Poe announces that his staff will host an IRS workshop on Friday, March 14th from 11am - 12pm atHumble City Hallto learn about the economic stimulus tax rebates.Representatives from Congressman Poe's District Office andthe IRS will be on hand to answer questions and assist constituents.WHEN:Friday, March 14, 200811 a.m.-12 p.m.WERE:Humble City Hall114 W. HigginsHumble, Texas 77338
03.04.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his district office will hold open office hours in March. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.MARCH DATES AND LOCATIONS: Wednesday March 5, 20081 pm 3 pmPort Arthur Public Library4615 9th Avenue Port Arthur, TX 77642 Thursday, March 6, 200810am 11am Barbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood Drive near Stuebner AirlineSpring, TX 77370Thursday, March 13, 20089am 10am Baytown Chamber of Commerce1300 Rollingbrook @ Garth (Amegy Bank Tower)Baytown, TX 77521 Thursday, March 13, 20081 pm 3pmR.C. Miller Library 1605 Dowlen Road Beaumont, TX 77706 Wednesday, March 19, 20081 pm 3pmNederland Chamber of Commerce1515 BostonNederland, TX 77627 Thursday, March 20, 20089am 10amDayton Chamber of Commerce212 Bryan StDayton, TX 77535Thursday, March 20, 200811am noonCleveland City Hall 907 East Houston Cleveland, TX Wednesday, March 26, 20081 pm 3pmGroves Public Library5600 W. WashingtonGroves, TX 77619
02.13.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) continues to lead the fight against the Federal Aviation Administrations (FAA) plans to consolidate the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facility at the Southeast Texas Regional Airport (BPT) in Port Arthur, Texas. Congressman Poe extends his appreciation to the FAA for holding a meeting with Jefferson County officials this week, but he urges the FAA to delay their decision to move forward with the scheduled April transfer of the Port Arthur facility to the Houston facility until they complete their community stakeholder meetings.In August of 2007, Congressman Poe hosted a Town Hall Meeting with the FAA to give residents the opportunity to voice their opinions and ask questions regarding the proposed transfer. As a result of that meeting, the FAA was to hold additional meetings with various community stakeholders. Unfortunately, on January 18, 2008, the FAA announced that they would go forward with the April consolidation deadline before hearing from all interested parties.I appreciate the FAA coming to Jefferson County this Friday to meet with stakeholders, but I would like to see them keep their word to meet with private pilots and air traffic controllers before the consolidation takes place, said Poe. There are valid concerns over service and safety in our skies resulting from this consolidation and these concerns need to be fully addressed before they move forward. Senator Hutchison and I have personally met with FAA Administrator Bobby Sturgell and we have had ongoing communications regarding the best way to handle this transition with the affected stakeholders. However, the decision by the FAA to move forward without involving the community stakeholders further is very disappointing.Congressman Poe is taking continued measures to ensure that safety, not money, is the number one priority for this consolidation. Congressman Poe is urging the FAA to raise the staffing range levels of Air Traffic Controllers at the Houston facility to include dedicated personnel for the Southeast Texas region that will be consolidated into their airspace. Additional personnel in the Houston TRACON facility are vital to air traffic safety and service to pilots, continued Poe. It doesnt make sense to increase the number of planes in your airspace and not the number of Air Traffic Controllers to coincide with that increase. It is of the utmost importance that the FAA implements a plan that will ensure safety and the highest level of service in our skies. There is no room for penny-pinching in this business.In May 2007, Congressman Poe sponsored the FAA Facility Consolidation Moratorium Act to place a temporary moratorium on consolidations of all TRACON facilities that resulted in the initial postponement of the TRACON at the Southeast Texas Regional Airport.Congressman Poe serves on the House Transportation Committee; Aviation Subcommittee and has been a leading advocate against the BPT TRACON Consolidation. Poe maintains regular communication with the FAA, the Airline Owners and Pilots Association, community leaders and constituents in an ongoing effort to ensure all parties have input on this issue.
02.12.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) extended an invitation to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to come to southeast Texas to personally evaluate the security needs of the Port of Beaumont and the surrounding petrochemical industry.I am deeply troubled by the stealth-like move by the Department of Homeland Security to undercut the security at our nations largest military port without any prior notification or input from local officials. The Port of Beaumont and the surrounding petrochemical industry, which is home to the largest refineries in our country, is vital to the security and economic stability of our entire nation. I have extended and invitation for Secretary Chertoff to come to Jefferson County with me and see for himself the need for the highest level of security.In a letter dated, February 12, 2008, Congressman Poe stressed that the recent decision to downgrade the security level of the Port of Beaumont from Tier I to Tier II must be immediately reconsidered. This change in security status could drastically reduce the eligibility for federal grant funding directly affecting the security needs along the Sabine Neches Waterway (SNWW). I am disappointed your department has failed to take into account the importance this waterway has on both the military and economic needs of the nation when coming up with your criteria, said Poe. Should this downgrade be allowed to happen and should these grants be reduced, it takes away vital resources to protect the maritime industries in this region. It is the top commercial military port in the nation, sending valuable resources to our troops fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation and a Member of the Congressional Port Security Caucus. ###
01.29.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently received a response from the Department of State after repeated requests for information regarding the investigation of sexual assault allegations made by Jaime Leigh Jones against American coworkers in Iraq. However, Congressman Poe deemed the response unacceptable and raised new concerns over the lack of cooperation by federal government agencies.On January 7, 2008, Mr. Jeffery T. Bergner, Assistant Secretary of Legislative Affairs of the United States Department of State stated that the Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security conducted an investigation of Ms. Jones' case beginning in 2005 and referred Ms. Jones' case to the Department of Justice in the spring of 2007. Mr. Bergner referred any further inquiries concerning criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice. According to the State Department response, they completed their investigation in the spring of 2007. However, Ms. Jones says that investigators have been in contact with her as recent as last week. The investigation timeline that you presented has raised serious concerns, said Poe in a written response dated January 28, 2008. My office has been informed that State Department Special Agent Lynn Falanga was in frequent contact with Ms. Jones throughout the fall of 2007 and is still in frequent contact with Ms. Jones as recently as the week of January 22, 2008. I find your response unacceptable. Due to the continued lack of cooperation, Congressman Poe also requested a meeting with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to discuss this issue further.Congressman Poe was instrumental in facilitating the return of Ms. Jones after receiving a call from her father in July 2005. Congressman Poe contacted the State Departments Department of Overseas Citizen Services, which then dispatched agents from the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad to rescue her. Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims and children. For more information on Congressman Poes efforts on behalf of Ms. Jones, please visit our website at: http://poe.house.gov/
01.17.2008	INDUSTRIAL TOWN HALL MEETINGCongressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host an informational town hall meeting for Jefferson County contractors to assist them in learning more about the contracting process for area expansion projects. Representatives from local Chambers of Commerce and major industrial companies will be on hand to answer questions. WHEN: Saturday, January 19, 200812 p.m. 1:30 p.m.WHERE: 5 Point Credit Union4401 Highway 73Port Arthur, TX 77642The companies listed will be on hand to answer questions on how to obtain contracts on current and future Jefferson County expansion projects:Port Arthur Chamber of CommerceBeaumont Chamber of Commerce Golden Triangle Minority Business CouncilEastman Golden Pass LNGMotivaSempraTotalValero
01.08.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement today in regards to the State and Justice Departments failure to respond accordingly to the repeated inquires he and other Members of Congress have made regarding the investigation of the sexual assault allegations made by Jaime Leigh Jones while working as a contract employee in Iraq. Who is in charge here, asks Poe. The time has long past for excuses and finger-pointing. With a $400 billion budget, you would think that the Defense Department would have the resources to protect Americans overseas and maybe even have a little left over to investigate allegations of criminal activity as well. This is not a case of ignore it and it will go away. The American people deserve better and Jaime Leigh Jones deserves justice. This type of blatant disregard for responsibility by our government is unacceptable.Congressman Poe has made numerous inquires into the investigation of the allegations made by Ms. Jones: December 10, 2007: Congressman Poe requests information from US Attorney General Michael Mukasey regarding the status of the investigation. oStatus: No Response. December 10, 2007: Separate requests for information pertaining to the investigation of the Jones case were made to the US Department of State: Jenny Foo, Department of Overseas Citizens Services; Lynn Falanga Special Agent with Diplomatic Security. o Status: No Response from either request. December 11, 2007: Congressman Poe and Judiciary Chairman John Conyers request information from Attorney General Mukasey. o Status: Response sent to Chairman Conyers and Congressman Poe was inadequate and uninformative; declined to testify before the House Judiciary Committee. January 3, 2008: Congressman Poe requests the assistance of Secretary Condoleezza Rice in determining the status of the investigation and the lack of cooperation from State Department officials. o Status: Response Pending. Ms. Jones, a former constituent of the 2nd Congressional District, alleges she was drugged, sexually assaulted and held against her will while working for a US contractor in the Green Zone in Iraq two years ago. Congressman Poe became involved in Jones case when he was contacted by Jones father to facilitate her evacuation from Iraq. More information on the efforts made by Congressman Poe on behalf of Ms. Jones can be found on our website, http://poe.house.gov/.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims and children. ###
01.02.2008	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his staff will hold open office hours throughoutthe districtin January. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District. JANUARY DATES AND LOCATIONS: Thursday, January 3, 200810am -11am Spring Barbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood DriveSpring, Texas 77379Wednesday, January 9, 2008 1pm 3 pmGroves Public Library5600 W. WashingtonGroves, TX 77619Thursday, January 10, 20089am - 10amBaytown Chamber Office (Amegy Bank Tower)1300RollingbrookBaytown, Texas 77520Wednesday, January 16, 2008 1 pm 3 pmPort Arthur Public Library4615 9th AvenuePort Arthur, TX 77640Thursday, January 17, 20089am - 10am Dayton Chamber Office212 Bryan StDayton, TX 77535Thursday, January 17, 200811am - noonCleveland City Hall907 E. HoustonCleveland, TX 77327Wednesday, January 23, 20081 pm 3 pmMarion & Ed Hughes Public Library2712 Nederland AvenueNederland, TX 77627Wednesday, January 30, 2008 1 pm 3pmElmo Willard Branch Library3590 E. LucasBeaumont, TX 77708
12.19.2007	Congressman Poe offered the following statement before the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security of the House Committee on the Judiciarys hearing on "Enforcement of Federal Criminal Law to Protect Americans Working for U.S. Contractors in Iraq." Good morning, Mr. Chairman, Members of the subcommittee. Thank you for quickly organizing and holding this important hearing. I am here this morning to introduce a brave young woman, Jamie Leigh Jones. She will tell you about her horrific experiences in Iraq as an American civilian contractor, who was drugged and gang-raped by her American civilian coworkers. What Jamie will tell you paints a picture of lawlessness--where criminals go unpunished and victims are vilified. For American civilian contractors, Iraq is reminiscent of the Old Western days and no one seems to be in charge. The law must intervene, round up these outlaws, and restore order. I became involved in this case when Jamies dad called my office in Texas because I represent Jamie and her dad in Congress. He relayed Jamies account of her assault and being held hostage in a shipping container and asked for immediate assistance. My staff and I contacted the United States Department of States Department of Overseas Citizens Services. Within 48 hours, the State Department dispatched two agents from the US Embassy in Baghdad, rescued Jamie, and brought her back home. It is my understanding that an Assistant US Attorney interviewed Jamie and that a State Department Special Agent investigated her case. However, the Department of Justice has not informed Jamie or me of the status of a criminal investigation against her rapists. It is interesting to note that the Department of Justice has thousands of lawyers, but not one from the barrage of attorneys is here to tell us what, if anything, they are doing. Their absence and silence speaks volumes about the hidden crimes of Iraq. Jamie turned to another government agency in January 2006. She filed a formal complaint with the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission against KBR for sexual harassment. In May 2006, the EEOC issued a Letter of Determination that was favorable to Jamie. The EEOC determined that Jamie was sexually assaulted by one or more KBR employees, that physical trauma was apparent, and that KBRs own investigation was inadequate and did not effect an adequate remedy. Two and a half years after her assault, Jamie does not have justice. Jamie decided to go public with her case because she wasnt getting answers from our government. It seems our government agencies have failed her. While the criminal justice system has certainly failed Jamie, in the United States, the civil court system may be of no help either in holding wrongdoers civilly liable for the injuries they have inflicted on victims. The inclusion of a binding arbitration clause in Jamies employment contract may preclude her from accessing a judge or jury to hear her civil case. She may be forced into arbitration, a privatized justice system with no public record, no discovery, and no meaningful appeal. Jamie needs and deserves justice. As a former judge, I have always thought that the best way to solve disputes was in a courtroom with a jury.Since Jamie has gone public with her experience, my office has heard from 3 other women. Of course, my office will furnish the names of these women to the Judiciary Committee if needed. One of the three women is Tracy Barker. Tracy is also a former KBR employee, who says that she was sexually assaulted in Iraq by a State Department employee who still works at the State Department today. The 2 other women are also former KBR employees. They both report sexual assaults and sexual harassment by their coworkers in Iraq and neither woman has seen any federal law enforcement action. One of the women informed my office that she was molested several times and raped once by her KBR coworkers. When she reported the crime to her immediate supervisor, she was told that they would take care of it. She returned to work two days later and found her rapist working alongside of her. She panicked and called Army MPs, who escorted the rapist off of the base. However, she was subsequently fired. It seems that, unfortunately, Jamies case is not unique. Our government has a responsibility to protect American civilians overseas. These contractors work in support of an American military mission. Those who work in Iraq in support of the American military have a right to the same protections that we bestow on our citizens here in America. We need a new sheriff in Iraq to enforce our federal laws. The individual rapists must be prosecuted. Americans cannot go abroad and commit attacks on fellow Americans without the long arm of the law holding them accountable. The individuals who assaulted Jamie must be rounded up and tried. Nonfeasance by civilian contracting companies cannot be tolerated. Victims must get the justice that they deserve because justice is what we do in America. And thats just the way it is.
12.18.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that the House Judiciary Committee will hold Congressional Hearings into the sexual assault allegations of former KBR employee Jamie Leigh Jones against several of her coworkers in Iraq. The Hearing on "Enforcement of Federal Criminal Law to Protect Americans Working for U.S. Contractors in Iraq" is set for Wednesday, December 19, 2007 at 10:15am EST in room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building.Congressman Poe sent numerous letters this week to State and Justice Department officials and joined Judiciary Chairman, Congressman John Conyers, in a letter to the Attorney General demanding immediate answers in the status of this investigation.Jamie Leigh Jones has bravely decided to waive her rights to privacy and come forward with her story of a brutal sexual assault that she endured while working in Iraq, said Poe. In 2005, I was contacted by Jaimes father to facilitate her return from Iraq after she called him for help. Two years later we are still looking for answers as to why this case has not been investigated. Through Jamies decision to go public with her story, we now have the ability to demand answers in a public forum. I applaud Chairman Conyers for his swift action and bringing this case before the Judiciary Committee. I will continue to work with my colleagues to see that her rights as an American citizen and a victim are upheld.Congressman Poe was instrumental in facilitating the return of Jamie after receiving a call from her father in July 2005. Congressman Poe contacted the State Departments Department of Overseas Citizen Services, which then dispatched agents from the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad to rescue Jamie. On July 21, 2005, Jamie Leigh Jones was sent to Iraq as a Kellogg Brown and Root (KBR) contractor. Within four days of being stationed in Baghdad, Jamie says that she was drugged and brutally raped by several of her coworkers, who were stationed there as KBR firefighters. After informing her superiors, Army doctors performed a forensic sexual assault examination on Jamie. According to Jamie, KBR held her in a shipping container under armed guard without food or water for more than twenty-four hours. A sympathetic guard lent Jamie his cell phone and she was able to contact her father for help. Congressman Poe is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. As a former criminal court judge and prosecutor for over 30 years in Houston, Texas, Poe is recognized nationally for his creative sentencing of criminals and as a dedicated advocate for victims and children. ###
12.03.2007	Congressman Poe issued the following statement regarding today's hearing in the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans, LA:Today, before the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals, the US Attorney's Office admitted that their star witness in the case against Border Agents Ramos and Compean, 'told some lies'. The rest of us call that perjury. The fact that the prosecution knowingly allowed their witness to offer false testimony raises even more red flags about the overzealous prosecution of this case. For months now, our government has been trying to side-step the fact they sided with an illegal drug smuggler who smuggled drugs into our country multiple times and misled the jury of his credibility and continued illegal conduct. The facts of the case were presented today in an open court, minus the slick Madison Avenue spin of the US Attorneys Office, and once again the evidence shows the US Government was on the wrong side of the law. Justice is the only thing we should ever find and I hope that we can finally give these two men and their families the justice they deserve.
11.29.2007	As the Representative for Texas Second Congressional District, I invite you to join my email newsletter network to stay informed on my work in Congress and in the district.I am contacted regularly by constituents who are interested in knowing more about whats going on in Washington, DC and at home in the district. My email newsletters cover a variety of topics including border security, homeland security, important Congressional votes, legislative work, and news on upcoming district events and workshops.
11.20.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was recently named to the Advisory Board of the Justice for Children child advocacy organization based in Houston, Texas.I am honored to serve an organization that is dedicated to protecting our greatest resource, our children, said Poe. As a lifelong victims advocate, the first thing I did after being elected to Congress was establish the Victims Rights Caucus to advocate in our nations capitol of behalf of all victims, especially those without a voice. I look forward to the day that organizations such as Justice for Children are not needed. But, the sad reality is they are desperately needed and I commend them for their dedication and service to our community and above all else to our children. Justice for Children is a national child advocacy organization with headquarters in Houston, Texas. It was founded in 1987 by Randy Burton, a former Chief Prosecutor of the Family Offenses Section of the Harris County District Attorney's office, and a group of concerned citizens within the community in response to the inadequacies and failure of child protective system to protect abused and neglected children. The purpose of Justice for Children is to provide a full range of advocacy and services for abused and neglected children; that includes legal advocacy, public policy monitoring, guidance through a complex child protective system, professional referrals, mental health services, court watch, research, education, and emotional support. For more information on Justice for Children, please visit their website: www.justiceforchildren.org/ Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and life-long advocate for children, victims and law enforcement. In addition, Poe serves on the Board of Directors for the National Childrens Alliance in Washington, DC and the Childrens Assessment Center in Houston, Texas. ###
11.14.2007	The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced that farm operators that sustained losses caused by Hurricane Humberto are eligible for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Service Agency (FSA). The USDA has reviewed the Damage Assessment Report for Jefferson County, along with additional information submitted by the Farm Service Agency (FSA), and has determined that there were sufficient production losses to warrant a Secretarial natural disaster designation. Jefferson County has been named a primary natural disaster area and Liberty County named a contiguous disaster county.Hurricane Humberto caught most of the folks in Southeast Texas unprepared, said Poe. While a majority of our area was spared from any significant damage, our farmers did sustain loses from this unpredicted hurricane. This announcement comes as good news to the many farmers in both Jefferson and Liberty counties still recovering from Hurricane Rita.This designation makes farm operators in both primary and contiguous counties eligible to be considered for low-interest emergency loans from FSA, provided eligibility requirements are met. FSA will consider each application on its own merit by taking into account the extent of losses, security available, and repayment ability. Chambers, Hardin, and Orange were also named contiguous disaster counties by the USDA. Local FSA offices can provide affected farmers with further information.
11.01.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison met with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Robert Sturgell today to discuss aviation issues affecting the 2nd Congressional District. The purpose of this meeting was to discuss the Southeast Texas Regional Airport Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) consolidation and noise pollution in the area surrounding Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH).Today, Senator Hutchison and I met with the FAA to personally discuss the aviation issues concerning the folks of Southeast Texas, said Poe. I appreciate Senator Hutchisons continued support on these issues and consider her influence and input invaluable. This meeting was an opportunity for us to sit down face-to-face with the new head of the FAA to communicate to them the concerns over the TRACON consolidation and the imperative need for noise reduction. I feel that the meeting went very well and Senator Hutchison and I were able to convey our strong opinions on these issues and stress the need for cooperation between the FAA and the community stakeholders. We were given every indication that the FAA intends to work towards an amicable solution to these problems.The FAA will be meeting next week to discuss the issues of noise abatement at various airports, including Bush IAH. Congressman Poe encouraged the FAA to keep the community stakeholders involved in plans as they implement changes suggested for noise abatement and TRACON consolidations. Congressman Poe recently sponsored a Town Hall meeting in Port Arthur regarding the consolidation and suggested that follow-up informational meetings continue in the area to keep residents informed. In September, the FAA announced they would suspend the consolidation temporarily. While the consolidation is on hold at this time, the FAA has not announced a final decision on their consolidation plans. Poe serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Aviation Subcommittee. ###
10.30.2007	To watch the story, click here. Or cut and paste the following link: http://www.click2houston.com/investigates/14450151/detail.htmlLocal 2 Uncovers Personal Information Sent From Houston To MexicoHOUSTON -- Note: The following story is a verbatim transcript of an Investigates story that aired on Monday, Oct. 29, 2007, on KPRC Local 2 at 10 p.m.Tonight Local 2 Investigates the security of your personal information. We all work hard to make sure our financial identity doesn't fall into the wrong hands. What you may not know is some of the companies you trust with this sensitive information may be sending it to foreign countries.It's called outsourcing and KPRC Local 2 investigative reporter Robert Arnold joins us with the results of his hidden camera investigation into what one of the countrys largest banking institutions is doing with your personal data. If you've gotten a loan, you know what type of information is in that file: bank account numbers, Social Security numbers, copies of your driver's license. If the loan is big enough, there's also copies of your tax returns. Our investigation begins with one question: Why is Washington Mutual sending all of this personal information to Mexico?It's just before 11 a.m. in Juarez, Mexico, and you're watching thousands of files loaded with confidential, personal information from Houston being delivered to a warehouse. Your information could be part of this shipment and you'd never know it.Before we tell you exactly what these files are, we need to show you were the files came from.This is Washington Mutual's Consumer Loan records center in northwest Houston. Longtime Washington Mutual employees, who asked not to be identified, tell us more than 1 million consumer loan files from around the country were stored in this secure warehouse."You had peoples' lives in your hands or access to them," an employee who worked in the Washington Mutual warehouse said.But earlier this year Washington Mutual decided to shut down the Houston facility, lay off the employees and ship all the files out. Employees who worked inside this warehouse contacted Local 2 Investigates when they say they became concerned the initial shipments left the warehouse without proper tracking."We had several occasions where we knew things had left the building, but they weren't being accounted for on the other end," this confidential source told Local 2.The other end is Juarez, Mexico."You started calling Mexico saying, 'Hey, we need file x-y-z' and Mexico would say what?" Arnold asked."We don't have it," our source said.In May, Local 2 followed one of the trucks as it left Washington Mutual's Houston warehouse and headed west on I-10. We followed that truck through the night to the next morning, hundreds of miles until it arrived in El Paso. A driver from Mexico then picked up the load and we followed him across the border and through the streets of Juarez.More than 16 hours after leaving Houston, the documents from Washington Mutual loaded with all that sensitive, personal information, finally made it here to the heart of Juarez's "industrial district."The files were delivered to a warehouse owned by Dallas-based Affiliated Computer Services, incorporated, or ACS. Our sources say this was part of an outsourcing contract to have all the loan files imaged into a computer data bank then destroyed. Once all the files were shipped Washington Mutual closed its Houston warehouse on July 27."When you start outsourcing jobs, that's one thing. When you start outsourcing personal information to another country that makes it even worse," Houston Congressman Ted Poe said. "If I were a consumer and they told me that they were shipping all my loan documents to Mexico I would be a former customer."But we've learned where the files are being sent may not be the biggest concern."On the day the facility was shut down and empty, could Washington Mutual account for every single loan file that was sent to Mexico?" Arnold asked."No," our source answered.Our sources say Washington Mutual lost track of more than 100,000 loan files. Files our sources said were still missing the day the Houston warehouse was shut down.Poe has concerns about the whole process."Somebody else has access to that besides the people that ought to be looking at it," Poe said. "That's very disturbing."Washington Mutual would not answer Local 2's question as to whether it tracked down all the files. Instead we received this written statement:"For many years WaMu has worked with vendors based in the U.S. who perform some services in other countries. We don't publicly discuss details of our confidential vendor relationships. The protection of customer information is a top priority for WaMu and our dedicated internal Quality Control organization implements ongoing evaluations of our vendor relationships to ensure that controls are being implemented, both in the transportation of customer information and the management of the information," wrote Missy Latham, Washington Mutual vice president and manager, Southwest Bureau National Public Relations.We also had questions about how closely guarded your personal information is in Mexico. We'll show you what our hidden cameras spotted and the response from the company handling all that sensitive information. That's tomorrow morning at 6:50.Then tomorrow night at 10, we'll show you why you may never know when your personal data is sent to a foreign country.
10.22.2007	NO PLACE LIKE HOME: ROCKSPRINGS, TEXAS Mr. Speaker, in the vastness of west Texas, the sky is a brilliant brazen blue and a place where sparse live oak trees fight to even exist. In the stillness of these arid plains is the remote south Texas town of Rocksprings. The people of this community of only 1,250 had a homecoming Saturday for their favorite son, Deputy Gilmer Hernandez. I was honored to be there. The ceremony, ironically, took place on the courthouse square under the pecan trees and in front of the old limestone courthouse. Ironic because, you see, Mr. Speaker, the town was celebrating the release of Gilmer Hernandez from the Federal penitentiary. He had been sent to prison for, as local sheriff, Donnie Letsinger put it "just doing his job for the rest of us." The sheriff spoke the sentiments of most of the townspeople that I got to talk to. The town was decorated with signs and flags and banners in windows of houses and in front of stores. Anyway, the ceremony started off with a lengthy prayer by the local Baptist preacher, and then there was a rousing pledge to the flag. There were tears and speeches by politicians. The mayor, Rachel Gallegos, presented Deputy Hernandez a proclamation from the city as Rocksprings' Favorite Son. Most of the community turned out, many carrying signs of "Welcome Home, Gilmer." Gilmer's family was there, his wife, Ashley; and his wonderful young daughter. When Gilmer was shipped off to Federal prison, the people of this small town rallied around his family. The town paid the rent on his pickup truck, took his family into their homes, provided food, and took care of his mortgage on his house. They sent him letters while he was incarcerated; they prayed for him; and when he got home, he already had a job with the city and the local phone company. Mr. Speaker, this is an interesting celebration considering Gilmer was a convicted felon. Gilmer Hernandez grew up in Rocksprings. His family is from there. He became a deputy sheriff for Edwards County. He always dreamed of being a lawman, even though he made a little bit over just $20,000 a year patrolling a county the size of Delaware. Here's what happened sometime ago: while this young deputy was on routine patrol late at night, he came in contact with an SUV that ran the red light in Rocksprings, Texas. He pulled the vehicle over; and as he approached it, the truck sped off and swerved to run over the deputy. Gilmer pulled his weapon and shot out two tires in self-defense. The vehicle stopped, and numerous illegals, including the coyote smuggling the illegals into America, took off running. But one of Gilmer's bullets ricocheted in the SUV and hit a passenger as Gilmer fired at the fleeing vehicle. This was the first time Gilmer Hernandez had ever fired his pistol. The sheriff and the Texas Rangers investigated the incident; and after investigating it thoroughly, they cleared Hernandez. But upon the assistance of the arrogant Mexican Government one year after the incident, our almighty Federal Government prosecuted Gilmer for a civil rights violation, saying he should not have continued firing at the vehicle after it drove past him. So Gilmer Hernandez was sent off to prison at the behest of Mexico with the United States being the puppet. By the way, all of the illegals got to stay in the United States. Many of the townspeople told me Saturday they thought Gilmer was right to defend himself. One old crusty Texas rancher called Gilmer a political prisoner.I and others of this House have asked the President to pardon Gilmer Hernandez, and we hope eventually the President does pardon him. He has, after all, served his time. But Saturday, as the magnificent sun began to set, the town of Rocksprings came out to cheer and honor and praise and totally support its favorite native son. After all the hoopla, the town went down the road to the fairgrounds for barbecue and homemade desserts. And, by the way, the sheriff gave Gilmer back his badge, hoping some day he will be able to wear it again. Deputy Gilmer Hernandez is a remarkable person, and the town of Rocksprings is a uniquely remarkable place to be from. And that's just the way it is.
10.18.2007	Mr. Speaker, "I will do my duty to God and my country." This is part of the Boy Scout oath. When a Boy Scout becomes an Eagle Scout, some Members of Congress have an official flag flown over the Capitol and these words are requested to be in the official certificate which is given to the Scout, along with the flag.But the Architect of the Capitol, who is in charge of such matters, censors the word "God" in these certificates and only puts the word "country" in them. The word "God," according to the Architect, violates his rules against religious references. The Architect is the caretaker of the Capitol. We have numerous references to God in these hallowed Halls. Our history is based upon a belief in God, whether the Architect likes it or not. Maybe the Architect hasn't even seen the phrase "In God We Trust" above the flag here in the House of Representatives. What's next? Is he going to sneak over here in the darkness of the night and chisel off the word "God" because he doesn't want that word "God" in the Capitol? The first amendment right to express religious freedoms is being violated by the censor of the Capitol. And that's just the way it is.
10.09.2007	Rep. Poe to Represent Congress in the UN General AssemblyCongressman Poe One of Only Two Members Appointed by President Bush WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) has been appointed by President George W. Bush to represent the United States Congress in the 62nd General Assembly of the United Nations. Congressman Poe is one of only two Members of Congress selected to observe this years Assembly.I am honored to be selected to represent Congress at the General Assembly of the United Nations, said Poe. Many Americans have concerns over the direction and actions of the UN and as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee I look forward to being a representative of this Congress and the American people.As the Congressional Representative, Congressman Poe will be responsible for the United States' positions in the General Assembly on issues of international security, economincs and governance.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade; and Subcommittee on Europe. ###
10.02.2007	The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has placed the San Jacinto River Waste Pits on a shortlist of potential Superfund sites. The waste pits, located near the I-10 bridge over the San Jacinto River, are contaminated with polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, commonly called dioxins, and polychlorinated dibenzofurans, commonly called furans. Wildlife in the area, including fish, has become contaminated with the pollutants, which can cause cancer and other health problems in humans. Despite posted warnings, some area residents continue to use contaminated parts of the river as a food source.This is a major step toward really getting the river cleaned up, Rep. Gene Green (D-Texas) said. Ive been working with the EPA and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) to get to this point when the source of the dioxin was discovered.The pollution emanates from paper mill waste pits used in the 1960s and1970s and now abandoned. Scientists knew for many years that pollution levels in the San Jacinto River were high, but they didnt know why until recently when they discovered the pits.In March 2007, Rep. Gene Green and Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) asked the EPA to designate the waste pits a Superfund site, and in July the State of Texas added its name to the request.The San Jacinto River has been a part life for folks in that area long before the Texas Revolution, Poe said. Cleaning it up for future generations must take a top priority. I am very pleased that the EPA has recognized the need to do so and I will continue to work closely with Congressman Green to see that we do everything possible to get the federal assistance needed to clean it up. The Superfund designation would normally provide federal money to help clean up pollutants if the responsible parties arent found or are insolvent. However, because appropriations for Superfund projects have dwindled in recent years, a special request in order to fund a cleanup of the site.For more information, see the San Jacinto River Waste Pits entry on the EPAs web site: http://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/npl/nar1773.htm. ###
10.01.2007	DISTRICT OFFICE HOLDS OPEN OFFICE HOURS Jefferson County Congressional Staff Brings the Office to You!BEAUMONT, TEXAS Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his Jefferson County District office will hold open office hours throughout Jefferson County in October. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.OCTOBER DATES AND LOCATIONS: Thursday, October 4, 2007 11am 1 pmPort Neches Public Library2025 MerrimanPort Neches, TX 77651Wednesday, August 10, 2007 11am 1pmCalvary Baptist Church Nutrition Program for Seniors2208 Canal StreetPort Acres, TX 77640Wednesday, August 17, 2007 11am 1pmGroves Senior Citizens Center5649 WashingtonGroves, TX 77619Wednesday, August 24, 2007 11am 1pmBeaumont Public Library801 PearlBeaumont, TX 77701Wednesday, October 31, 2007 11am 1 pmNederland Public Library2712 Nederland AvenueNederland, TX 77627
09.28.2007	SERVICE ACADEMY DAYIntroduction to US Service Academies and the Appointment ProcessHUMBLE, TX The Office of Congressman Ted Poe will be hosting an informational program for high school students in the 2nd Congressional District to learn more about the United States Service Academies and the application process. Representatives from each of the Academies will be present to talk to students and their parents as well as answer questions. The Service Academy Coordinator for Congressman Poe will also explain the application process, criteria and important upcoming deadlines.The Service Academy Day will be centrally located in Baytown and is open to the residents of the 2nd Congressional District.For additional information regarding the application process, pleaseclickthe "services" tab at the top of our website.WHEN: Saturday, September 29, 200710am WHERE:Lee College BaytownTucker Hall200 Lee Drive Baytown, Texas 77520MAP: http://www.lee.edu/maps.asp###
09.26.2007	Daughters of Penelope Applauds House Passage of DV Resolution
09.26.2007	Reps. Costa And Poe Hail Passage of H. Res. 590 To Recognize National Domestic Violence MonthWASHINGTON, D.C. - Last night, the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 590, by a vote of 395 to 0. This resolution, co-authored by Congressman Jim Costa (D-Fresno), supports the goals and ideals of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, which takes place each October."Victims of domestic violence are our brothers, sisters, mothers, fathers, and friends," said Costa. "We need to bring the scourge of domestic violence to the forefront of our communities in hope that educating people about the evils of domestic violence will one day end this awful crime. I am proud to have co-authored this bill, and will continue to work for all victims of crime.""Love never comes with black eyes, bruises and battery," said Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). "America must be concerned about what takes place in our families and the effects of domestic violence on everyone involved. While one-in-four women are victims of domestic violence in their lifetime, they are not alone - men and children are victims as well. This is a problem that goes far beyond the relationships of two people. As a lifelong advocate for victims, it is important that we as a country recognize the devastating effects of domestic violence and do everything in our power to put an end to the nightmare."Costa is a co-chairman of the bipartisan Victims Rights Caucus in the House of Representatives with Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). The goals of the caucus are to represent crime victims in the United States through legislation, to provide an ongoing forum for pro-active discussion between Congress and national victim assistance organizations, and to seep opportunities for public education initiatives to help people in the United States to understand the impact of crime on victims.
09.19.2007	POE AND LAMPSON FILE JOINT AMENDMENT LIMITING AIRLINE TICKET TAXAmendment Strikes Passenger Facility Charge Tax IncreaseWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces that he will join Congressman Nick Lampson (TX-22) in cosponsoring an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2007 that will strike a proposed increase to the Passenger Facility Charge (PFC), a fee tacked on to airline tickets by airports to pay for capital improvements."Airports get $13 billion a year from bonds, FAA grants, and state and local aid," said Congressman Ted Poe. "Passengers do not need to give any more money in taxes to airports in order to fly."As the bill stands now, the maximum Passenger Facility Charge (PFC) would be increased by 55.6% - from $4.50 to $7.00 per passenger. The Lampson-Poe amendment will hold the current tax rate to $4.50 per passenger.Congressman Poe also filed an amendment to the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2007 to extend drug and alcohol testing to maintenance workers performing repairs on U.S. air carriers at foreign aircraft repair stations.Under current rules, individual mechanics at domestic repair stations are subject to drug and alcohol testing as a condition of working on U.S. aircraft, but the FAA has refused to extend this most basic requirement to work done by mechanics at foreign stations working on U.S. aircraft. The Poe Amendment would reverse this double-standard and bring one level of safety to aircraft repair stations servicing U.S. aircraft. It makes no sense to require U.S. mechanics, as safety-sensitive employees, to undergo various levels of drug and alcohol testing, if workers doing the exact same work on the exact same aircraft are exempt from this requirement simply because the station is located in another country, said Poe.Congressman Poe serves on the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Subcommittee on Aviation. ###
09.18.2007	Poe Announces FAA to Suspend Consolidation of Southeast Texas Regional AirportPostpones TRACON merger with Houston Intercontinental Airport WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today the FAA informed his office they will suspend consolidation of Southeast Texas Regional Airports Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facilities with those of Houstons George Bush Intercontinental Airport.I am glad the FAA listened to our concerns and decided to postpone phase 1 of the consolidation, which would have moved Beaumonts airspace to Houston Intercontinental Airport on the midnight shift September 27th, said Poe. My office and the citizens of Jefferson County have repeatedly asked them to step back and reassess this issue. I thank all the citizens of Jefferson County who came out to the public meeting in Port Arthur last month and showed the FAA we support our airport.Dean Hall of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association also welcomes the decision, NATCA applauds the FAA's decision to acknowledge stakeholders' immediate concerns by placing the transfer of Beaumont's Airspace to Houston TRACON on hold. We commend Congressman Poe for facilitating this decision. Many issues, including a shortage of air traffic controllers, remain unresolved, and we urge the FAA to work closely with air traffic controllers, pilots, aviation officials, community leaders and elected officials as they move forward in considering the transfer of Beaumont's airspace."Also this week, the House of Representatives will consider the FAA Reauthorization Bill. If the FAA Reauthorization Bill passes, the FAA would be under new requirements to create an evaluation process for all future consolidations that could require inclusion of stakeholder comments before any consolidation could occur.During the past 20 years, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has consolidated TRACON facilities in New York, Southern California, Chicago, Denver, Dallas-Fort Worth, Northern California, Atlanta, and the Baltimore/Washington area. The FAA announced earlier this year that efforts were underway to address constraints being encountered with existing airspace configurations and airspace demand for the entire Gulf Coast region. They planned a new airspace configuration for the Houston TRACON extending the boundaries and encompassing the Southeast Texas Airport TRACON facilities. Congressman Poe will continue working with community stakeholders to hold the FAA accountable for any steps toward consolidation concerning Southeast Texas Regional Airport. Congressman Poe serves on the Aviation Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ###
09.13.2007	Beaumont, TexasThe Texas Emergency Management Operations Center today announced ice, water and first aid supply distribution sites for Jefferson County:Distribution Sites:- Groves 6150 Short Street- Port Arthur 200 Gilliam Circle- Port Arthur 5700 S. Gulfway- Labelle and Fannett Fire Departments- Port Neches 633 Grigsby- Lamar UniversityBeaumont- Sabine Pass Highway 87Shelters:Port ArthurEdison Middle School, 3501 12th St., Port ArthurBeaumontPruitt Center 2930 Gulf St, Beaumont and Salvation Army 2350 I-10 East, Beaumont###
09.13.2007	SCHOOL CLOSURES:The following institutions are closed Thursday:CLOSURESHamshire Fannett ISD Orangefield ISD BunaBridge City ISD LCM ISD Nederland ISDPNG ISDEagle Acadamy in BeaumontAll Saints in BeaumontDeweyville ISDVidor Independent School DistrictBeaumont Independent School DistrictErhart SchoolWest Orange Cove Independent School DistrictPort Arthur Independent School DistrictsBeaumont Catholic SchoolsLamar University Lamar State College Port ArthurLamar-Orange LIT. West Hardin ISD High Island ISD Hardin I.S.D Sabine Pass Cameron Parish School DistrictLamar State College Port Arthur From the KBMT Channel 12 website:CLOSINGS AND DELAYS----COUNTY COURTHOUSES IN BEAUMONT AND PORT ARTHUR ARE CLOSED.CITY OF BEAUMONT PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT CLOSED.BEAUMONT CITY HALL CLOSED, ALL NON-ESSENTIAL CITY EMPLOYEES ARE URGED TO STAY HOME TODAY.ALL NON-ESSENTIAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF BEAUMONT POLICE DEPARTMENT ARE URGED TO STAY HOME TODAY.ALL TEXAS WORKFORCE CENTERS OPENING AT NOON.NO CLASSES FOR THE FOLLOWING: EAST CHAMBERS ISD, BUNA ISD, HAMSHIRE-FANNETT, PORT NECHES-GROVES ISD, HARMONY SCIENCE ACADEMY BEAUMONT, EVADALE ISD, ORANGEFIELD ISD, VIDOR ISD, BRIDGE CITY ISD, NEDERLAND ISD, BEAUMONT ISD, CATHEDRAL CHRISTIAN SCHOOL BEAUMONT, COMMUNITY CHRISTIAN IN ORANGE, ROY GUESS ELEMENTARY, LAMAR UNIVERSITY, L-I-T, TEXAS CAREERS COLLEGE BEAUMONT, LITTLE CYPRESS MAURICEVILLE CLOSED, LAMAR-PORT ARTHUR, LAMAR ORANGE, ABUNDANT LIFE CHRISTIAN SCHOOL IN KOUNTZE, DEWEYVILLE ISD, DAYTON ISD, LIBERTY ISD, PORT ARTHUR ISD, SABINE PASS ISD, WEST ORANGE COVE ISD, LIVING WATER CHRISTIAN ACADAMY, LUMBERTON ISD TWO HOURS LATE FOR STUDENTS, ONE HOUR LATE FOR STAFF. HARDIN JEFFERSON ISD OPENS AT 10AM. CENTRAL DAYCARE CENTER BEAUMONT CLOSED. LEGACY CHRISTIAN ACADEMY BEAUMONT CLOSED. AROUND THE CLOCK DAYCARE IN NEDERLAND CLOSED. KIDDIE RANCH DAYCARE ORANGE CLOSED. ORANGE CHILD ENRICHMENT CENTER CLOSED. SPINDLETOP MHMR OPENS AT TEN.Story Created: Sep 13, 2007 at 4:52 AM CDT Story Updated: Sep 13, 2007 at 8:35 AM CDT
09.13.2007	Tropical Storm Humberto Update...HUMBERTO WEAKENS TO A TROPICAL STORM OVER SOUTHWESTERNLOUISIANA...AT 1000 AM CDT...1500 UTC...ALL COASTAL HURRICANE AND TROPICAL STORM WARNINGS ARE DISCONTINUED. HOWEVER...DAMAGING WINDS ARE STILL OCCURRING INLAND NEAR THE CENTER OF HUMBERTO. FOR STORM INFORMATION SPECIFIC TO YOUR AREA...INCLUDING INLAND WATCHES AND WARNINGS...PLEASE MONITOR PRODUCTS ISSUED BY YOUR LOCAL WEATHER OFFICE.AT 1000 AM CDT...1500Z...THE CENTER OF TROPICAL STORM HUMBERTO WAS LOCATED NEAR LATITUDE 30.6 NORTH...LONGITUDE 93.2 WEST OR ABOUT 75 MILES...125 KM...WEST-NORTHWEST OF LAFAYETTE LOUISIANA.HUMBERTO IS MOVING TOWARD THE NORTHEAST NEAR 12 MPH...19 KM/HR...AND THIS MOTION IS EXPECTED TO CONTINUE FOR THE NEXT 24 HOURS.MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS ARE NEAR 65 MPH...100 KM/HR...WITH HIGHER GUSTS. ADDITIONAL WEAKENING IS EXPECTED TODAY...AND HUMBERTO SHOULD BECOME A TROPICAL DEPRESSION BY EARLY FRIDAY.TROPICAL STORM FORCE WINDS EXTEND OUTWARD UP TO 35 MILES...55 KM FROM THE CENTER.ESTIMATED MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE IS 990 MB...29.23 INCHES.RAINFALL AMOUNTS OF 4 TO 8 INCHES ARE EXPECTED ACROSS MUCH OFLOUISIANA AND MISSISSIPPI...AS WELL AS EXTREME SOUTHEASTERNARKANSAS...WITH ISOLATED MAXIMUM AMOUNTS OF 12 INCHES POSSIBLE.SOME COASTAL FLOODING IS POSSIBLE FROM CAMERON LOUISIANA TOVERMILLION BAY TODAY.ISOLATED TORNADOES ARE POSSIBLE IN SOUTHEASTERN LOUISIANA ANDSOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI THROUGH TONIGHT.REPEATING THE 1000 AM CDT POSITION...30.6 N...93.2 W. MOVEMENTTOWARD...NORTHEAST NEAR 12 MPH. MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...65 MPH. MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...990 MB.
09.13.2007	NEWS RELEASE FROM TXDOT: Interstate 10 is open throughout Southeast Texas JEFFERSON COUNTY Many signals non-operational in Port Arthur area. SH 87: Down to one lane just north of Sabine Pass due to downed power poles SH 82: Water over roadway but passable on Pleasure Island toward Louisiana ORANGE COUNTY Many signals non-operational in Orange Area. FM 1006: Closed @ FM 2177 IH-10: Frontage Road @ Adams Bayou & IH 10 closed due to High Water FM 105 at Tram Road No other lane closures reported at this time in Newton, Chambers, Liberty, Hardin, Jasper, or Tyler Counties. We'll keep you updated throughout the day with any additional closures
09.13.2007	OFFICE OF THE GOVERNORR i c k P e r r yFor ImmediateDistribution September 13, 2007News Release Gov. Perry Declares Three Texas Counties Disaster AreasState Resources Deployed to RegionAUSTIN Gov. Rick Perry today declared three southeast Texas counties disaster areas as a result of Hurricane Humberto. Humberto, which developed from a tropical depression into a Category 1 hurricane in just over 12 hours, made landfall early this morning, producing heavy rains and high winds in Jefferson, Orange and Galveston Counties. "Texans in Jefferson, Orange and Galveston Counties can rest assured that we have deployed the necessary resources to help them recover from the devastation resulting from this storm," Perry said. "We are working closely with local officials to restore power to the region and to ensure everyones safety. I urge all Texans to heed the warnings of their local leaders and take all possible precautions to stay out of dangerous situations." Numerous areas in these counties are without power. State and local officials are focusing on restoring power to these regions. Power generators, trucks of water and ice are en route to the effected areas. In advance of the storm, Perry ordered the activation and pre-positioning of 50 high profile vehicles and 200 Texas Military Forces (TMF) soldiers. To assist with potential search and rescue operations, Perry activated six TMF Blackhawk helicopters and two Texas Task Force 1 swift water rescue teams. Additional search and rescue capabilities include 60 Texas Parks and Wildlife Department boats and 120 personnel; five General Land Office boats and crew; and the Texas Forest Service Lonestar Incident Management Team to provide logistical support. Perry also requested and received approval for additional aviation assets if needed from the U.S. Coast Guard. All state resources are ready for rapid deployment. Voluntary organizations are also prepared to provide mass care support for residents if needed. The State Operations Center was fully activated yesterday in anticipation of the storm and is conducting twice daily conference calls with the National Weather Service, local jurisdictions, state agencies, mass care elements, volunteer groups, private sector partners, and the federal government to provide maximum situational awareness of the potential threat to Texas.###
09.12.2007	From KDFM Channel 6 in Beaumont, TexasHURRICANE HUMBERTO STRIKES SOUTHEAST TEXASHurricane Humberto is now moving out of Southeast Texas after knocking out power to about 100,000 people. The National Hurricane Center upgraded Humberto to a Category 1 hurricane shortly after midnight. KFDM News was on the air telling you about the change within minutes of the change in status from Tropical Storm Humberto to Hurricane Humberto. The highest sustained winds at 12:35 a.m. Thursday were 80 miles an hour. According to KFDM's Greg Bostwick, the center of the storm is expected to pass over the Mid-Jefferson County Area with winds between 50-60 miles per hour. Stay with KFDM and KFDM.com for the latest information. Greg Bostwick and Bill Leger have been doing live cut-ins every hour on the hour since 11 p.m. We'll continue the cut-ins every thirty minutes throughout the night, and more often as necessary. You've heard from callers live on the air, reporting on high winds and other effects of the hurricane in High Island and the Winnie area. We're keeping our live Doppler radar picture in the corner of the tv screen throughout the night and morning. By MICHAEL GRACZYK Associated Press Writer HOUSTON (AP) - Hurricane Humberto, which sprang up overnight, crashed ashore early Thursday near the Louisiana line, bringing sustained winds of up to 80 mph and heavy rain that raised flooding fears, the National Weather Service said. Humberto was the first named storm to make landfall on the U.S. Gulf Coast since the twin onslaughts of Katrina and Rita in 2005. The greatest concern for Texas residents was the heavy rain falling in areas already inundated by a wet summer. Coastal areas of southwest Louisiana not fully recovered from Rita also were bracing for more misery. "I'm in a FEMA trailer (because of Rita) and I'm on oxygen," said Albertha Garrett, 70, of Lake Charles, La., who spent the night at a shelter in the Lake Charles Civic Center. "I had to come to the civic center just in case the lights would go out, because I'm alone and I'm handicapped." The Category 1 storm made landfall about 5 miles east of High Island, near the eastern tip of the Texas coast, then weakened and bore into central Louisiana, forecasters said. "It's a very compact storm," meteorologist Jim Sweeney said. "The strongest winds are very close to the center of circulation. The hurricane force winds only go about 15 miles." Power was knocked out for most of Beaumont and Port Arthur, Entergy Texas spokeswoman Debi Derrick said. She estimated about 100,000 customers were without power in the immediate wake of the storm. One location blacked out was Jefferson County's Emergency Operations Center in Beaumont, where wind speeds of 75 to 80 mph were noted, said Michael White, the county's assistant emergency management coordinator. Officials were forced to track the storm with laptops, he said. A hurricane warning had been issued from east of High Island to Cameron, La., while a tropical storm warning was posted to a section of Louisiana coast east of there. The storm had been expected to come ashore as a tropical storm until it energized into a Category 1 hurricane after midnight. At 8 a.m. EDT, the center of Humberto was about 25 miles west-northwest of Lake Charles. It was moving toward the north-northeast near 12 mph. The storm's rain bands were spreading over the coast and between 5 and 10 inches of rain were expected, with some spots possibly getting as much as 15 inches. But authorities said evacuations were not necessary. "There has been some very heavy rainfall in extreme southeastern Texas. Today it's going to be across Louisiana, Mississippi and southeast Arkansas," said Daniel Brown, hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami. Texas has had one of the wettest summers on record, with Houston soaked under the most rain it's had in a summer since 1942. With the ground already saturated, flooding was likely. Gov. Rick Perry activated 50 military vehicles with 200 soldiers, plus a half-dozen helicopters and two swift-water rescue teams. Other crews from the U.S. Coast Guard were on standby. "Some areas of our state remain saturated by summer floods, and many communities in this storm's projected path are at high risk of dangerous flash flooding," Perry said. In Louisiana, Gov. Kathleen Blanco declared a state of emergency. Calcasieu and Vermilion parishes had shelters on standby. Vermilion also was making sandbags and sand available, said Mark Smith, a spokesman for the Governor's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness. The warning area included Louisiana's Cameron Parish, which was devastated by Hurricane Rita - with winds far stronger than Humberto - in September 2005. More than 500 federally issued travel trailers and mobile homes remain there. Last month, at least six deaths were blamed on Tropical Storm Erin, which dropped nearly a foot of rain in parts of San Antonio, Houston and the Texas Hill Country. In 2001, slow-moving Tropical Storm Allison soaked Houston, dumping about 20 inches of rain in eight hours. About two dozen people died, sections of the city were paralyzed and damage was estimated at roughly $5 billion. Humberto is the eighth named storm this year and formed from a depression that developed Wednesday morning. Another tropical depression formed Wednesday far in the open Atlantic, about 930 miles east of the Lesser Antilles. It had maximum sustained winds near 35 mph and was moving west-northwest at about 16 mph. --- Associated Press writer Becky Bohrer in New Orleans contributed to this report. --- On the Net: National Hurricane Center: http://www.nhc.noaa.gov (Copyright 2007 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)
09.11.2007	HONORING THE FIRST RESPONDERS OF SEPTEMBER 11 Mr. Speaker, 6 years ago today, most Americans were going about their business, and then we woke up to the next day, September 11, 2001. I was not yet in Congress at that time, but I was a judge in Texas. I was driving to the courthouse when I was listening to country western music, and it was interrupted about an airplane that crashed into the World Trade Center. And a few minutes later, a second airplane crashed into the World Trade Center. About that time, as I was driving my jeep, I noticed that other folks on the road had pulled off to the side of the road, all doing the same thing, listening to the radio, hearing the news from New York. And then we heard more news. We heard about a third airplane, where some good folks in Pennsylvania took matters into their own hands. And later we learned why that plane crashed in Pennsylvania; it did not crash in Washington, D.C. at the White House or even this Capitol. And finally, we heard about a fourth airplane, a plane that crashed not far from here into the Pentagon. And at the end of that day, like many Americans, I was watching television and noticed all of the news reports about the World Trade Center and about the Pentagon, and followed that day, as most Americans, intensely observing and being concerned about our country. As I was watching television that afternoon, over the skies of Houston, Texas, where I'm from, the 147th Air National Guard were flying those F-16s on patrol over our skies and over our refineries, over our ports. But as I was watching television, I noticed that when those planes hit the World Trade Center, that there were thousands and thousands of people, good people, people of all races, all nationalities, both sexes and all ages, when those planes hit the World Trade Center, they were trying to get away from that terror in the sky as fast as they could. They were running as hard as they could. Nothing wrong with that, but that's what they were doing, fleeing that enemy that attacked us on our soil. But I also noticed that there was another group of people, not very many, but as soon as those planes hit the World Trade Center, they were running as hard as they could to get to that terror that had crashed into our buildings in New York City. Who were they? Emergency medical technicians, firefighters and police officers, because that's what they do; they respond first to terror, domestic or international. And while today, Mr. Speaker, it is very important that we remember the thousands of people who died on September 11, 2001, it's equally important that we remember the people who lived, that were allowed to live because our police officers, our firefighters and our emergency technical folks were on the job, saving those lives of those people who were in the World Trade Center. Amazing Americans, those individuals, many of whom lost friends that were trying to get into the World Trade Center, people that they had known all their lives, but they did it because it is their duty and because it was the right thing to do. Of course we have to remember and need to remember the plane that crashed into the Pentagon as well. And across the street from the Pentagon is Arlington National Cemetery, where we bury America's warriors from all wars since the war between the States. And on duty that day, when that plane came low across this land and crashed into the Pentagon, at Arlington National Cemetery, at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, those soldiers were on duty. They did not leave their post. They stayed there throughout the entire episode. Amazing people, our military. So it's incumbent upon us not only to remember those that died, those that lived because of our first responders, but we need to remember that we did not ask for this war, and we must deal with it wherever it takes us throughout this world. And that's just the way it is.
09.10.2007	STATEMENTWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement today after Gen. David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker delivered to Congress their assessments of our progress in Iraq:Today we had the chief political expert and the chief military expert for the United States before us in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Despite the cynics, critics, and defeatists who want there to be bad news, General Petraeus informed Congress that military progress is being made. Our job is not over in Iraq. It is in the best interest of America to finish our mission. War is hard, but retreat and a unilateral withdrawal is a plan for another Vietnam failure. Abandonment is what our enemy wants, but not what we will give them.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Terrorism and the Congressional Anti-Terrorism Caucus.
09.07.2007	CLICKTO WATCHCongressman Ted Poespoke on the House floor on September 7following last votes about his recent trip to the Texas/Mexico border.CLICK TO WATCH
08.31.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX -02) issued the following statement on the announcement by the Department of Transportation to proceed with the Pilot Program allowing Mexican trucking companies to operate past the 20 mile commecial zones:"I just returned from the Texas/Mexico border and the people in our border communities are fed up with the US Government. This latest attempt to steam roll Texans and Americans across our country with this dangerous trucking program is one more example of the blatant disregard this government seems to have for the American people. In May, I cosponsored the Safe American Roads Act that put a stop to this program. The bill overwhelming passed the US Congress and it is the will of the American people to stop this program. Yet our government is once again arrogantly going ahead with the plan to compromise the safety of Americans by continuing to open our borders and highways to unmitigated dangers. It is high time the US government does what it best for the citizens and economy of our country and not Mexico."Congressman Poe serves on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.CLICK HERE TO READRELATED ARTICLE
08.10.2007	DISTRICT OFFICE HOLDS OPEN OFFICE HOURS Jefferson County Congressional Staff Brings the Office to You!BEAUMONT, TEXAS Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his Jefferson County District office will hold open office hours throughout Jefferson County in August. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss casework and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.AUGUST DATES AND LOCATIONS: Monday, August 13, 2007Tuesday, August 14, 2007City of Beaumont Best Years Center780 S. 4th StreetBeaumont, TX 7770111am 12pm Tuesday, August 21, 2007Port Arthur Senior Citizens Center1308 9th AvePort Arthur, TX 7764211am 1pm Tuesday, August 30, 2007R. C. Miller Library1605 DowlenBeaumont, TX 777061pm 3pm ###
08.07.2007	FAA/TRACON CONSOLIDATION TOWN HALL MEETINGCongressman Poe Hosts Community Meeting on Proposed Changes at SETX Regional AirportBEAUMONT, TX Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host a community meeting for residents and stakeholders in Jefferson County to discuss the proposed changes by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to the Terminal Radar Control Centers (TRACON) facilities at the Southeast Texas Regional Airport in Beaumont, Texas.WHO: Congressman Ted PoeFAA, NACTA, AOPA RepresentativesHouston Airport Systems RepresentativeLocal Elected Officials and Community Stakeholders WHEN: Tuesday, August 7, 20077pm 8pm CST WHERE: Port Arthur YMCA6760 9th AvenuePort Arthur, TexasCongressman Poe successfully fought to include an amendment to the Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill prohibiting the FAA from using funds in this bill to eliminate, consolidate, or plan to consolidate TRACON facilities. The bipartisan measure gained approval of the US House of Representatives. In addition, Congressman Poe also sponsored a separate bill to suspend the authority of the FAA to eliminate, consolidate, or plan for the consolidation of any air traffic control facility. H.R. 2443 has 78 bipartisan cosponsors. Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Aviation Subcommittee. ###
07.20.2007	Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement today regarding the commutation request sent to President Bush for Border Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean:"In light of the recent commutation of Scooter Libby, I have joined my colleagues again in asking President Bush to exercise his authority to commute the sentences of Border Agents Nacho Ramos and Joe Compean. The circumstances surrounding their prosecution, conviction and incarceration far exceed the extremes in the Libby case. I urge the President to take the same swift actions." Border Agents Ramos and Compean are serving 11 and 12 year sentences for the involvement in the shooting of an illegal drug smuggler along the Texas-Mexico border.
07.12.2007	Watchdog Group Names Rep. Poe a Taxpayer HeroWashington, D.C. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) as a Taxpayer Hero for scoring 84 percent on its 2006 Congressional Ratings. The average for the entire House hit a new low at 29 percent, making Rep. Poes achievement that much more impressive. The 2006 Congressional Ratings cover the voting year 2006, the second session of the 109th Congress. CCAGW rated 44 key votes in the House.Voting against wasteful spending and tax hikes are easy votes, said Poe. Members of Congress must be responsible caretakers of Americas checkbook and not be tempted to support legislation when it is tied to wasteful spending. When Americans are not burdened with unnecessary taxes, they have more money to reinvest in our country and in their future. I am honored to be recognized by CCAGW and will continue to honor my pledge not to vote for any new tax increases on the American people.Since 1991, CCAGW has tracked roll call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. As one of 41 representatives with a score of 80 percent or higher, Rep. Poe consistently voted to cut wasteful spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers. Actions speak louder than words, CCAGW President Tom Schatz said. The way a member chooses to vote is the best indicator of whether a professed commitment to fiscal discipline is real. Rep. Poe puts the interests of taxpayers ahead of politics by recognizing the long-term consequences of excessive spending and working to reduce the enormous debt being left to future generations. When Congress had opportunities to vote for amendments that would have removed blatantly parochial special-interest projects and demonstrated that they were finally addressing spending and ethics problems, Rep. Poe went against the grain and voted yes. At the time that CCAGW ratings on cutting wasteful spending and taxes reached the abyss, Rep. Poe gives taxpayers hope for the future, Schatz concluded. CCAGWs website features the complete 2006 Congressional Ratings, including vote descriptions, scorecards for the House and Senate, personalized scorecards for each member of Congress, and averages by chamber, party, and state delegation. Visit www.ccagw.org. ###
07.10.2007	CLICK TO WATCH Mr. Speaker, Francis Scott Key is best known for being the author of our National Anthem, ``The Star Spangled Banner.'' During the second American revolution, the War of 1812, the British reinvaded the United States, captured Washington, DC, burned this building, the White House and most of this city. The English then set sail for nearby Baltimore and were determined to take the city, but Fort McHenry was blocking and protecting Baltimore Harbor. Key, a lawyer, had boldly gone on board a British ship to seek release of a captured United States citizen. The Royal Navy held both Key and his client and refused to release either until after the British naval attack on the fort was completed. During the night, the British bombarded the fort with hundreds of shells and rockets, but at ``dawn's early light,'' the American defenders still held the fort, refusing to surrender, and a massive 30 foot by 40 foot American flag still flew defiantly over Fort McHenry. The unsuccessful British sailed away. Francis Scott Key, upon seeing the flag, wrote our national anthem that was sung this past 4th of July throughout the prairies and plains of America. But, Mr. Speaker, Key also has a Texas connection. Before Sam Houston made his way to Texas, he served with Andrew Jackson in the Indian wars and was elected United States Congressman for Tennessee for two terms and served as Governor of Tennessee. After his governorship, Houston spent time in Washington, DC, during the 1830s advocating on behalf of the Cherokee Indians and denouncing the corruption in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. In 1832, Congressman William Stanbery from Ohio made slanderous accusations about Houston and the Cherokees on the floor of Congress. One morning, Houston was leaving a boarding house on Pennsylvania Avenue and saw Stanbery walking down the street. A confrontation occurred between the two men over Stanbery's statement. A street brawl resulted. Sam Houston thrashed and viciously beat Congressman Stanbery with his hickory walking cane for Stanbery's derogatory remarks on this House floor. Stanbery then pulled a pistol and put it to the chest of Houston, but the pistol misfired. Mr. Speaker, fate saved Sam Houston's life. The United States Congress ordered the arrest of Sam Houston, charging him with assault and demeaning a Member of Congress. Houston was tried before Congress in a joint session with the Supreme Court acting as judges. The trial lasted a month. Houston spent one full day on this House floor in boisterous oratory stating his positions, that he was defending his honor; Stanbery was the aggressor; and anyway, Stanbery deserved the severe caning. So what does Francis Scott Key have to do with any of this? Francis Scott Key was Sam Houston's defense lawyer. He did an admirable job in the defense of this later Texas hero, but after the trial was over, Houston was found guilty, publically reprimanded and ordered to pay a $500 fine. Houston refused to pay the fine and, rather than face more problems with Congress, left Washington that same year and began a new life and political career in Texas. And the rest, they say, is Texas history. General Sam Houston was the successful commander of the Texas Army during the Texas War of Independence from Mexico in 1836. After defeating Dictator Santa Anna on the marshy plains of San Jacinto, Houston became the first president of the Republic of Texas. After Texas was admitted to the United States in 1845, he was a United States Senator and then Governor of the State. Houston is the only person to serve as Governor and Member of Congress from two different States. Sam Houston's troubles with the legislative bodies continued, however. When Texas voted to leave the Union in 1861, the Governor, Houston, refused to take the oath to support the Confederacy. So the Texas legislature removed General Sam from the office of Governor. Too bad. Maybe if Francis Scott Key had been Sam Houston's lawyer before the Texas legislature, the outcome might have been different. And that's just the way it is. CLICK TO WATCH
07.02.2007	DISTRICT OFFICE HOLDS OPEN OFFICE HOURSIN JULYJefferson County Congressional Staff Brings the Office to You!BEAUMONT, TEXAS Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that in addition to normal business office hours, his Jefferson County District office will hold open office hours throughout Jefferson County in July. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss case work and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.JULY DATES AND LOCATIONS: Wednesday July 11, 2007 9-11 AMJefferson County Precinct 4 Courthouse19217 Highway 365Beaumont, TX 77705Tuesday July 17, 2007 10:30 AM -12:30 PMNederland Senior Citizens Center914 Boston AvenueNederland, TX 77627Wednesday July 25, 2007 10 AM 12 PMEffie & Wilton Hebert Library2025 Merriman StreetPort Neches, TX 77651###
06.08.2007	Poe Denounces Plans to Suspend Passport RequirementsEnforce the law government inefficiency jeopardizes national securityWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) expressed his concerns over a proposed plan by the Administration to waive important security measures as a result of inefficient government planning. Poe joined fellow Members of Congress urging Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to take swift action in addressing the backlog in Passport offices across the country. Due to changes in Federal law, coupled with the busy summer travel season, the current passport processing wait time is in excess of 12 weeks. After six months of processing passports under the new law, there is little if any appearance of changes in efficiency and allowing a change in the law to make up for their failure is just not acceptable, said Poe. Instead of hiring more personnel and planning ahead for changes made by Congress over three years ago, the government chooses to disregard the law. In a letter to Secretary Rice, Members of Congress urge the Secretary to take swift action in addressing the backlog. We believe you will agree that the current situation is unacceptable and respectfully request that you take immediate action to remedy the situation. My office is inundated with calls about their passport, said Poe. And while my office has managed to wade through the government chaos to get answers, there is no sign of it getting any better in the foreseeable future. This was not a surprise law. The passport bureaucrats had plenty of notice, but did not take the appropriate measures to handle routine procedure of issuing passports. This is the same inefficient agency the Administration wants to legalize 12-20 million illegals with Z-Visas. The security measures in the 9/11 Commission Report are very clear we need an universal identification document for everyone entering the United States, Poe continues. I have filed legislation in the past requiring everyone entering the country to have a Passport. The Passport is the most efficient identification document we have and is recognized by every government in the world. Unfortunately, bureaucrats have mangled the intent of the WHTI and the efforts of the Administration to wave the security requirements pose a threat to our safety and prove to be just another band-aid on our border security policy. The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) was passed by Congress in 2004 and signed into law by President Bush on December 17, 2004. This law closes the identification loopholes described in the 9/11 Commission Report and requires all citizens of the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Bermuda to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearers identity and nationality to enter or re-enter the United States from within the Western Hemisphere. This travel initiative is being implemented in two phases: the first phase will be for air travel beginning January 23, 2007, and the second for land/sea travel as early as January 2008. ###
06.06.2007	THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSMAN TED POEHARRIS AND LIBERTY COUNTY OPEN OFFICE HOURS AND LOCATIONS SCHEDULEThese hours are in addition to normal business hours at the Humble-area district office located at 20202 U.S. Highway 59 North, Suite 105, Humble, Texas 77338SPRINGSpring Barbara Bush Library 6817 Cypresswood DriveSpring, TX 7737910 - 11 a.m.AUGUST 2, 2007SEPTEMBER 6, 2007OCTOBER 4, 2007NOVEMBER 1, 2007DECEMBER 6, 2007BAYTOWNBaytown Chamber of CommerceAmegy Bank Bldg1300 Rollingbrook, Suite 400Baytown, TX 775219-10 a.m.JULY 12, 2007SEPTEMBER 13, 2007NOVEMBER 8, 2007LA PORTELa Porte Harris County Library600 South BroadwayLaPorte, TX 7757110-11 a.m.JUNE 14, 2007AUGUST 9, 2007OCTOBER 11, 2007DECEMBER 13, 2007LIBERTY/DAYTONDayton Chamber Office212 Bryan St Dayton, TX 77535 9-10 a.m.JUNE 21, 2007AUGUST 16, 2007OCTOBER 18, 2007
06.01.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. Speaking at a Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Georgia this week, President Bush said the following: "Those determined to find fault with this bill will always be able to look at a narrow slice of it and find something they don't like. If you want to kill the bill, if you don't want to do what's right for America, you can pick one little aspect out of it."Members of the Immigration Reform Caucus (IRC) issued the following statements: Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX): "The problem with this bill is that the "narrow slice" just happens to be the worst tasting part. Not granting amnesty to 20 million people who deliberately broke our laws is what's best for America. Preserving the tradition of legal immigration is what's best of America. Kow-towing to Mexico, the country that takes and takes from America, but booed Miss America off stage - is exactly what is wrong with this bill and this administration."Chairman of the IRC Brian Bilbray (R-CA): "Amnesty for 12-20 million illegal immigrants isnt a "narrow slice" Mr. President, its the whole darn pie. What part of illegal does the President not understand? The American people want us to secure the border and crackdown on the number one incentive for illegal immigration which is illegal employment they dont want another amnesty."Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee Lamar Smith (R-TX): "It doesn't matter how you slice it, the Senate amnesty bill is a raw deal for American workers and the rule of law. The bill treats illegal immigrants better than those who play by the rules, wait their turn and come in the right way. Either according to a law dictionary or common sense, the Senate bill is amnesty." Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA): "Sadly, the President has it backwards. There are narrow slices of this bill many of us could support, like putting border security first and ending chain migration. It is the bill as a whole thats cause for heartburn. If we pass this legislation, 12 million illegal immigrants will be on a path to citizenship without any concern for its dire impact on programs like Medicare and the education system. First and foremost, our immigration laws must support America's security, economy and society. The Senate bill fails on all three accounts." Congressman Bill Sali (R-ID): "In the last week, I have conducted a tele-townhall meeting with more than 800 Idahoans, was the guest on two radio talk shows and held a number of community meetings. I can safely say the number one issue with my constituents is immigration. Not the war. Not gas prices. It's immigration. Idahoans are deeply concerned about this issue and the President's bill. This is no little thing, no small slice of pie. It's a very big deal for Idaho and America."Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD): "Amnesty is not a 'narrow slice' or 'one little aspect' of the Senate immigration bill as the President argued. Awarding amnesty to 12-20 million illegal aliens is the one sure thing this bill would do. It will promote more illegal immigration by almost guaranteeing that if you can cross the border, you will be able to become a permanent U.S. resident with no obligation to become an American citizen."###
05.29.2007	DISTRICT OFFICE HOLDS OPEN OFFICE HOURS Jefferson County Congressional Staff Brings the Office to You!Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his Jefferson County District office will hold open office hours throughout Jefferson County. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss case work and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.JUNE LOCATIONS: Wednesday June 6, 200710am 12pmPort Neches Senior Citizens Center 633 Grigsby Port Neches, TX 77651Wednesday June 13, 200710am 12pm Groves Public Library 5600 W. WashingtonGroves, TX 77619 Wednesday June 20, 2007 10am 12pm Beaumont Public Library 801 PearlBeaumont, TX 77701 Wednesday June 27, 2007 10am 12pm Marion & Ed Hughes Public Library 2712 Nederland Avenue Nederland, TX 77627 ###
05.21.2007	Poe Calls for Stronger Border Protections, Denounces Senate Amnesty BillWASHINGTON, DCCongressman Ted Poe released the following statement on the Senate's immigration compromise:The Senates latest version of immigration reform legislation is just the second verse to the same old amnesty song."The Senate Amnesty Bill allows for people living in our country illegally to pay a fee to excuse their crime. This 'government kick back' would be the same as allowing someone who trespasses on your land to pay a fine and continue to live on your land. As a former judge I have sent hundreds of criminals to the penitentiary and I am sure that anyone of them would have gladly paid a fine, found a job, and promised to be a good person to avoid punishment for breaking the law. I will not support legislation that holds American citizens to a higher standard than those who knowingly and willingly entered our country illegally. "This plan continues to offer a lot of lip service to border security and I feel that it is impossible to address any immigration reform without securing our border first. The security highlights of this so-called compromise just repackages current laws we have now that are simply not being enforced. Our legal immigration system is in chaos and it doesn't take much common sense to know that adding millions more to the broken system will not work. This is a disgraceful message to send to the legal immigrants in our country and those in the process of coming here the right way. Our government can not have two sets of standards for people coming to our country, it is the very basis of discrimination."This plan also assumes that the people living here illegally want to be American citizens. What recourse do we have when they fail to meet the requirements of yet another Amnesty offer? None. The amnesty gift plan Congress passed in 1986 proved that it will not stop people from coming here illegally, in fact it encouraged more illegal immigration. It was believed that there were three million illegals here in 1986 and now, 20 years later, we are looking at 20 million with no end in sight.There is nothing political about the rule of law in our country. It is illegal to come here without the permission of our government regardless of your reasons. This issue has been manipulated to cater to the political agenda of some and the desire for cheap plantation labor of others. "The American people will not stand for amnesty any way you dress it up, nor will I.###
05.17.2007	SERVICE ACADEMY DAYIntroduction to US Service Academies and the Appointment ProcessHUMBLE, TX The Office of Congressman Ted Poe will be hosting an informational program for high school students in the 2nd Congressional District to learn more about the United States Service Academies and the application process. Representatives from each of the academies will be present to talk to students and their parents as well as answer questions. The Service Academy Coordinator for Congressman Poe will also explain the application process, criteria and important upcoming deadlines.The Service Academy day will be centrally located in Baytown and is open to the residents of the 2nd Congressional District.For additional information regarding the application process, please visit our website www.house.gov/poe.WHEN: Saturday, May 19, 20071pm 3pmWHERE: Lee College BaytownAuditorium200 Lee Drive @ Texas AvenueBaytown, Texas MAP: http://www.lee.edu/maps.asp###
05.08.2007	Congressman Ted Poe Receives Yarborough AwardPoe Recognized for Outstanding Leadership on behalf of VictimsWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) received the Senator Ralph Yarborough Allied Professional Award from the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) Victims Services for outstanding leadership by a non-victim service professional who has made a contribution to victim rights and services. Congressman Poe was honored during an awards ceremony at the 20th Annual Texas Crime Victim Clearinghouse (TxCVC) Conference in Austin, Texas. Each year the TxCVC coordinates this state-wide training venue for law enforcement officers, judges, district and county attorneys, victim assistance coordinators, victim advocates, parole and probation personnel, victims and anyone else who provides a service to crime victims. Congressman Poe is the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus (VRC) and has been a life long advocate on behalf of victims and children. For more information on Congressman Poe or the VRC, please visit our website at http://poe.house.gov. ###
04.30.2007	CONGRESSMAN TED POE HOSTS TOWN HALL MEETINGSAtascocita and Crosby Residents Concerned about Border SecurityHUMBLE, TX Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) hosted two informational town hall meetings this weekend for residents from the Atascocita and Crosby-Huffman areas.Before a packed house, Congressman Poe addressed various issues and legislative items before the United States Congress, such as the War on Terror, economy/taxes, and victims rights. However, the most asked questions pertained to illegal immigration and border security. Congressman Poe highlighted legislation that he has sponsored and cosponsored to address border security and pledged not to support any bill that offered amnesty to people living in our country illegally. Additional concerns centered on the cases of former Border Patrol Agents Ramos and Compean and Edwards County Deputy Sheriff Gilmer Hernandez. Congressman Poe has been an outspoken advocate on behalf of Gilmer Hernandez and Border Agents Ramos and Compean and has requested a presidential pardon for all three law enforcement officers. For more information on Congressman Poe, these cases and other issues, please visit our website at www.house.gov/poe. Congressman Poe will be holding additional Town Hall meetings in the 2nd Congressional District throughout the year. ###
04.23.2007	POE CONTINUES FIGHT TO PARDON GILMER HERNANDEZMembers of Congress Ask for a Presidential Pardon WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) continues his efforts to free Deputy Gilmer Hernandez of Rocksprings, Texas, who was convicted and sentenced to federal prison for violating the civil rights of an illegal who was injured when the Suburban in which she was being smuggled in attempted to flee a traffic stop made by Hernandez. Congressman Poe joins other Members of Congress in asking President Bush to pardon and/or commute the sentence of Deputy Hernandez. Gilmer should not spend one more day behind bars, said Poe. We are asking the President to use his authority to investigate the actions taken in the case by the US Attorneys office and pardon Gilmer. In the request to President Bush, Members of Congress are asking that the President take swift action in reviewing the federal prosecution brought against Edwards County, Texas Deputy Sheriff Guillermo 'Gilmer' Hernandez. Deputy Hernandez was making what he thought to be a routine traffic stop on the evening of April 14, 2005 in Rocksprings, Texas, when the vehicle that he pulled over for running a red light suddenly attempted to run into him as it sped away. Feeling that his life was being threatened, Deputy Hernandez made a split-second decision and fired shots at the vehicles tires to disable the vehicle. A bullet fragment regretfully struck one of the occupants who was being smuggled into the country illegally from Mexico. Congressman Poe has been an outspoken advocate on behalf of Gilmer Hernandez and Border Agents Ramos and Compean. Congressman Poe serves on the Executive Committee of the Immigration Reform Caucus. For more information on Congressman Poe and this case, please visit our website at www.house.gov/poe. ###
04.19.2007	VEOLIA ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICESFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 18, 2007 Port Arthur, TX (April 18, 2007) Veolia Environmental Services invites the public to an informational open house at its Port Arthur facility on Monday, April 23 from 3-7pm.Members of Veolias staff will be on hand to conduct personal tours of the facility and explain the waste management processes that take place on site. The meeting is open to all interested citizens.The Veolia facility is located on Highway 73, 3.5 miles west of Taylors Bayou. For further information, please contact Mitch Osborne at 409 736 4105.-Ends-
04.18.2007	Congressional Victims Rights CaucusPresents Annual Victim Advocate Awards Congressmen Poe and Costa host event honoring Advocates WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and co-chair Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20) will host the 2nd Annual Awards Ceremony in Washington, DC. This years award winners include: Yvette Cade, Mark Lunsford, Anne Seymour, John Stein and Dr. Dean Kilpatrick. These awards serve as an opportunity to honor these individuals who have devoted their lives to promoting rights for crime victims and working to prevent future victimization, said Poe. It is these individuals who have provided a voice for all crime victims across the country. We owe them our gratitude and our thanks.WHEN: Wednesday, April 18, 20075:00 6:30pm ESTWHERE: Rayburn Office BuildingRoom B-338Washington, DCThe Victims Rights Caucus is a bipartisan caucus which advocates and provides a voice for all victims of crime, as well as law enforcement, in Congress. The Caucus was established by Congressman Poe in 2005 and has 32 bipartisan Members.2007 Award Recipients:Yvette Cade will receive the Eva Murillo Unsung Hero Award. This award recognizes a crime victim/survivor who has taken a personal tragedy to triumph over adversity. The recipient is a person who has utilized his or her experiences as a crime victim to promote public education and awareness, public policy development, and/or a greater awareness about crime victims rights and needs. Ms. Cade was brutally attacked and burned by her ex-husband after a Maryland judge dropped the protective order against him. Mark Lunsford, father of Jessica Lunsford, will receive the Public Awareness Award. This award is presented to an individual or organization that has used their voice, throughout the media, to promote and bring about change at the National level for crime victims. Anne Seymour of Justice Solutions will receive the Ed Stout Memorial Award. The recipient of this award is a professional or volunteer whose efforts directly benefit victims and survivors of crime, particularly in the areas of program development, public or agency policy development, community and public awareness, and collaboration among community and justice-based organizations who serve victims. John Stein, Deputy Director of National Organization of Victim Assistance and 30-year advocate for crime victims, will be awarded the Lois Haight Award recognizing a professional whose efforts have had a significant impact on local, state, national, or international public policy development and implementation, which promotes dignity, respect, rights, and services for victims of crime.Dr. Dean Kilpatrick, Director of the National Crime Victim Research and Treatment Center, will be honored with the Allied Profession Award. This award recognizes the efforts of individuals, organizations, and/or coalitions which directly benefit victims of crime, but who are not direct victim service providers.###
04.18.2007	Congressman Ted Poe Keynote Speaker at San Jacinto Day171st Anniversary of San Jacinto Day April 21, 2007HUMBLE, TX Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will serve as the keynote speaker at the San Jacinto Day Ceremony commemorating the 171st Anniversary of the Battle of San Jacinto. This years ceremony also marks the 100th Anniversary of the Battleground as the first State Park of Texas.WHEN: Saturday, April 21, 2007 San Jacinto Day10am 11am*10:30am 10:45am approximate speech timeWHERE: San Jacinto MonumentNorth Side of the Monument*VIP Parking for media; park staff will direct you to the site###
04.17.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 17, 2007 Congressman Poe Receives Spirit of Enterprise AwardUS Chamber Recognizes Congressman Poe for Pro-Growth AgendaWASHINGTON, DC For the second consecutive year, the United States Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Ted Poe (TX-2) with its prestigious Spirit of Enterprise award for his strong support for a pro-economic growth legislative agenda of the second session of the 109th Congress. I am honored to be recognized again this year by the United States Chamber of Commerce, said Poe. Supporting legislation that helps business owners and the American worker continues to be a top priority and I look forward to being a strong voice in Washington on behalf of small business.The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes outlined in its annual publication, How They Voted. Rep. Poe scored 87 percent with the Chamber last year and has compiled an 88 percent cumulative ranking during his tenure in Congress. Rep. Poe proved to be a valuable ally to the business community last year, supporting measures to stimulate job creation and spur economic growth, said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. The business community appreciates Teds dedication to a pro-growth agenda and we are proud to present him with this award.The U.S. Chamber is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region.###
04.17.2007	CONGRESSMAN POES BEAUMONT DISTRICT OFFICE HOLDS OPEN OFFICE HOURS Jefferson County Congressional Staff Brings the Office to You!BEAUMONT, TEXAS Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that his Jefferson County District office will hold open office hours throughout Jefferson County in April and May. A caseworker will be on hand in various locations to meet with constituents to discuss case work and issues concerning constituents of the Second Congressional District.APRIL LOCATIONS: Wednesday, April 18, 2007 9am 11am Port Arthur YMCA6760 9th AvenuePort Arthur, TX Wednesday, April 25, 2007 1 3pm Sabine Pass School 5641 S. GulfwaySabine Pass, TX MAY LOCATIONS:Wednesday, May 2, 2007Port Neches Social Security Office1 3pm 860 Magnolia Port Neches, TX 77651Wednesday, May 9, 2007 Port Arthur Library Meeting Room 1 3pm 4615 9th Port Arthur, TX 77642Wednesday, May 16, 2007 Nederland City Hall 1 3pm 1400 Boston Nederland, TX 77627Wednesday, May 23, 2007Port Arthur City Hall 1 3pm 444 4th St. Port Arthur, TX 77640Wednesday, May 30, 2007 China City Hall 1 3pm 425 N. Broadway
04.04.2007	House Foreign Affairs CommitteeU.S. House of RepresentativesFor IMMEDIATE ReleaseNine House Members Seek GAO Audit of UN AgencyPoe and foreign affairs committee memberspush for review of World Meteorological Organization WASHINGTON - Nine members of Congress including Congressman Ted Poe today requested that the Government Accountability Office open an inquiry into a UN agency that monitors global climate following reports of management irregularities and the dismissal of an auditor critical of agency management.In April 2005, an internal audit report concluded that millions of dollars in funds were embezzled from the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization (WMO), beginning as early as 1999.In late 2006, the former chief auditor responsible for the report, Maria Veiga, was reportedly dismissed by WMO. She has alleged that she was precluded from fully pursuing her investigation, that she was pressured to cover up facts regarding involvement by other WMO personnel in the irregularities, and that there is a possibility that fraudulent schemes persist.The 2005 audit accuses Sudanese national and former WMO official Muhammad Hassan, with the help of other WMO personnel, of misappropriating more than $3 million from the WMO.The United States is a member and the leading financial supporter of the WMO, a specialized agency of the United Nations that serves as an authority on the state of the Earths atmosphere and climate. Since 1997, the U.S has provided more than $115 million in assessed and voluntary contributions to the WMO, and the Bush Administration has requested more than $10 million for the U.S. contribution to the WMOs budget for the fiscal year 2008. The GAO request was initiated by U.S. Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Dan Burton (R-IN), Elton Gallegly (R-CA), Edward R. Royce (R-CA), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Bob Inglis (R-SC). All are Members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, on which Ros-Lehtinen serves as the Ranking Republican.The 2005 report concludes that embezzled funds were misused to exert improper political influence within the Organization, as part of a money-for-votes scheme that stretched back at least as far as 1999. Stolen funds were used to pay for travel, accommodation and pocket money of [Permanent Representatives] and Delegates of certain countries who would then vote and act according to Mr. Hassans and other WMO staff members instructions. In addition, stolen funds were misused to pay the minimum contributions of some countries to allow them to recover voting rights.In the letter to GAO, the Members want an examination of: whether U.S. contributions to the WMO have been misappropriated or misused; the adequacy and veracity of the UN investigation and report; and the adequacy of current WMO oversight mechanisms.Text of the Letter to David Walker, Comptroller-General of the United States:The United States of America is a member state and the leading financial supporter of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a specialized agency of the United Nations which serves as an authority on the state of the Earths atmosphere and climate. The United States has provided more than $115 million in assessed and voluntary contributions to the WMO since 1997, and the President has requested more than $10 million for the U.S. contribution to WMOs budget for the fiscal year 2008. Significant malfeasance was detailed in an official WMO Internal Audit Investigation Report dated April 29, 2005 (the Report). The Report states that a Sudanese national and former WMO official named Muhammad Hassan, with the help of other WMO personnel, misappropriated more than three million dollars from the WMO. Mr. Hassan fled shortly before authorities moved to arrest him, after phone contact with certain WMO officials.The Report describes that, in addition to enriching Mr. Hassan, the embezzled funds were misused to exert improper political influence within the Organization, as part of a money-for-votes scheme that stretched back at least as far as 1999. Stolen funds were used to pay for travel, accommodation and pocket money of [Permanent Representatives] and Delegates of certain countries who would then vote and act according to Mr. Hassans and other WMO staff members instructions. In addition, stolen funds were misused to pay the minimum contributions of some countries to allow them to recover voting rights.The former chief auditor responsible for the Report, Ms. Maria Veiga, was reportedly dismissed by WMO in late 2006. She has alleged that she was precluded from fully pursuing her investigation, was pressured to cover up facts regarding involvement by other WMO personnel in irregularities, and that [t]here is a real possibility that thefraudulent schemes persist.The purpose of this letter is to request the Government Accountability Office to examine and report on: (1) whether U.S. contributions to the WMO have been misappropriated or misused for the personal gain of WMO personnel, to recover the voting rights of other countries, to influence the outcome of WMO elections, or for any other illicit purpose; (2) the adequacy and veracity of the investigation and Report regarding the fraudulent misappropriation of WMO funds; (3) the adequacy of the investigation into alleged irregularities relating to the 2003 election of senior WMO officers, including the current Secretary-General; (4) the extent to which the WMO has disciplined, fired, or waived immunity from prosecution for personnel who were complicit in the malfeasance detailed in the Report, or culpably lax in its prevention; and (5) the adequacy of current WMO oversight mechanisms and activities.Your acceptance of this request will greatly support the efforts of Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in conducting oversight over United States participation in the United Nations system, and assessing current and future requests for United States funding of the World Meteorological Organization.#####
03.30.2007	For Immediate Release: March 30, 2007 Reps. LaTourette, LoBiondo & Poe Introduce Bill To Toughen Penalties for Smugglers of Illegal Aliens by Sea Washington, D.C. Republican Members of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee yesterday introduced the Maritime Law Enforcement Improvement Act of 2007, legislation to provide the Coast Guard with greater authority to apprehend and prosecute those attempting to smuggle illegal aliens into the United States by sea.The bill, H.R. 1811, was introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. Steven C. LaTourette (R-OH), Ranking Republican on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, U.S. Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and U.S. Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX).The Coast Guard has an incredibly difficult and dangerous job when it comes to these smuggling operations. This new legislation will help the Coast Guard crack down on those who coordinate and finance human smuggling, and make prosecution of these criminals much easier, LaTourette said.It is critical that we give the U.S. Coast Guard the necessary tools to protect our borders. This legislation will ensure that those who smuggle illegal aliens into our country are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, LoBiondo said.The fight to end illegal immigration in our country doesnt begin and end at the southern border. Currently it is not a felony to smuggle people into our country if you dont profit from it or harm them in the process. The Maritime Law Enforcement Improvement Act will correct that nonsense and further enforce our immigration laws, Poe said.The bill would make alien smuggling or the conspiracy or attempt to smuggle aliens into the United States a felony offense under federal law. Under current law, alien smuggling is only a felony offense if the smuggler seeks commercial advantage or private financial gain, or seriously harms or endangers an individual. In the maritime domain, such an offense is often difficult or impossible to prove, and officials frequently must settle for charging smugglers with lesser offenses or no offense at all. The Maritime Law Enforcement Improvement Act of 2007 would remove obstacles for future prosecutions and create a new federal felony offense that applies to the transportation of an alien illegally seeking to enter the United States aboard a vessel.* An offense under the bill would be punishable by 3 to 20 years in prison and/or a fine of up to $100,000. * In cases where a violation results in serious bodily injury to any person involved the offense would be punishable by 7 to 20 years in prison and/or a fine of up to $500,000. * In cases where a violation results in the death of any person involved an offense would carry a prison term of 10 years to life and/or a fine of up to $1,000,000. * The bill would also order the civil and criminal forfeiture of any vessel that is used to commit a maritime smuggling offense.H.R. 1811 also significantly enhances the capabilities of the Coast Guard to apprehend and prosecute alien smugglers by giving the agency extraterritorial jurisdiction outside of U.S. waters to gather evidence and conduct investigations. The bills language is modeled after the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act, which has appreciably enhanced the Coast Guards ability to interdict and prosecute drug smugglers bound for the United States. Like the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act, this bill would address the shortcomings of existing law that currently impede the prosecution of maritime smugglers.The legislation is based on a Coast Guard proposal, and the agency has determined this to be one of its highest legislative priorities of the year.# # #
03.28.2007	Congressman Gene Green 29TH Congressional District Of Texas Congressman Ted Poe 2nd Congressional District of TexasFOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 28, 2007 Texas Congressmen call on EPA to clean dangerous industrial waste site Washington, D.C. Congressman Gene Green (D-Texas) and Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas) have called on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to clean up a long-forgotten industrial waste site that has poisoned the San Jacinto River for decades.The contaminated area of the river east of Houston, which serves as a food source and recreation area, sends dioxin-laced sediment all the way to Galveston Bay. This mess is threatening the health of Texans and its not going to go away by itself, Green said. If we dont take responsibility for cleaning it now, the problem will only get worse.Green and Poe both represent areas affected by the contamination. The San Jacinto River area has long been a recreational site for families in eastern Harris County, said Poe. The pollution caused by the waste site threatens the quality of life and the health of the folks that live along the river and we can not continue to ignore the seriousness of this situation. In a letter dated March 23, they asked the EPA to designate the zone a Superfund site for the health and safety of our constituents. The Superfund program was enacted allow the EPA to require responsible parties to clean up contaminated sites. If the parties can not be located or are unable to clean the sites, the EPA may use money from the Superfund Trust Fund to clean up the contaminated areas.Dioxin levels in the San Jacinto River had been mysteriously high for years in spite of measures designed to reduce pollution from nearby industry. In 2005, scientists discovered that an industrial waste pit operated in the area until about thirty years ago. Over time, the pit became submerged in the river, and the company that operated the pit went out of business. Dioxin is an organic compound that can cause cancer and other health problems. Children and pregnant women are especially vulnerable to its effects. ###
03.20.2007	CONGRESSMAN POE RESPONDS TO INSPECTOR GENERAL SKINNERS STATEMENT ON THE RAMOS/COMPEAN INVESTIGATIONWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) responded today to the statement issued by Homeland Security Department Inspector General Richard Skinner in regards to the Ramos and Compean investigation. Inspector General Skinner stated that he stands by the actions of his staff and at no time did his office mislead Members of Congress in the investigation of former Border Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. This statement comes in response to news reports detailing testimony given by Inspector General Skinner before the Homeland Security House Appropriations Subcommittee where he testified under oath that four Members of Congress were misinformed by representatives from his office in a September 2006 meeting regarding the investigation.Today, six months after a meeting with Members of Congress and the staff of the Office of Inspector General of Homeland Security about the Ramos and Compean investigation, Richard Skinner of OIG is now saying his staff did not lie to Members of Congress, but that his staff was just mistaken about the facts when it briefed Congress, said Poe. At no time was I told that the information given to me and three other Members of Congress was confidential, however Im sure the OIG staff wishes it had been since the staff misled us on what occurred at the border. To imply that the false information given to us was not intended for the public justifies lying to Members of Congress is flat out appalling. Mr. Skinner claims that at the time his office did not know that the information was false, but after learning that it was no attempt was made on their behalf to inform us until he was questioned about it under oath. His staff not only provided us with inaccurate information about the case, they said they had the documents to prove their assertions. After repeatedly asking for such documents, they were never produced. Why? Because they dont exist. OIG would do well to simply tell the truth and give accurate information, in public and private, rather than use slick Madison Avenue press releases to justify their misstatements.For more information in Congressman Poes efforts on behalf of former Agents Ramos and Compean, please visit our website at www.house.gov/poe. To view the statement from DHS Inspector General, please click this link: http://www.dhs.gov/xoig/assets/testimony/OIGtm_RLS_020807b.pdf.###
03.19.2007	POE ISSUES STATEMENT ON GILMER HERNANDEZ SENTENCE:Gilmer should not spend one day behind barsWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement in response to the sentencing of former Edwards County Deputy Sheriff Gilmer Hernandez:Gilmer should not spend one day behind bars, said Poe. If there was any doubt on where our government stands on enforcing our borders, the sentence handed down today sends confirmation to law enforcement across our country that the US government continues to be on the wrong side of the law. While Gilmer is sent to prison for doing his job, the smuggler who attempted to run him down and the illegals who broke US laws remain free courtesy of the US Attorneys office. And to make matters worse, Gilmer has to pay $5000 to the illegal who received a minor abrasion in the incident. When is our government going to start working on behalf of the citizens of our country and not illegals? Gilmer Hernandez was sentenced to one year and one day in federal prison, three years of supervised probation, $5,000 fine and has to pay approximately $5,000 in restitution to the injured illegal. Hernandez was convicted in December 2006 for violating the civil rights of an illegal who was injured when the Suburban in which she was being smuggled in attempted to flee a traffic stop made by Hernandez. Congressman Poe has been an outspoken advocate on behalf of Gilmer Hernandez and Border Agents Ramos and Compean. Congressman Poe serves on the Executive Committee of the Immigration Reform Caucus. For more information on Congressman Poe and this case, please visit our website at www.house.gov/poe. ###
02.28.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter to congressional leaders today requesting immediate hearings into all aspects of the Ramos and Compean case.Numerous and repeated attempts by Members of Congress to ascertain the facts of this case through inquiries with relevant federal agencies have been unsuccessful. Requests for information have been delayed or denied, and certain federal investigators have misled Members of Congress about this case. The failure to obtain information on the investigation and prosecution of this case threatens Congress ability and inherent responsibility to provide oversight of these federal agencies. The implications of this case are far reaching for the control and security of Americas borders, said Poe. Our Border Patrol Agents have an especially dangerous and difficult job, and because of the outcome of this case, many are now second guessing themselves and questioning when and where they should draw their weapons out of fear of prosecution. The safety of our Agents and their ability to defend our borders has been materially damaged. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are currently serving 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively. The case has garnered national attention because of the harsh prosecution and unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during an altercation after over 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border.###
02.21.2007	Click here for article courtesy of the Houston ChronicleCLICK HERE FOR PHOTOSCongressman Ted Poe today hosted a ceremony officially naming the United States Post Office in Cleveland, Texas in honor of Lance Corporal Robert A. Martinez. Congressman Poe sponsored legislation that was recently signed into law designating the facility as the Lance Corporal Robert A. Martinez Post Office Building. I applaud Congress for joining me in honoring one of Texas fallen heroes, Lance Cpl. Robert A. Martinez, said Poe. This is a fitting tribute to a Marine who was deeply devoted to his community and our country. Robbie is a heroic representative of the State of Texas and an honorable defender of liberty and freedom.Lance Cpl. Martinez graduated from Cleveland High School in 2003. A pitcher for the baseball team, his goal was to attend college and become a coach. Those plans were put on hold, however, as Martinez felt a deep need to answer the call of duty. At the age of 17, before beginning his senior year at Cleveland High School, Martinez pre-enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. He left for basic training two days after graduation.Lance Cpl. Martinez spent seven months on the Syrian border in 2004, and returned to Iraq in July 2005. On Thursday, December 1, 2005, Martinez was killed in action by an Improvised Explosive Device. Lance Cpl. Robert A. Martinez, of the Second Battalion, Seventh Marine Regiment, First Marine Division, was only 20 years of age.Congressman Poe was joined at the ceremony by Robert Martinezs family, representatives of the United States Postal Service, Cleveland High School Principal Mr. Mike Ogden, Cleveland Mayor Clifton Wilridge, members of the Cleveland High School Air Force Junior ROTCand citizens of Cleveland, Texas.The ceremony concluded with a F-16 Aircraft - 147th Fighter Wing flyover, a rendition of TAPS by the Cleveland High School Royal Braves Band and a flyover by two United States Army Reserve Apache Helicopters. A reception followed at the Cleveland High School Gym.###
02.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) warned against a new initiative announced this week to extend credit to people residing in the United States without Social Security numbers.Money is said to be the root of all evil, said Poe. Apparently, Bank of America thinks making a buck is more important than knowing who their customers really are. By issuing credit cards and bank accounts to people without social security cards, banks are leaving the door wide open for money laundering, fraud and identity theft. Matter of fact, they are blatantly sending a message to drug cartels and terrorists around the world that they are open for business to anyone with the Almighty buck. Bank of America is no stranger to offering services to those illegally in our country, continued Poe. The link on their website to Send Money to Mexico is in Spanish and boasts how easy it is open an account and send money out of the country. How do we expect to hold employers who knowingly hire illegals responsible when American banks are rolling out the welcome mats? Issuing credit cards to people without social security cards is absurd. The banking industry would have you believe it has to do with helping those with poor credit history nonsense. It is about banks cashing in on the underground illegal cash economy, pure and simple. ###
02.08.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statement regarding the attack on Agent Ignacio Ramos in federal prison: The United States government continues to be on the wrong side of the border war. Not only did they choose to side with an illegal dope dealer in the prosecution of Border Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean, but now they have failed to protect Agent Ramos while in prison awaiting his appeal. Members of Congress have been misled and stonewalled at every turn trying to get the facts in this case. As a result, this case continues to deteriorate the confidence the American people have in our federal government to secure our borders and protect its citizens. I encourage President Bush to expedite the pardon process and free these two men as soon as possible. Congressman Poe has visited the Texas/Mexico Border numerous times and hosted meetings on behalf of the Texas Border Sheriffs in Washington, DC. Additionally, Congressman Poe is a leading advocate for border security and law enforcement, speaking out on the floor of the House of Representatives almost daily about the violence and lawlessness along our borders and the threat our nations border agents face daily.A former criminal court judge for more than 22 years, Congressman Poe serves on the International Relations Committee, Terrorism and Non Proliferation Subcommittee and the Congressional Border Security Caucus. Website address: poe.house.gov
02.05.2007	Congressman Ted Poe today announced internship recipients for his Jefferson County office.Congressman Poe is proud to have a mother/daughter team assisting him this session: Miss Nashia Sassau and her mother, Ms. Hilda Pickney.Sassau and Pickney intern Monday-Friday and assist answering phones, research and routine clerical duties. "We are so fortunate to have these ladies interning in our office," said Congressman Poe. "They are a huge help to us and they do such a great job. I am proud of their service."Sassau first met Congressman Poe and became acquainted with his office when she was the 2006 1st Runner up in the Miss Juneteenth Pageant.
01.25.2007	In 2006, U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced$28.5 million in fundingobtained for beautification, erosion prevention and flood control programs for the Houston area. The funding will finally take shape this weekend as Congressman Poe, community leaders, the City of Houston Parks and Recreation Department, Trees for Houston and TxDOT join together for the Arbor Day 2007 tree planting.The funding was obtained by Congressman Poe as a component of The Transportation Equity Act. This six-year bill provides funding for federal highway, transit and highway safety programs. I am so proud of this funding, said Poe. I realized that being on the Transportation Committee and putting together the Transportation Bill isnt just about laying concrete. This funding will be used to beautify Houstons highways with new landscaping, while also helping environmentally by combating erosion, creating flood control, and improving air quality for our area. The large scale landscaping will have a positive impact on economic development by attracting businesses to the area, increasing property values and bringing tourists, visitors and new consumer attitudes to the region.This weekend 2,000 volunteers are needed to help plant 20,000 trees along Will Clayton Parkway. WHO: Congressman Ted Poe, City of Houston Parks and Recreation Department, Trees for Houston and TxDOTWHAT: Arbor Day 2007 Tree PlantingWHEN: Saturday, January 27, 2007TIME: 8:00am-12:00pm with a presentation program at 11:00amWHERE: Will Clayton Parkway between Lee Road and McKay Road off of Highway 59 NorthCongressman Poe serves on the Transportation Committee and co-sponsored The Transportation Equity Act (H.R. 3). He worked closely with the Greater Houston Partnership as well as members of the Texas delegation on this project to ensure that the State received the money for high priority projects including new roads, better bridges, and highway landscaping. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit: http://poe.house.gov/ . ###
01.24.2007	Last night the President discussed important issues with the American people: homeland security, healthcare, immigration and energy. As I have always said, the first duty of government is to protect its citizens. To this end, I will continue to support our men and women in uniform and make sure they have the tools and support they need to win the war and get back home to their families.Regarding the rising cost of healthcare, the President rightfully noted that healthcare decisions should be patient-doctor driven, not insurance company driven or government driven. We have the best healthcare in the world but more and more Americans cannot afford it or the ever increasing insurance premiums. The 110th Congress must continue to look for ways to continue to bring quality healthcare to our citizens while helping to ease the burden of the costs.I was disappointed to hear the President encourage amnesty for illegal immigrants. I have been outspoken on this issue for more than 2 years. We must secure our borders first before we even begin the discussion about what to do about immigration. We must stop illegals from coming to this country and draining our social services and in many cases increasing the crime in our nation.I agree with the President that we must continue to push for more drilling while at the same time exploring and developing alternative fuels and fuel sources. Biofuels, ethanol, hydrogen power and solar power are all sources which should be developed. Our nation must be less dependent on foreign oilit is a homeland security risk to do otherwise.The President also emphasized the need for all members of Congress, to work together across the political aisle on behalf of America. The 110th Congress has much work to do. I have always been an independent thinker and I look forward to working with all members of Congress on these issues.
01.20.2007	This weekend Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) received the Border Defender of the Year Award at the Friends of the Border Patrol Conference and Awards Luncheon in San Diego, California.Congressman Poe was honored by the Friends of the Border Patrol because of his outspokenness on border security and illegal immigration, his support of law enforcement and his leading efforts to exonerate and pardon convicted El Paso Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean reported to federal prison to begin serving 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively, this month. The case has garnered national attention because of the harsh prosecution and unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during analtercation after over 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. I am proud to receive this award, said Congressman Poe. One of my priorities in Congress has been to draw attention to the lawlessness on the border and the fight our border agents and border sheriffs fight each and every day. We must keep attention on our borders and on our nations lack of a realistic border protection policy. Its chaos when our government seems to be more concerned about illegals and drug dealers than they are about America and Americans.Congressman Poes efforts on behalf of Agents Ramos and Compean:January 19, 2007Congressman Ted Poe requests previously unreleased information on the case from the Department of Homeland Securitys Office of Inspector General (OIG) under the Freedom of Information Act after the OIG reneged on a 2006 agreement to provide an investigative report to Rep. Poe and other members of the Texas Congressional Delegation.January 18, 2007Congressman Poe co-sponsors the Ramos and Compean Act sponsored by Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) seeking a congressional pardon for Agents Ramos and Compean.January 16, 2007Congressman Poes office sends petitions on behalf of Grassfire.org to the White House with more that 200,000 signatures requesting the president pardon Border Agents Ramos and Compean.January 10, 2007Congressman Poes office circulates a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales for Members signatures requesting the Justice Department to direct the federal prosecutors to not oppose a motion filed in court to keep the agents free on bond during the appeals process. Several discrepancies in the governments case strongly question whether justice has been served and permitting these men to be incarcerated in the interim puts their lives at risk. December 6, 2006Congressman Poes office and Congressman Dana Rohrabachers (R-CA) office along with more that 40 co-signers send a letter to President Bush requesting the sentences of Mr. Ramos and Mr. Compean be commuted.December 1, 2006Congressman Poes office sends a letter to Judiciary Committee Chairman Sensenbrenner requesting the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee hold a hearing to examine the convictions of Border Agents Ramos and Compean.September 26, 2006Texas U.S. Representatives Poe, McCaul, Culberson and Marchant meet with the Department of Homeland Security Inspector Generals office on Capitol Hill to discuss the Ramos and Compean cases. A request is made for additional information relating to the cases.Congressman Poe has visited the Texas/Mexico Border numerous times and hosted meetings on behalf of the Texas Border Sheriffs in Washington, DC. Additionally, Congressman Poe is a leading advocate for border security and law enforcement, speaking out on the floor of the House of Representatives almost daily about the violence and lawlessness along our borders and the threat our nations border agents face daily. A former criminal court judge for more than 22 years, Congressman Poe serves on the International Relations Committee, Terrorism and Non Proliferation Subcommittee and the Congressional Border Security Caucus. Website address: poe.house.gov
01.16.2007	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) filed legislation to amend federal law making it a federal crime to vandalize the grave of a member of the Armed Services, whether that member is buried on public or private property. Federal law, as it currently stands, only protects the gravesite if it is located on public property. "Two days following the hometown funeral of Lance Corporal Jeremy Burris from Liberty, Texas, vandals desecrated Jeremys gravesite, said Poe. The outlaw responsible has since been arrested and charged with a state felony, but no federal provision exists that would protect Jeremys grave from vandalism at a private cemetery. Current federal law protects the gravesites of military men and women who are buried on public property, but not private property. This bill will make sure the honor of the men and women who have so faithfully served our country is preserved on both public and private property.H.R. 4973: To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide criminal penalties for the destruction of memorials, headstones, markers and graves commorating persons serving in the Armed Forces on private proprty.
01.10.2007	STATEMENTWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX) issued the following statement regarding the passage of H.R. 2, the Fair Minimum Wage Act:I heard from constituents from all across my district and they overwhelmingly supported raising the federal minimum wage. I would have preferred the bill include measures to assist small businesses, like the ability to join into Small Business Association Health Plans, but the people in my district wanted an increase and I supported the measure. I voted for the increase in the 109th Congress and I voted for it again in the 110th Congress.The Republican proposal that failed, but for which I voted (the WAGE Act of 2007), encouraged small businesses to offer health coverage to their workers. I hope the Senate will add Small Business Association Health Plans before the bill becomes law.###
01.10.2007	STATEMENTWASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX) issued the following statement regarding the Presidents plan in Iraq:The time has long come for the Iraqi military to shoulder the responsibility in policing their country, said Poe. Additional US military forces must be used to regain and maintain control of previously secured areas to allow Iraqi forces to take control of policing their own country effectively. Shiite and Sunni militias must be dealt with equally and decisively to put an end to the violence and deter countries like Iran and Syria that are chopping at the bit to get in. I am encouraged by the Presidents pledge to work with Congress on developing strategy and a way forward to finishing the job and winning the war. The consequences of failure are far too great for anything less than a swift and lasting victory in Iraq. ###
01.10.2007	PRESS CONFERENCE Lawmakers call on Attorney General to allow Border Agents to remain free on bond pending appealCongressman Ted Poe, Congressman Dana Rohrabacher, Congressman Walter Jones, Congressman Tom Tancredo, Congressman Duncan Hunter along with other co-signers announced their intent to send a letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales asking him to allow convicted Border Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean free on bond pending the appeal of their convictions.STATEMENT BY CONGRESSMAN POE:The government chose sides in this issue and they chose the wrong side when they decided to prosecute these agents, said Congressman Poe.The U.S. Attorney went to Mexico, found the drug dealer, took him to America, treated his bullet wounds, and then gave him immunity to testify against agents Compean and Ramos for their shooting him, the criminal.Both border agents were convicted by an overzealous prosecutor that was looking for pelts in her belt. She appeared to have more loyalty to Mexico than to America because she was on the wrong side.Both agents await sentencing. The two border agents should have been given medals and sent back down to the border to apprehend another drug dealer instead of being prosecuted.This is yet another example of how our government is more concerned about illegals and drug dealers than they are about America and Americans.BACKGROUND:Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean are currently scheduled to serve 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively, this month. The case has garnered national attention because of the harsh prosecution and unjust conviction of the agents for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during analtercation after over 740 pounds (over $1 million street value) of marijuana was discovered in his van near the border. January 10, 2007Letter to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales circulated for Members signatures by Congressman Ted Poes office requesting the Justice Department to direct the federal prosecutors to not oppose a motion filed in court to keep the agents free on bond during the appeals process. Several discrepancies in the governments case strongly question whether justice has been served and permitting these men to be incarcerated in the interim puts their lives at risk.December 6, 2006Letter sent to President Bush requesting the sentences of Mr. Ramos and Mr. Compean be commutedDecember 1, 2006Letter sent to House Judiciary CommitteeChairman Sensenbrenner requesting the House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee hold a hearing to examine the convictions of Border Agents Ramos and CompeanATENDEES:Congresssman Ted Poe (R-TX)Congressman Tom Tancredo (R-CO)Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC)Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA)Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA)Convicted Border Agent Mr. Jose Compean and his wife PattyAndy Ramirez, President of the Friends of the Border PatrolT.J. Bonner, President of the National Border Patrol CouncilRich Pierce, Executive Vice President of the National Border Patrol Council
01.05.2007	CONGRESSMAN TED POE SWORN IN FOR SECOND TERMWelcomes lobbying reform as one of the 110th Congress first actionsWASHINGTON, D.C. Congressman Ted Poe today assumed the oath of office for his second term as the U.S. Representative for Texas Second Congressional District.I am deeply honored for the confidence and trust that the people of Texas Second Congressional District have again placed in me to serve as their voice in Washington, Congressman Poe said. Most issues are not partisan issues, they are people issues. I worked well with members from both sides of the aisle in the 109th Congress and I look forward to continuing to work across the aisle for my district, Texas and the Nation in the 110th Congress.The first order of business for the 110th Congress is to debate and vote on the House Rules Package (H. Res. 6) which outlines proposals for the operation of the House of Representatives. Among other things, the House Rules Package proposes to ban Members from accepting gifts from lobbyists or organizations employing lobbyists and generally bars members from lobbyist-sponsored trips. Lobbying reform is long overdue, said Congressman Poe. I proposed a bill last year which would have prohibited Members, officers and employees of the House from accepting any gifts from registered lobbyists. I am proud to see this bill make it to the floor for a vote.Prior to his election to Congress, Judge Poe, a former six-term felony district court judge in Harris County, Texas, gained national attention for his innovative sentencing techniques in punishing criminals ranging from ordering thieves to carry signs in front of stores from which they stole to requiring a man who abused his wife to publicly apologize on the steps of Houston City Hall. Moreover, Judge Poe spent eight years as a trial lawyer in the Harris County district attorneys office and became one of the youngest judges in the state following his appointment by Governor Clements in 1981. He was subsequently re-elected six times and moved approximately 20,000 cases through the Countys court system. Poe also served at Ellington AFB as a member of the U.S. Air Force Reserves C-130 Unit. ###
01.02.2007	Congressman Poe was in the studio in New Yorkon CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight" on January 3to discuss the merits of a Presidential pardon for Border Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean.The Ramos and Compean cases garnered national attention because of the prosecution and conviction of the agents by the U.S Attorneys Office for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during a nighttime altercation after over 800 pounds of marijuana was discovered in his van near the Texas-Mexico border.
12.07.2006	Today Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) along with other co-signers announced a letter to President Bush requesting a Presidential Pardon for Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean. Ramos and Compean are currently scheduled to serve 11 and 12 year prison terms, respectively, in January 2007. The Ramos and Compean cases garnered national attention because of the prosecution and conviction of the agents by the U.S Attorneys Office for shooting a fleeing illegal drug smuggler during a nighttime altercation after over 800 pounds of marijuana was discovered in his van near the Texas-Mexico border. Comment from Congressman Ted Poe:It seems to me the U.S. government is on the wrong side of the law. The battle on the border is growing more violent everyday and our law enforcement officials need to know that they have the full support of the U.S. government in enforcing our immigration laws. It is appalling to me that our own government would give immunity to an illegal drug smuggler in their effort to prosecute these two brave young men who were simply doing their job protecting the dignity of our borders and our country. I urge President Bush to extend a full pardon to both of the agents.There were 48 cosigners on the letter to the President at time of press conference advisory.###
12.05.2006	U.S. Department of Transportation Withdraws International Investment Rule Commits to Working on Open Skies Agreement U.S. Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters today announced the Department is withdrawing a proposal that would have changed rules governing international investment in U.S. airlines after reviewing a multitude of public comments, including those received from Congress. The Secretary also re-affirmed the U.S. commitment to completing a market-opening aviation agreement with the European Union.It was clear from reviewing the comments that the Department needs to do more to inform the public, labor groups and Congress about the benefits of allowing more international investment. We need a stronger national consensus about the best means of achieving that objective, said Peters, who was sworn in as the 16th Secretary of Transportation on October 4. Secretary Peters noted that the original proposal, first issued by the Department in November 2005 and later amended in May 2006, would have allowed international investors more input in the marketing, routing and fleet structures of U.S. airlines while retaining current domestic ownership and labor protections. Saying that todays announcement in no way deters us from our goal of giving U.S airlines complete access to the worlds capital markets, Secretary Peters said the Department was eager to work with Congress and the aviation industry to find new ways to make it easier for airlines to raise money from global investors. Secretary Peters said the Department remains committed to seeking an Open Skies aviation agreement with the European Union. And while she noted the investment proposal was not directly linked to such an agreement, she acknowledged that some involved with the European negotiations had aligned the two. Nobody doubts the benefits to travelers, airlines and our economy of making it easier to fly to and from Europe, Peters said.The Departments notice is available at http://dms.dot.gov, docket OST-03-15759. ### This release courtesy of the Department of Transportation
11.28.2006	Congressman Ted Poe today sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters opposing the Administrations proposed rulemaking that would allow foreign investor control over United States airline companies. Earlier this year the 109th Congress, both the full House and the Senate Appropriations Committee, denounced allowing foreign interests to control all commercial aspects of a U.S. airlines operations. Allowing the rule despite Congress overwhelming opposition is a security risk and violates the will of the people and the Congress who represents them, said Poe.The text of the letter to Secretary Peters appears below.The Honorable Mary E. PetersSecretaryU.S. Department of Transportation400 Seventh Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20590-0001Dear Secretary Peters:Last June, a number of my House colleagues and I sent the attached letter to your predecessor, Norman Mineta, stating our profound disapproval of the Department of Transportations proposed rulemaking that would allow foreign investor control over United States airline companies. I continue to disapprove of this measure and respectfully remind you of the 109th Congress decisive bipartisan votes against this rule. As you know, both the House and the Senate approved measures which denounce allowing foreign interests to control all commercial aspects of a U.S. airlines operations, including fleet mix, routes, frequency, classes of service and pricing. Allowing the rule despite Congress overwhelming opposition violates the will of the people and the Congress who represents them. The American public, and specifically the men and women who work in the aviation industry, have strong doubts on how changing the current law on foreign ownership might impact not only the industry, but the United States. The main concerns include:·Jobs could be lost to other nations pilots and crew·Airline company decisions such as routes and type of aircraft in a companys fleet would be made by entities who may not have our best interests in mind·National security under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program could be jeopardized or at least in question. In time of deployment U.S. airlines cooperate with the U.S. government. If a foreign company owns an American airline who is to say they will agree when it is necessary to mobilize our troops?I believe any changes that might be made to foreign ownership laws should be accomplished only by open and vigorous Congressional scrutiny and debate rather than unilaterally imposed through rulemaking by the Executive Branch. American airline companies such as my hometown carrier, Continental Airlines, are opposed to this rulemaking authority. While it may be good for Europe, it is not good for America.I urge you to take these arguments into consideration and withdraw the proposed rule.
11.15.2006	Congressman Ted Poe kept his pledge to support Texas teachers today by signing a discharge petition to bring H.R. 147, the Social Security Fairness Act to the floor for an immediate vote. To bring the bill to the floor, the petition needs 218 signatures. Congressman Poes signature brings the total to 122.I support Texas teachers and their dedication to our children, said Poe. I encourage other Members of Congress to join me in calling for an immediate vote on this issue. Teachers have waited long enough for Congress to act on this legislation and should not continue to be penalized for inaction.Congressman Poe is a cosponsor of the following legislation: The Social Security Fairness Act Amends title II, the Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to repeal: (1) pension offset provisions applicable to husband's and wife's insurance benefits, widow's and widower's insurance benefits, and mother's and father's insurance benefits with respect to OASDI payments; and (2) windfall elimination provisions with respect to computation of the primary insurance amount of an individual.The Public Servant Retirement Protection Act of 2005 Amends title II, the Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to repeal the current windfall elimination provision (WEP) (that reduces the Social Security benefits of workers who also have pension benefits from employment not covered by Social Security) for individuals first performing non-covered service beginning one year after enactment of this Act. ###
11.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) today released the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day, which is being observed on Saturday, November 11:Veterans Day is a day to honor those brave men and women that have proudly served our country. Every American should say thank you to those who have sacrificed for our freedom and to make the United States of America the best country in the world. Let us remember the veterans of all wars and keep our troops that are fighting for freedom and democracy today in our prayers. May God continue to bless the USA.###
11.03.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) spoke to the Baytown Kiwanis Thursday at their monthly meeting. Congressman Poe spoke to the full house about border security, off shore drilling, the elimination of the Death Tax and the War on Terror.I believe that it is important for Members of Congress to witness events first hand, said Poe. I was one of two Members of Congress to be in Iraq on their first election day and had the opportunity to visit with our troops on the ground. They are confident in what they are doing and contrary to what you see in the mainstream media, we are winning the war.Congressman Poe also took questions form the group which largely referred to border security and illegal immigration. Our government doesnt have the moral will to enforce our borders, said Poe. I have been to the Texas/Mexico border five times and spoken directly to the border sheriffs and residents there. We have a serious security issue there and lawlessness on our border breeds lawlessness in our country. Congressman Poe pointed to recent legislation passed by Congress to respond to the public outcry for immediate border enforcement and pledged to continue to be an outspoken advocate on this issue.For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit our website at www.house.gov/poe.###
11.01.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was the keynote speaker at the Beaumont Spindletop Rotary meeting. Congressman Poe offered an overview of the accomplishments made in the United States Congress during his first term, including the creation of the Victims Rights Caucus, The Adam Walsh Child Safety Act and efforts to secure our borders.Congressman Poe welcomed comments and questions from the group and accepted thanks for his work on behalf of the Jefferson County Waterways and Navigation District. Congressman Poe has been an advocate for increased funding and security along our waterways and our ports to further economic development in Jefferson County.Attention was also given to the continuing Hurricane Rita recovery efforts. Congressman Poe has worked closely with Jefferson County leaders and has been an advocate in Washington for southeast Texas in seeing that they receive their fair share of federal funding. Most recently, Southeast Texas received a Social Service Block Grant (SSBG) for $23 million to fund fifty social service, non-profits, faith-based organizations and governmental entities in Hardin, Jefferson and Orange Counties assisting in the ongoing hurricane recovery efforts.All three congressional offices continue to assist residents with hurricane recovery and offer many services to the community. Congressman Poe proudly announced the large number of military academy appointments young men and women received from the Second Congressional District. For more information on the Academies application process or other services provided by the Congressional Office, please visit the website, www.house.gov/poe.###
10.30.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent a letter of support to the Attorney General of the United States, Alberto Gonzales to strongly consider including the City of Houston Police Department in the Initiative for Safer Communities study. This new study was recently announced by Attorney General Gonzales at the International Association of Chiefs of Police to target violent crime prevention efforts in selected communities across America that have shown unexplained increases in crime.According to Houston Police Departments figures, since 2005, there has been an increase in the following: 30 percent for murder, 4 percent for rape, 5 percent for robbery and 2 percent for aggravated assault. Gang related murder has increased an astounding 90 percent this year.During hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the city welcomed displaced individuals and helped them along the path to building new lives, said Poe. But with the good came the bad and the city saw an increase in the number of criminals on the streets. In conjunction with rising crime rates, HPD is faced with a large illegal immigrant population that creates an additional financial burden in policing crimes in the community. The Initiative for Safer Communities study will allow HPD to identify possible factors contributing to the increase and the tools to combat crime in our city.Congressman Poe served as a Harris County Criminal Court Judge for 22 years, presiding over 25,000 cases. He has been a leading advocate for law enforcement officers and victims of crime. For more information on Congressman Poe, please visit his website, www.house.gov/poe.###
10.20.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joins officials in Jefferson County today to announce a Social Service Block Grant (SSBG) for $23 million to fund fifty social service, non-profits, faith-based organizations and governmental entities in Hardin, Jefferson and Orange Counties assisting in the ongoing hurricane recovery efforts in southeast Texas. Congressman Poe has been an outspoken advocate for the people of Jefferson County throughout the hurricane recovery process and continues to see that needs are met and projects receive the full funding they deserve. DISTRICT RECOVERY EFFORTS Public Workshops with the IRS, Small Business Administration (SBA), and Texas Department of Insurance Town Hall Meetings with FEMA, USDA, SBA, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Texas Department of Insurance, and Texas Department of Agriculture providing one-on-one access to representatives processing claims Roundtable Meeting and tour with local leaders and HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson Congressman Poe hosted President George W. Bush, Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johans, and a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) touring Jefferson County and meeting with local officials Dedicated staff members to specifically handling FEMA cases and continue to do so Congressman Poe was immediately on the ground following Hurricane Rita, met with local officials, first responders and took an aerial tour of the damage Congressman Poe held weekly conference calls with Mayors and City Managers across the districtWASHINGTON RECOVERY EFFORTS Hosted a delegation of 14 US/Texas Congressional Members and staff representatives to meet with the Friends of Southeast Texas in Washington Congressman Poe met personally with Homeland Security Director, Michael Chertoff, to emphasize the need for full federal funding in Southeast Texas Congressman Poe spoke before the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environments Hurricane Preparedness Panel about the need for equalization of federal relief efforts as it applies to both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Congressman Poe sent a letter to Speaker Hastert to support 90-10 funding for Texas; which was included in the final bill Cosponsored legislation: Essential Gulf Coast Recovery Act 2005 Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005 ###
10.20.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) pledges to support Texas teachers by signing a discharge petition to bring H.R. 147, the Social Security Fairness Act to the floor for an immediate vote when Congress reconvenes in November.As a former part-time teacher in public schools and at the university level, I respect and support teachers for their dedication to our children and performing one of the hardest jobs out there, said Poe. I do not believe that they should be penalized for choosing their noble profession and I will support efforts to allow for them to receive benefits they deserve. Congressman Poe is a cosponsor of the following legislation: The Social Security Fairness Act Amends title II, the Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to repeal: (1) pension offset provisions applicable to husband's and wife's insurance benefits, widow's and widower's insurance benefits, and mother's and father's insurance benefits with respect to OASDI payments; and (2) windfall elimination provisions with respect to computation of the primary insurance amount of an individual.The Public Servant Retirement Protection Act of 2005 Amends title II, the Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to repeal the current windfall elimination provision (WEP) (that reduces the Social Security benefits of workers who also have pension benefits from employment not covered by Social Security) for individuals first performing non-covered service beginning one year after enactment of this Act. ###
10.13.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces that Jefferson County Waterway & Navigation District was awarded $4,444,162 by the U.S. Department of Homeland Securitys Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to repair flood gates and drains damaged by Hurricane Rita.This funding is as follows:$4,444,162.00 (Federal share) - Jefferson County Waterway & Navigation - The 512-square-mile watershed, which is the combination of Taylors Bayou, Hillebrandt Bayou, and Big Hill Bayou in Southeast Texas, drains from upland areas in and surrounding Beaumont, TX, Nome, TX, and Winnie, TX, in a southeasterly direction and enters the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway near Highway 87. All of this runoff is directed through a set of flood gates and navigation locks, which perform the dual function of preventing salt water intrusion from the Intracoastal into the fresh water system, as well as conveying flood flows. The structure consists of two sets of modern tainter-gate-type structures--one set of 7 and one set of 4--and a set of out-dated wooden steel and flap-type structures, which is currently non-functional and has been isolated from the flood flow due to major erosion and gate inoperability problems. The problems with these wooden flap gates has been accelerated in the last 7 years since we had floods in 1998, 2001, 2002, 2003, and again during Rita in 2005. These flap gates are an extremely important overall part of the drainage for the entire area and represent 27% of the total flow capacity of the entire system. The plan is to construct a 4-gate structure that will have the required capacity, and will also have the modern functionality needed in this situation. There will be some modifications to the design, which will allow better operation of the gates, especially during disaster situations and power failures. This project will protect over 200 homes, over 80 of which are currently insured.FEMA obligates funding for these projects directly to the State. It is the States responsibility to ensure that eligible sub-grantees receive these awards. Following the States review process and upon receipt of appropriate documentation, they will provide funds to the sub-grantees on a reimbursable basis.###
10.05.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will be hosting an informational program for high school students in the 2nd Congressional District to learn more about the United States Service Academies and the application process. Representatives from each of the academies will be present to talk to students and their parents as well as answer questions. Congressman Poe and his staff will also explain the application process, criteria and important upcoming deadlines.Service to God, country and people are the most honorable accomplishments and contributions that a human being can make in life, said Poe. I want to enlist all parents, educators and community leaders to encourage young talent to submit an application for consideration to one of our military academies. This program will give an overview of what the academies offer and an insight into earning a coveted spot in the chain of command for the most respected and best trained military in the world. For additional information regarding the application process, please visit our website www.house.gov/poe. WHEN: Saturday, October 14, 2006 1pm 3pm WHERE: Lee College Baytown Tucker Hall 200 Lee Drive @ Texas Avenue Baytown, Texas MAP: http://www.lee.edu/maps.asp ###
10.04.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the City of Beaumont Housing Authority was awarded $20,000,000 from the Department of Housing (HUD) through the HOPE VI Revitalization grant program.Congressman Poe contacted HUD Secretary Jackson on behalf of the City of Beaumont Housing Authority earlier this year in support of their application for funds. He stressed to Secretary Jackson the need for funding in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Jefferson County has a tremendous need for affordable housing and it is great to see this project become a reality, said Poe. Southeast Texas housing needs were intensified when Louisiana residents fled east from Hurricane Katrina and made worse when the area was hit by Hurricane Rita. I applaud HUD for recognizing the needs of the Beaumont Housing Authority and look forward to the benefits it will bring to our community and its residents.The Beaumont Housing Authority (BHA) will use the grant to replace the existing 195 public housing units at Magnolia Gardens with 149 public housing units. The agency also has plans to build 148 market-rate rental units, 46 affordable rental units and 37 market-rate homeownership units. Some of the new housing being constructed will be on the former fairgrounds site, less than a mile from Magnolia Gardens. BHA will also build a new community center with a computer center that will give residents easy access to free, unlimited access to the Internet and software programs as well as free computer training and online job search assistance.More information about HUD and its programs is available on the Internet at www.hud.gov.###
10.02.2006	WASHINGTON, DC Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced that he filed a Resolution calling on Congress to enact comprehensive border security and immigration enforcement legislation to ease the burden on State and local governments who are absorbing enormous costs to deal with illegal immigration. With wide bipartisan support, H. Res. 1074 seeks to support these states and local governments nationwide who are taking steps on their own and passing laws to discourage illegal immigration in their communities. Our state and local governments today are shouldering more and more of the burden of illegal immigration because of the failed policies of the federal government to effectively secure the nations borders, said Poe. While Congress continues to debate the best ways to secure the border and deal with illegal immigration, the states and local governments are being forced to act. We must support them in these efforts and call on the federal government to quickly pass comprehensive border security and enforcement legislation to assist them.H. Res 1074 acknowledges State legislatures, such as those in Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia that have introduced legislation to enhance the ability of State and local agencies to discourage illegal immigration and to ease the burden placed on the States. It also recognizes local governments, such as those in Hazelton, Pennsylvania, Palm Bay County, Florida, Riverside, New Jersey, Riverside, California, and Suffolk County, New York that have introduced city ordinances to enhance the ability of local governments to discourage illegal immigration. Congressman Poe is a member of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus and serves on the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism Subcommittee. For more info in Congressman Poes views on illegal immigration, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
09.29.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today Congress overwhelmingly passed the FY 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to fund border security initiatives. Congressman Poe voted to support this appropriations bill with a watchful eye on the provision that allows for an extension to the original January 1, 2008 deadline to require international travelers coming to the United States to have a passport or passport equivalent.This bill contains some very good legislation to fund security initiatives along our borders, but it also contains a provision to delay the implementation of a Passport Only policy for entering our country that is critical to the security and safety of the United States. I am disappointed that this language was added by the Senate and I fought hard to remove it from the final Conference agreement. However, I plan to hold the Department of Homeland Security to their word and push to have this policy in place well before the June 2009 extension. Congress must aggressively follow this issue and demand periodic updates from DHS on the status. Without quickly addressing our flawed entry policy, we leave the back door wide open for illegals to continue to violate our laws.The bill allows for an extension to the original January 1, 2008 deadline to June 1, 2009 to require international travelers coming to the United States to have a passport or passport equivalent. The extension will allow the continuation of more than 8000 types of identification to be used at our points of entry for those entering the United States from Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean Islands. It is the strong recommendation of the 9/11 Commission that passports be used for everyone entering the United States and Immigration and Customs agents at the border point out the impossibilities of authenticating thousands of documents at our points of entry.The objective is to force people to use the legal points of entry to come to our country, but we must put an end to the anything goes identification policy, said Poe. My legislation, the Passport for All Act, will do just that by requiring anyone entering the United States to have a passport. I am a strong supporter of shutting down our open borders and I fully intend to see this loop hole eliminated without any further delay.Among many provisions in the $34.8 billion Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, $2.27 billion will be designated for additional border patrol; $1.2 billion for technology, infrastructure, fencing and barriers in designated areas along the southern border; $4.2 billion for Immigration and Customs (ICE); $1.38 billion for ICE detention operations; and $28.2 million to assist state and local efforts in enforcing immigration laws.For more information on the Passport for All Act, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe. For additional measures included in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, http://appropriations.house.gov/.###
09.28.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that his legislation to rename the Cleveland, Texas, post office as the Lance Corporal Robert A. Martinez Post Office Building has gained Congressional approval. H.R. 5108 will now go to the Senate for full approval.I applaud this Congress for joining me in honoring one of Texas fallen heroes, Lance Cpl. Robert A. Martinez, said Poe. This is a fitting tribute to a Marine who made the ultimate sacrifice for his country. Robbie is a heroic representative of the State of Texas and an honorable defender of liberty and freedom.Lance Cpl. Martinez graduated from Cleveland High School in 2003. A pitcher for the baseball team, his goal was to attend college and become a coach. Those plans were put on hold, however, as Martinez felt a deep need to answer the call of duty. At the age of 17, before beginning his senior year, Martinez pre-enlisted in the United States Marine Corps. He left for basic training two days after graduation.Lance Cpl. Martinez spent seven months on the Syrian border in 2004, and returned to Iraq in 2005. On Thursday, December 1, 2005, Martinez and nine other Marines were killed in action when a roadside bomb exploded. Lance Cpl. Robert A. Martinez, of the Second Battalion, Seventh Marine Regiment, First Marine Division, was only 20 years of age.###
09.27.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that his resolution commending the United Kingdom for their efforts in the Global War on Terror passed the Untied States House of Representatives, 412-3.Now more than ever, the United States needs allies to ensure freedom and democracy are victorious over extremism, said Poe. Five years after September 11, 2001, there are no shortage of reminders that we must remain vigilant in the War on Terror. Our intelligence, law enforcement and military communities are engaged in this effort, but they are not alone. We must honor those who fight beside us in the defense of liberty.Last month, United Kingdom authorities foiled a plot to detonate explosives on several trans-Atlantic flights. This plan, had it been carried out, would have resulted in unimaginable tragedy. However, due to the actions of the British intelligence and law enforcement communities, disaster was averted and countless lives were saved.###
09.21.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted YES to three key pieces of legislation that will focus on enhancing border security, strengthening enforcement, and ensuring the safety of the American people. Border security is the number one issue in our country, said Poe. The American people have spoken loud and clear about their desire to shut down the border. I will continue to be an advocate in Washington to secure our borders, protect the dignity of our country and preserve our culture. If we continue to turn our head to the invasion of our country, we will cease to be a country. These pieces of legislation will send a strong message that we are going to enforce our immigration laws and individuals violating them will be held accountable.H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act of 2006 Detaining Dangerous Illegal Immigrants. The bill allows the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to detain dangerous illegal immigrants beyond 6 months if their release would threaten national security, threaten the safety of the community, or have serious adverse foreign policy consequences. Removing Illegal Immigrant Gang Members. The bill allows DHS to detain and deport illegal immigrants who are members of a gang and bar them from receiving asylum or temporary protected status. H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006 Ending Catch & Release. The bill ends an injunction dating from the El Salvadoran civil war of the 1980s which effectively prevents DHS from placing Salvadorans in expedited removal proceedings. DHS is using expedited removal to remove other non-Mexican illegal immigrants who are apprehended along the Southern border in order to end the policy of catch and release and this bill would authorize DHS to treat all illegal immigrants the same. Enhancing State & Local Law Enforcement Authority. It clarifies that states and local law enforcement are authorized to voluntarily investigate, identify, apprehend, arrest, detain, and transfer to federal custody aliens in the U.S. in order to assist in the enforcement of the immigration laws. Prosecuting Smuggling Offenses. The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the Attorney General should adopt uniform guidelines for the U.S. Attorneys office for prosecuting smuggling offenses and authorize additional personnel from FYs 2008-2013 to prosecute such cases.H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006 Establishing Penalties for Border Tunnels. The bill establishes criminal penalties of up to 20 years imprisonment for persons who knowingly construct or finance the construction of an unauthorized tunnel across a U.S. international border. ###
09.20.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006 gained Congressional approval, 228-196. The Federal Election Integrity Act will require everyone voting in the 2008 federal elections to present a valid photo ID before casting their ballots.It is the duty and the right of every American citizen to vote, said Poe. However, we must be sure that the person casting the ballot is in fact an American citizen. You must present a photo ID for just about every service you receive today from cashing a check to boarding a plane, the integrity of our election process should be held to at least the same standards.The bill also requires that by 2010, individuals voting in a federal election must present a photo ID that certifies that they are citizens. Currently to vote in elections, individuals swear under penalty of perjury that they are a citizen and have the right to vote. In 1985, it was reported by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (formerly INS) that 25,000 to 40,000 illegal and legal aliens were registered to vote in violation of law.###
09.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in support of the Secure Fence Act today that passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 283-138. The Secure Fence Act will strengthen border security by providing additional barriers and fencing in designated areas along the southern border. In addition, the legislation provides for state-of-the-art technology and surveillance creating a virtual fence that deploys cameras, ground sensors, unmanned aerial vehicles, and integrated surveillance technology across the entire border region. Congressman Poe spoke in favor of this bill and encouraged other members to fully support a section of the legislation that calls for the Border Patrol to define their policies on apprehending illegals. Our Border Patrol agents in the field need a clear and all-inclusive pursuit policy to show that we are serious on defending our border, said Poe. Anything less makes our Border Patrol agents nothing more than highly specialized and trained Wal-Mart greeters. Poe supports using fences and technology on the front lines in securing our borders, but cautioned that it must be done so with the full support of the federal government. Building a fence is not enough to stop people from coming to our country illegally, said Poe. Barriers are useless if the government doesnt have the will to enforce the law. While I support every effort to secure our borders, the only real way to stop people from coming here is to eliminate their opportunities. Otherwise they will cut through, tunnel under or go around in defiance to get to the United States. A fence will be seen as a federal failure and waste of taxpayer money if we fail to enforce all immigration laws across the board.Congressman Poe serves on the House International Relations Committee, Terrorism Subcommittee and a member of the Congressional Border Security Caucus. Congressman Poe has traveled to the Texas/Mexico border five times in the last year meeting with border sheriffs and local residents from Del Rio to McAllen. For more information, floor speeches, and editorials written by Congressman Poe on the issue of illegal immigration, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
09.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently introduced The Reservist's Employer Support Paycheck Enhancement Act of 2006 to support Americans serving in the National Guard and Reserve when they are deployed on active duty. This bill provides incentives for employers to financially help Guard and Reservists that are called to active duty by providing employers a tax credit for their payroll costs when they continue to pay up to their full civilian salary. In addition, it also will provide a tax credit for the cost of a replacement employee while the Guard or Reservist is deployed.Today, Congressman Poe announced that fellow Texan, Chet Edwards has signed on as a cosponsor. I want to thank Rep. Poe for introducing legislation to support our Guard and Reserve soldiers as they are called up to active duty service, said Edwards, ranking member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs. Congress must work together in a bipartisan fashion to ease the financial burden on our Guard and Reserve troops and their families so that they are not penalized for answering the call to serve their country during a time of war.I am extremely pleased to welcome Rep. Chet Edwards as a cosponsor of this legislation, said Poe. With his distinguished reputation on veteran issues we will get this bill passed and encourage more companies to help our troops as the Global War on Terror continues. It is important that our brave young men and women serving our country have peace of mind that their families are taken care of at home.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Tax, Finance, and Exports. For more information regarding H.R. 5751, visit http://thomas.loc.gov or for more information on Congressman Poe, visit www.house.gov/poe. ###
09.13.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) applauds Congress for passing House Resolution 994, commemorating the sacrifices made by those defending our country and remembering those that were lost in the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centers and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001.Congressman Poe issued the following statement on the 5th Anniversary of 9/11:It has been said that the actions of a few can change the course of a country. On September 11, 2001, the murderous attacks on our country did just that. Fortunately, the United States has grown stronger from that tragic day and is leading the fight against terror around the world. We must remain committed to ending terrorism and holding those responsible for supporting it accountable. Our country is safer today than we were five years ago, but we must never forget those who lost their lives and those on the front lines fighting to protect our freedom.Congressman Poe serves on the International Relations Committee, Terrorism Subcommittee and member of the Congressional War on Terror Team. For more information regarding Congressman Poe, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
09.08.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces today that he is initiating a delegation letter to the Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee requesting the authorization of $900 million be included in the final Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) Conference Report for the expansion and maintenance of the Sabine-Neches Waterway (SNWW). The total cost of the project will be $900 million; $625 million will come from federal funds, $225 million from non-federal funds. Congressman Poe serves on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; Waterways Subcommittee. Fellow committee member Congressman Charles Boustany (LA-07), whose Congressional district resides along the SNWW in Louisiana, joins Poe in the request for funding. It is anticipated that the Conference Report will be finalized by the end of September.The expansion of the Sabine-Neches Waterway is vital to the economy and security of the entire country, said Poe. As the largest port for military cargo, the Port of Beaumont and the Sabine-Neches Waterway should be recognized as the energy and military gateway to the United States. Hurricane season is in full swing and should remind us that we need to have viable options in shifting cargo along the Gulf Coast. Expanding the Sabine-Neches Waterway to todays standards is critical to maintaining our economy and meeting our growing energy needs. I gladly welcome the support of my colleague Congressman Boustany, the people of his district have as much to gain from this expansion as mine.Basic Facts on Sabine-Neches Waterway: Sabine-Neches Waterway is the largest military port in the US based on tonnage Sabine-Neches Waterway is the 4th largest waterway by tonnage Sabine-Neches Waterway is the second largest importer of crude oil in the US 20-30% of all military jet fuel is produced on the Sabine-Neches Waterway Sabine-Neches Waterway is the port of entry for the crude oil supplied to the Hackberry and Bighill strategic petroleum reserves. 18 million tons of cargo moved through terminals along the Sabine-Neches Waterway 83,692 jobs in TX and LA $877.7 million of direct wages and salaries $853 million of federal taxes generated by Sabine-Neches Waterway $426.5 million in state and local taxes Basic Facts on Fuel Supply related to the Sabine-Neches Waterway:There are 4 major refineries in Beaumont-Port Arthur area that represent 8% of the domestic refining capacity east of the Rocky Mountains: ExxonMobil, Motiva, Total & Valero There are 3 large crude unloading terminals: Sunoco, Chevron and Oiltanking There are 3 major pipelines: Colonial Pipeline 2 million barrels/day serving LA, AL, MS, GA, TN, SC, NC, VA, MD, DE and NJ. Sabine-Neches refineries supply 15% of the product in the system. Explorer Pipeline 650k barrels/day serving TX, OK, MI, IL and ID. Sabine-Neches refineries supply 13% of the product in the system. TEPPCO Pipeline 330k barrels/day serving LA, AR, MO, IL, KY, ID & OH. Sabine-Neches refineries supply 32% of the product in the system. ###
09.07.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following statement regarding U.S. Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean. Ramos and Compean were prosecuted by the U.S. Attorneys Office for their actions last year, in attempting to apprehend a Mexican drug smuggler who brought nearly 800 pounds of marijuana across our border, and face 25 years in prison.It seems to me the U.S. government is on the wrong side of the law. The battle on the border is growing more violent everyday and our law enforcement officials need to know that they have the full support of the U.S. government in enforcing our immigration laws. It is appalling to me that our own government would give immunity to an illegal drug smuggler in their effort to prosecute these two brave young men who were simply doing their job protecting the dignity of our borders and our country. I urge President Bush to extend a full pardon to both of the agents.###
09.07.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted to protect the individual property rights of American ranchers and farmers and send a message that Congress does not have the right to dictate how they do business and care for their animals. Congressman Poe voted against H.R. 503, a bill that would limit the rights of horse owners by banning horse slaughter in the United States. Despite Poes efforts, the measure passed 263-146.I generally oppose the slaughter of horses for human consumption in our country or any other, said Poe. However, this bill does not address that singular issue. Like many bills before Congress, there are various other items that are included in a bill that alter the main purpose. This bill encroaches on the property rights of American farmers and ranchers and eliminates their right to decide what is best for the animal when their quality of life has deteriorated. I appreciate that this is an emotional issue, but a closer look at the consequences of this bill does not ultimately benefit the animal and the taxpayer should not be forced to foot the bill for their disposal.Steve Pringle, Legislative Affairs Director for the Texas Farm Bureau, applauded Congressman Poes vote, The Congress demonstrated on Thursday just how out of touch it is with agriculture and rural America. Fortunately, a majority of the members of the Texas Delegation, and specifically Congressman Ted Poe, have listened to reason and facts, and voted to oppose H.R. 503."H.R. 503 would make it illegal for a horse owner to sell their animal to a slaughter house. However, consequences of this policy would cause horse farmers to prolong the lives of sick and feeble animals, or worse release them to fend for themselves due to the ongoing costs of caring for the animal. In addition, reports show that eliminating processing as an end-of-life option will flood horse adoption farms and leave many horses starved, neglected or abandoned.###
09.05.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces that the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs (TDHCA) has awarded $30.5 million in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds to four Councils of Government to address the unmet non-housing needs of 29 counties devastated by Hurricane Rita. The South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC), located in Beaumont will receive the largest portion of funding - $12.5 million. The funding is designated to repair or replace critical public infrastructure facilities damaged by last years storm. This is more good news on the heels of the recent announcement by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to further their financial commitment to help rebuild southeast Texas, said Poe. The South East Texas Regional Planning Commission and local leaders have done an excellent job of working with congressional and state officials to make their needs known. I look forward to continuing our efforts to see that southeast Texas gets everything we need to rebuild our communities. The four grant awards also include $3.7 million to the Houston-Galveston Area Council (H-GAC), headquartered in Houston; $12.2 million to Deep East Texas Council of Governments (DETCOG), which has offices in Jasper and Lufkin; and $2.1 million to East Texas Council of Governments (ETCOG), headquartered in Kilgore.In August, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) approved $428,671,849 in federal disaster funding through a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for the State of Texas. However, this funding was allocated from the first round of CDBG funding awarded to the State of Texas in January of this year. Regulations for the second round of funding are expected to be made this week. For more information on the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, please visit their website: www.tdhca.state.tx.us.###
08.24.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today his staff will continue conducting regularly scheduled open office hours around the district through the month of October. These office hours will provide the constituents of Texas 2nd Congressional District with one-on-one access to constituent services and a venue for discussing issues with a representative for the Congressman.Issue topics and casework questions should be Federal in jurisdiction such as Social Security, the Medicare Prescription Drug Program, Veteran Affairs, and Immigration.SpringBarbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood Dr.September 7, 200610:00am 12:30pmClevelandCity Council Chamber203 E Boothe StSeptember 7, 20062:00pm 5pmLa PorteLa Porte Community Library600 South BroadwaySeptember 14, 200610:00am 12:00pmCrosbyHarris County Public Library135 Hare RoadSeptember 14, 20061:30pm 4:00pmDaytonDayton Chamber of Commerce212 Bryan StSeptember 21, 20069:00am 12:00pmLibertyLiberty Dayton Chamber Office1801 Trinity StSeptember 21, 20061:00pm 4:00pm###
08.18.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved $428,671,849 in federal disaster funding through a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for the State of Texas. This grant will aid in the continuing recovery and rebuilding efforts as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.I applaud Secretary Jacksons efforts in Jefferson County, said Poe. This funding proves that the federal government is aware Hurricane Katrina wasnt the only devastating force last year. I would also like to thank the people of Jefferson County for persevering through the toughest of times. Rita was a devastating hurricane that impacted lives, homes, businesses and schools in my district. This funding will help those affected by the hurricane look to the future and have hope that their communities will one day resemble the ones that existed before the hurricane.HUD is allocating the following CDBG assistance to four Gulf Coast states:Texas $428,671,849Alabama $21,225,574Florida $100,066,518Mississippi $423,671,849TOTAL $973,000,000According to HUD, funding allocations were determined by the following criteria: HUD compiled data from FEMA and the Small Business Administration on the extent and concentration of housing damage in each State. HUD staff then discounted insurance payments and FEMA repair grants. Each state was then invited to provide their data on remaining recovery needs not accounted for in HUD's data including the unmet needs of businesses, evacuees, and infrastructure. In late July, HUD met with representatives from Alabama, Florida, Mississippi and Texas to discuss each state's unmet needs and priorities for recovery.Congressman Poe hosted HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson this spring during his tour of the Hurricane damaged region. Congressman Poe hosted a roundtable meeting allowing local officials an opportunity to directly address Secretary Jackson on the importance of HUD funding for the short and long term recovery of Southeast Texas.CDBG funds are allocated to the State of Texas and administered through their agencies. For more information about HUD and its programs, please visit their website at www.hud.gov.###
08.17.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) was one of four Members of Congress to participate in the field hearing by the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Investigations in Houston earlier this week. The focus of the hearing was to hear from law enforcement, state, county and local officials, as well as citizens on the effects of crimes committed by illegal immigrants on their communities and lives.The failure by the federal government to protect our borders has a direct impact on our local communities and poses a grave threat to our national security, said Poe. Testimony presented at this hearing also showed that an unsecured border jeopardizes the personal safety of all Americans. The information presented at this hearing was important to our future and I urge all of my colleagues to take notice of what is going on in our country.As the founder and chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, Congressman Poe took special interest in the testimony by the victims of crime. Texas State Trooper Steven Stone testified about his violent encounter with an illegal immigrant during a routine traffic stop in Tyler, Texas. Trooper Stone was shot six times by Francisco Salcedo who had been deported twice prior to his attack on Stone. Miraculously, Stone survived the attack and was able to tell his story at the hearing. The failure to enforce our borders nearly cost this brave young man his life, said Poe. The lawlessness on the border doesnt stop there, this took place some 300 miles from the Texas/Mexico border. The violence spilling over our unprotected borders is a threat to us all.The Committee also heard from the parents of Felicia Ruiz as they testified about the brutal murder of their daughter at the hands of a gang member who had been in our country illegally since he was a child. Felicia refused to join their gang and in retaliation was viscously beaten, stabbed over 30 times and left for dead in a pile of dirt. The suspect was taken into custody for questioning in Felicias murder, but was never asked of his citizenship status. Shortly after walking out of the police station he fled to his native country of Venezuela where he still remains free today.Not everyone coming to the United States illegally is coming for a better life, said Poe. Some are coming to destroy ours. Todays testimony proved that the blatant disregard for our laws doesnt stop with the illegal entry into our country; lawlessness breeds more lawlessness. On behalf of these victims, and the many others like them, I will continue to work to put an end to the illegal entry into our country. I support legal immigration, but Americans should not lose their lives because the federal government does not have the will to secure our borders.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism Subcommittee, the Congressional Border Security Caucus and founder and chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus.###
08.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) traveled to Hidalgo County this weekend to meet with Hidalgo County Sheriff, Lupe Trevino, and his staff. Congressman Poe got a first hand account of the situation along our borders from the continuous flow of illegal immigrants into the area. Hidalgo County is the 6th most populated county in the State of Texas with approximately 650,000 residents and an additional 150,000 illegal residents. Among the 150,000 illegals in the area, the criminal alien has become the greatest threat to local residents and expense to the sheriffs department.Sheriff Trevino and his deputies are faced with problems of policing illegal criminals due to the lack of enforcement along our borders by the federal government, said Poe. The people of Hidalgo County are paying the price, often with their lives, as a result of a wide open border.Congressman Poe was given a tour of the entire county along the river area which varied from open access to Mexico via boats and jet skis in a federal park, farm lands and residential areas that border the river, to thick brush locals that block visibility of any kind to the river. I encourage members of Congress to come to the Texas border and see the terrain for themselves, said Poe. Texas has a water border that is vastly different from other border states and requires different solutions for enforcement from one end of the state to the other.Congressman Poe learned of a recent crime spree that two illegal teenagers went on in McAllen. In the span of 12 hours, the illegal teens raped, assaulted and robbed numerous people in the area before they were apprehended. The Sheriffs Department is now faced with identifying these suspects, trying them and incarcerating them at the cost of the U.S. taxpayer. According to Sheriff Trevino, this is not uncommon and violent crimes by illegals are increasing. The illegal thug crossing into our country to solely commit crimes is a growing problem, said Trevino. In south Texas, drug shipments are not talked about in the hundreds, we talk about them in the thousands. The failure to protect our borders is a major concern to our safety.Congressman Poes latest visit to the Texas/Mexico border was sparked by a widely under-reported incident in which U.S. law enforcement agencies took on a barrage of gunfire from the Mexican side of the border. In early July, Hidalgo County Sheriff department and Border Patrol agents responded to a call for help along the Rio Grande River. According to Sheriff Trevino, deputies were forced to take immediate cover against 300-400 rounds of automatic gunfire from a ranch across the border. News reports stated that the incident was a result of a drug cartel taking over the Mexican ranch. However, the two boys, both American citizens, described the suspects as Mexican law enforcement.This was a blatant attack on our country, said Poe. We protect the borders of other countries around the world, it makes no sense to me why we dont protect our own. We are the most powerful nation the world has ever known and our borders are a war zone where local law enforcement is fired at from a foreign country without the slightest concern from the rest of the United States. We must take control of our borders and our security.Congressman Poe will participate in Congressional field hearings on immigration Wednesday, August 16, 2006, in Houston. Panelists include families of victims of violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants.###
08.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) applauded the British intelligence community this morning for preventing a devastating terrorist attack on innocent people. Authorities foiled a plan to detonate bombs on airplanes from Britain bound for the United States.Todays near tragedy should be an eye-opening reminder that the international community must continue to aggressively fight to end terrorism throughout the world, said Poe. The threat on the United States remains just as great today as it did prior to 9/11. I applaud the efforts of the British intelligence forces for their vigilant efforts in uncovering these deadly plots, however the fight to end terrorism is far from over. The United States continues to lay out the welcome mat to terrorists with our open border policy. The federal government must have the will to protect our nation and secure our borders. Terrorism will continue to rear its ugly head and Americans can not afford to let down our guard nor our borders.Congressman Poe serves on the House International Relations Committee, Terrorism and Non Proliferation Subcommittee; House Transportation Committee, Aviation Subcommittee and the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus.###
07.28.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today open office hours in cities across the district each month. Members of his staff will be conducting regularly scheduled open office hours beginning in the month of August. These regular office hours in various cities will provide constituents in Texas 2nd Congressional District with one-on-one access to constituent services and a venue for discussing issues with a representative for the Congressman in a location closer to home.Issue topics and casework questions should be Federal in jurisdiction such as Social Security, Veteran Affairs, and Immigration. Issues concerning state and local governments should be directed towards those entities. For more information regarding services provided by Congressman Poes office, please visit his website at www.house.gov/poe.SpringBarbara Bush Library6817 Cypresswood Drive1st Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 3rd10am 1pm ClevelandCity Council Chamber203 E Boothe St1st Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 3rd2pm 5pmBaytownBaytown Chamber of Commerce1300 Rollingbrook, Suite 4001st Friday of Every MonthStarting August 4th9am 12pmLa PorteHarris County Public Library600 South Broadway2nd Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 10th10am 12 pmCrosbyHarris County Public Library135 Hare Road2nd Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 10th1:30pm 5pmDaytonDayton Chamber of Commerce212 Bryan St3rd Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 17th9am 12pmLibertyLiberty Dayton Chamber Office1801 Trinity St3rd Thursday of Every MonthStarting August 17th1pm 4pm###
07.26.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) introduced legislation this week to support Americans serving in the National Guard and Reserve when they are deployed on active duty. The Reservist's Employer Support Paycheck Enhancement Act of 2006 provides incentives for employers to financially help Guard and Reservists that are called to active duty by providing employers a tax credit for their payroll costs when they continue to pay up to their full civilian salary. In addition, it also will provide a tax credit for the cost of a replacement employee while the Guard or Reservist is deployed.Some employers have stepped up to the plate and continued to give their employees the pay difference so their families do not suffer undue hardships, said Poe. However, employers are not required to do this and the number of companies that practice this is small and dwindling. Many of these employers have good intentions toward supporting our military, but may not be able to financially keep up these policies for the duration of a long deployment. This bill will help make that possible.Many members of the National Guard and Reserve must leave their day jobs after being called up to active duty. Over the past several years, there has been an increase in the number of Guard members and Reservists called up to serve on active duty in Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo. In many cases, their full military pay is often less than their full civilian pay, said Poe. This creates a hardship for their families who are forced to make ends meet on much less pay. This bill will encourage more companies to help our troops and will help to continue the support of companies that already provide this service as the Global War on Terror continues.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Tax, Finance, and Exports. For more information regarding H.R. 5751, visit http://thomas.loc.gov or for more information on Congressman Poe, visit www.house.gov/poe.###
07.25.2006	Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today the Adam Walsh Protection and Child Safety Act gained the approval of both Houses of Congress and will become law with President Bushs signature Thursday, July 27, 2006, on the 25th anniversary of the kidnapping and murder of Adam Walsh in Florida. This comprehensive bi-partisan legislation was designed to protect children from sex offenders and other criminals. This measure includes all of the provisions offered by Congressman Poe in his first bill, the Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) by creating a National Sex Offender Registry that will keep track offenders across state lines. In addition, this legislation includes a Training and Technology Amendment to provide law enforcement with the funding and latest technologies to deal with internet crimes against children.The passage of the Adam Walsh Bill in the House and Senate has sent a powerful message to this country, said Poe. To parents and their children, we state that we will protect you. To predators, we state that you will no longer be able to run and hide. Your reigns of terror are over.The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, formerly known as the Child Safety Act of 2005, was drafted in response to the recent kidnappings, rapes, and murders of several children like Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, and Jetseta Gage. The Adam Walsh Protection and Child Safety Act addresses numerous elements of crime against children including: violent crimes, sexual crimes and exploitation, as well as protection of foster and adopted children. Inspired by Congressman Poes Child Predator Act, this bill will feature components such as a concrete definition of a child predator, the escalation of non-compliance with registration requirements to a federal felony, community notification for all sex offenders (including child predators) who enter a new community, a free online database accessible to law enforcement and parents, and specifications for the timely update of this database even for those sex offenders crossing state lines.Representative Poe co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and remains a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues. Congressman Poe serves on the Board of Directors for the National Childrens Alliance and The Childrens Assessment Center in Houston. Poe recently received the Champion of Social Change Award from the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault for his dedication on behalf of victims.###
07.20.2006	Congressman Poe voted in support of the Presidents first veto on the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research. Several pieces of legislation pertaining to the federal funding of stem cell research came before both Houses of Congress.The debate over stem cell research is a very passionate one, each side arguing beliefs based on faith and science, said Poe. The debate in Congress on stem cell research focused on the federal funding of such research. I do not believe that tax payer money should go to research that destroys human life. However, I am supportive of the funding and the advancement of ethical medical research from stem cells in which a human life is not destroyed in the process, such as adult stem cells.H.R. 810 Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005 This bill allows for federal funds to be used in the research of human embryonic stem cells. Amends the Public Health Service Act to provide for human embryonic stem cell research by allowing the Health and Human Services Department to conduct and support research that utilizes human embryonic stem cells, regardless of the date on which the stem cells were derived from a human embryo. The Bill was vetoed by President Bush, and failed to reach the 2/3 requirement to override the veto. Congressman Poe voted against the original bill and voted no to override the Presidents veto.S. 2754 - The Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act This bill pertains to the research of stem cells that are not derived from a human embryo, commonly known as adult stem cells. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop techniques for the isolation, derivation, production, or testing of stem cells that are capable of producing all or almost all of the cell types of the developing body and may result in improved understanding of treatments for diseases and other adverse health conditions, but are not derived from a human embryo. The bill failed to meet a 2/3 requirement, but did garner a majority of the House. The vote was 273-154 with Congressman Poe voting in favor.S. 3504 The Fetus Farming Prohibition Act of 2006 This bill prohibits the trafficking of human fetuses that were deliberately created to harvest stem cells. Amends the Public Health Service Act to prohibit any person or entity involved in interstate commerce from: (1) soliciting or knowingly acquiring, receiving, or accepting a donation of human fetal tissue knowing that a human pregnancy was deliberately initiated to provide such tissue; or (2) knowingly acquiring, receiving, or accepting tissue or cells obtained from a human embryo or fetus that was gestated in the uterus of a nonhuman animal. Imposes fines and/or imprisonment for violations of this Act. Passed both the House and Senate by unanimous vote. President Bush signed into law, July 19, 2006.###
07.19.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) voted in favor of legislation designed to strengthen and preserve traditional American values this week. These bills address the issues of Americans right to display the American Flag, the preservation of the traditional version of the Pledge of Allegiance, and the protection of the institution of marriage.H.R. 42 - The Freedom to Display the American Flag Act of 2005 States that a condominium association, cooperative association, or residential real estate management association may not adopt or enforce any policy, or enter into any agreement that would restrict or prevent an association member from displaying the U.S. flag on residential property. Passed the House by voice vote on June 18, 2006. It has also passed the Senate and is awaiting the Presidents signature to make it law.H.R. 2389 The Pledge Protection Act of 2005 Amends the Federal judicial code to deny jurisdiction to any Federal court, and appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court, to hear or decide any question pertaining to the interpretation of the Pledge of Allegiance or its validity under the Constitution. Congressman Poe is a cosponsor of this bill. It passed on June 19, 2006 by a vote of 260-167.H.J. Res. 88 The Marriage Protection Amendment Declares that: (1) marriage in the United States shall consist only of the union of a man and a woman; and (2) neither the U.S. Constitution nor the constitution of any state shall be construed to require that marriage or the legal incidents of marriage be conferred upon any other union. The resolution failed to meet the 2/3 requirement for a constitutional amendment but did garner a majority of the House. The vote was 236-187 with Congressman Poe voting in favor.###
07.13.2006	Humble, TX Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released the following letter to be read at a public hearing at Klein Collins High School Wednesday, June 12, 2006. The meeting was to discuss the impact of the construction of the F-2 segment of the Grand Parkway, the 12 mile F-2 segment planned to be constructed between State Highway 249 and Interstate 45. This will greatly impact the Spring, Klein, and Champions communities that make up part of Congressman Poes 2nd Congressional District.Letter from Congressman Ted Poe:Because Congress is in session, I am in Washington, D.C. and unable to join you in person to voice my concerns about the Grand Parkway F2 segment and its impact on Spring residents.I encourage TxDOT to seriously listen to the feedback of these residents. They have legitimate concerns about a parkway that has the potential to change their lives. Many residents in the area were born here and many reside on property that was occupied by their forefathers. Because of this, I think it is important to realize that F-2 involves more than buying out someones home-it involves taking pieces of family histories.I am on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and understand that progress is a necessary component of any society. However, I think in certain cases, like this one, the negative impact on citizens cannot outweigh the benefit of that progress. Advances in the name of transportation should not be made without seriously considering the implications on those whose lives will be changed forever.Transportation is important to the business community. However, the system cannot run over the homes and lives of affected residents. If my constituents cannot live with the placement of F-2 and its impact on their lives-than I cannot be in support of the proposed route. Small group and personal gain shouldnt be put ahead of the citizens of Spring.Spring is a vital and thriving community and I am proud to represent its residents in Washington, D.C.For more information regarding Congressman Poe visit his website at www.house.gov/poe.###
07.10.2006	As a member of the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) participated in field hearings held in San Diego, California, and Laredo, Texas, last week. These hearings are a result of recent requests by Congressman Poe and other Members of Congress to give the Committee a first-hand account of illegal immigration along our southern borders.The phrase it gets western after dark best describes the situation on the Texas-Mexico border, said Poe. I have been to Laredo and heard the gunfire that erupts at night across the border in Mexico and the dangers that Americans along our borders and beyond face due to the lack of border security. These hearings gave the local people that deal with the day-to-day dangers flooding our country the opportunity to directly address Members of Congress. said Poe. The common consensus from both hearings is the federal government is not doing their job, and our country is at risk.In both hearings, witnesses expressed their concern over the threat of terrorism and the intertwined association with the drug cartels that control all the drug and human trafficking across the southern border. Testimony proved that terrorist cells are forming south of the border and waiting in the wings to take advantage of our wide open borders, said Poe. Zapata County Sheriff Sigi Gonzales told of intelligence gathered that suggests terrorist cells are in Mexico, learning the Spanish language and assimilating into their culture to easily pass into the United States. Webb County Sheriff Rick Flores supported this information and urged that our lack of border enforcement is a serious threat to our security.Prior to the hearings, Congressman Poe has twice traveled to the Texas-Mexico border to meet with local law enforcement and residents to discuss issues of illegal immigration and the threat of terrorism. These hearings provided an opportunity for designated local leaders, law enforcement and individuals to address Members of Congress in their respective areas giving them a local account of the situation in their border cities. This is not a partisan issue, it is an American issue and it is time to put an end to the illegal intrusion of over 5000 people a day coming into our country, regardless of their intentions, said Poe. Illegal is illegal.Congressman Poe serves on the International Relations Committee, Terrorism and Non Proliferation Subcommittee and Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus.###
06.27.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced that the United States House of Representatives has passed H.R. 4890; the Line Item Veto Act of 2006. The Line Item Veto will help our efforts to curtail government spending run amuck, said Poe.Once enacted in to law, the Line Item Veto Act of 2006 would amend the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to give the President the authority to withhold funds or to suspend execution of direct spending for up to 180 days. At that point, both Houses of Congress would be allowed an expedited timetable by which they can either vote to override the Presidents veto or allow the items to be struck from the bill. These actions by the President are only to be used for deficit reduction, not to offset other increases in spending. When the President is able to require Members of Congress to stand by their pet projects and spending provisions the American people will be able to see who is squandering their hard earned money, said Poe. Too often do we see funding for projects not related to the general bill sneaked in and passed for the good of the entire bill, Poe added. The Line Item Veto will allow for lawmakers to fund specific projects and remove unrelated add-ons that would not pass on their own.For more information regarding H.R. 4890 go to http://thomas.loc.gov.###
06.27.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced that the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5638, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006. This bill will make certain provisions in the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 (EGTRRA) permanent. Without the passage of H.R. 5638, the estate tax repeal and all other provisions of EGTRRA would sunset on December 31, 2010. This would cause taxes placed on estates to revert back to their previous rates which were significantly higher. The current lower tax rate allows citizens who die to leave more to their beneficiaries, and less to the government. This is important to family owned businesses of all sizes, many were forced to sell their business because they couldnt pay the taxes when the owner died.The old saying goes that the only two certainties in life are death and taxes. Under an estate or death tax, small farmers and family minded individuals who saved their whole lives to leave something to their children have to pay taxes, die, and then pay taxes again. It is unconscionable that the government punishes people by taxing them in life and in death. I urge the Senate to pass this bill quickly so that President Bush can sign it in to law, Poe said.Important Provisions of H.R. 5638: Reunifies the estate, gift and generation-skipping transfer taxes -- giving individuals greater flexibility to make estate planning decisions during life. Increases the exemption amount to $5 million per person effective January 1, 2010. Reduces the rate of tax on estates up to $25 million to the capital gains tax rate (15 percent). Reduces the rate of tax on estates of $25 million or more to twice the capital gains rate (currently 30 percent). Simplifies estate tax planning by allowing married couples to take full advantage of the $5 million exemption by carrying over any unused exemption to the surviving spouse.For more information regarding H.R. 5638 visit the House Committee on Ways and Means website at http://waysandmeans.house.gov/.###
06.19.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) applauds the decision to leave the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Fund intact for victims. Last week, the State, Science, Justice, and Commerce (SSJC) Appropriations Subcommittee recommended not to rescind the VOCA Fund, as requested in the Presidents Budget. The Presidents FY 07 budget called for the removal of the rainy day surplus from the VOCA Fund and for it to be placed in the general treasury. This is not taxpayer money and it should not be used to fund other government programs, said Poe.Congressman Poe, founder and co-chair of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, led the fight to save the VOCA Fund in the House with members of the Victims Rights Caucus and the Congressional Womens Caucus. This is a victory for victims and victim advocates throughout the country, said Poe. The VOCA Fund serves nearly 4,400 victim service programs throughout the country and reaches nearly 3 million victims of crime per year. The Appropriations Subcommittee heard the protests of 111 Members of Congress, countless victim advocates and victims and has agreed the money should stay put.Established in 1984, the VOCA Fund is obtained through the collection of Federal criminal court fees and judgments; it is made up of zero taxpayer dollars. The VOCA Fund is then dispersed throughout various victims services and victims compensation programs across the country. Currently, there is $1.255 billion dollars in the Fund, with a cap placed at $625 million dollars to be allocated out each year. The remainder of the Fund, or the rainy day surplus as it is known in the victims field, exists to replenish the cap in the case that Federal criminal court fees and judgments do not meet the previous years expectations.Congressman Poe co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and remains a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues. Congressman Poe serves on the Board of Directors for the National Childrens Alliance in Washington, DC and The Childrens Assessment Center in Houston.###
06.16.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces that the Federal 287(g) Program will receive the full funding of $50 million requested by President Bush and promised by Chairman Hal Rogers of the Homeland Security Committee. This program will allow local law enforcement agencies to apply for federal funding to assist in enforcing immigration laws in their jurisdiction. This is a voluntary program and allows local agencies to take advantage of a variety of services and the flexibility to better serve their citizens. It is the lack of action on the part of the federal government that has allowed their jails and streets to swell with illegal immigrants, said Poe. This program will address the financial burden put on these agencies by giving them the much needed funding to assist in the effort to end illegal immigration in our country.Funding to the 287(g) Program includes: $15.5 million for staff and training at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) $23.1 million for local law enforcement to use the Law Enforcement Support Center (LESC), a federal database of immigration violators $11.4 million for the additional bed-space that will house illegal immigrants as a result of local arrestsEarlier this month, Congressman Poe proposed an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to fund the 287(g) Program. Chairman Rogers supported the amendment, but advised that the program would receive additional funding from another source at which time the amendment was defeated on the premise it would receive the full $50 million in the final bill.Congressman Poe continually meets with first responders throughout the 2nd Congressional District. Recently he held a local law enforcement meeting to discuss the problems surrounding illegal immigration on the local level. Each official at the table was given the opportunity to offer their opinions and suggestions on how to address the illegal immigration issue. In that round table discussion the general consensus was reached that there needs to be effective federal border enforcement before addressing the other issues. The lack of border security has created a tremendous burden on every level of law enforcement, Poe said. Currently, once illegal immigrants get past the Border Patrol there is a belief that they are home free that misconception is about to end. I encourage all local and state law enforcement agencies to take advantage of this program, end sanctuary policies in their cities and assist the federal government in enforcing our laws.Local law enforcement agencies interested in applying for funding under the 287(g) program are encouraged to visit the following links for more information or to obtain an information packet:General Info: http://www.ice.gov/partners/287g/Section287_g.htmFrequently Asked Questions: http://www.ice.gov/partners/287g/Section287g_faq.htmInformation Packet: http://www.ice.gov/exec/s287g/section287g_packet_request.asp###
06.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the bi-partisan Oberstar/LoBiondo/Poe/Culberson Amendment to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Bill passed the House, 291-137. Congressman Poes amendment halts the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) from allowing foreign control of U.S. airlines. American airlines should be just that, owned by Americans, said Poe. I applaud this Congress for putting Americans and the national security of the country first.This amendment will eliminate the Transportation Departments proposal to change existing law by allowing foreign interests to control all commercial aspects of a U.S. airlines operations, including fleet mix, routes, frequency, classes of service and pricing.Under DOTs plan, foreign interests could restructure the route system and fleet of a U.S. airline so that the U.S. airline become, in effect, a feeder for the international operations of a foreign carries. This could cost the American economy thousands of jobs, said Poe.In addition, the DOT policy would allow a foreign investor to take an airline out of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, or accomplish this indirectly by changing the fleet mix of a U.S. airline by reducing the number of large, wide body civilian aircraft that the Department of Defense needs during a time of war.Our military relies on commercial airlines to provide transportation for our troops when we deploy them overseas, said Poe. We cannot allow companies with allegiances to foreign governments to influence our ability to send troops where and when we choose. It is dangerous to outsource our national security.This bi-partisan legislation by Congressmen Poe, Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), James Oberstar (D-MN), and John Culberson (R-TX) is important in addressing the threat posed to American jobs and to Homeland Security by taking the control of U.S. airlines out of the hands of Americans.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee on Aviation, as well as the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee.###
06.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that $750,000 will be directly funded to Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) for Noise Mitigation in the Transportation Appropriations Budget for FY2007. This is the first time that a Member of Congress from the Houston area has requested that money be allocated directly and specifically for the IAH residential acquisition and sound insulation program.Congress appropriates funding every year to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) at which point they allocate money to individual airports based on their requests. IAH receives money for noise mitigation through the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) at the discretion of the FAA. The $750,000 secured by Congressman Poes request will not be subject to the FAAs determination and be above the normal discretionary allocations to IAH for noise mitigation.For the first time, we are embarking on new ground in government funding, said Poe. While $750,000 is a small amount in comparison to the needs of the community, I was able to secure this specifically for noise reduction at Intercontinental Airport and it is only the beginning.Congressman Poe has worked with local, state and federal representatives to address the airport noise issue by residents in northwest Houston communities. Poe established an Airport Noise Task Force made up of representatives from the FAA, area chambers of commerce, National Air Traffic Controllers Association, Continental Airlines, Houston Airport System, local officials, homeowners from noise impacted areas, CHARGE and the West 45 Noise Group. This has been a great opportunity for all sides of the table to come together and work towards solutions, said Poe. As a result of these meetings, like with most things, money was the bottom line. I am no stranger to innovative thinking and we learned this year that new doors can be opened and I will continue to find new solutions to old government problems.Congressman Poe serves on the House Transportation Committee, Aviation Subcommittee and established the Airport Noise Task Force in the district during his first year in Congress.###
06.13.2006	U.S. Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives passed an Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. The bill will raise the federal reimbursement rate for Hurricane Rita damage claims in Texas to a 90 percent federal, 10 percent state rate. The adjusted rate will save cities and counties in Texas effected by the hurricane approximately $200 million. In the first Hurricane Supplemental Bill, Texas was slated to receive only 75 percent funding for Hurricane Rita reimbursements, while Louisiana received 90 percent for damages caused by the same storm.The reimbursement funding level is retroactive and is available to local cities and counties through the governors office. The federal government has finally done right by the State of Texas and not let state lines determine funding for disaster relief, said Poe. The people of Southeast Texas have fought long and hard for this funding and I will continue that fight in Washington until all our needs are met.Also included in the Emergency Appropriations Supplemental is $5.2 billion in Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) for Gulf Coast States affected by hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. This funding will be allocated by Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Congressman Poe will appeal to Secretary Jackson to treat Texas equally in the allocation of these grants. Decision on the CDBG funding will likely be announced in the coming month, but subject to HUD.Congressman Poe has been instrumental in seeing that Southeast Texas is treated equally in the federal hurricane relief efforts. Most recently he sent a letter to the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee and the Speaker of the House supporting the 90-10 funding for the State of Texas in this bill. He hosted HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson and numerous other federal officials, including President George W. Bush, in Jefferson County to view the damage from Hurricane Rita first hand.The U.S. Senate is expected to vote on the Emergency Supplemental Bill in the following days. Upon approval it is sent to the President for his signature.###
06.13.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that he is sponsoring an amendment to the Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Bill that would stop the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) from allowing foreign control of U.S. airlines. American airlines should be just that, owned by Americans, said Poe.The Department of Transportation has no legal authority to change 65 years of law and policy that requires U.S. citizens have active control over a U.S. airline, said Poe. The Transportation Departments proposal would change existing law by allowing foreign interests to control all commercial aspects of a U.S. airlines operations, including fleet mix, routes, frequency, classes of service and pricing.Under DOTs plan, foreign interests could restructure the route system and fleet of a U.S. airline so that the U.S. airline become, in effect, a feeder for the international operations of a foreign carries. This could cost the American economy thousands of jobs, said Poe.In addition, the DOT policy would allow a foreign investor to take an airline out of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, or accomplish this indirectly by changing the fleet mix of a U.S. airline by reducing the number of large, wide body civilian aircraft that the Department of Defense needs during a time of war.Our military relies on commercial airlines to provide transportation for our troops when we deploy them overseas, said Poe. We cannot allow companies with allegiances to foreign governments to influence our ability to send troops where and when we choose. It is dangerous to outsource our national security.This bi-partisan amendment offered by Congressmen Poe, Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and James Oberstar (D-MN) is important in addressing the threat posed to American jobs and to Homeland Security by taking the control of U.S. airlines out of the hands of Americans.Congressman Poe serves on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Subcommittee on Aviation, as well as the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism and Nonproliferation Subcommittee.###
06.08.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces that H.R. 5254, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, overwhelmingly passed in the US House of Representatives yesterday. This bill is designed to streamline the process of building new refineries in the United States. This bill is one of several bills that Congressman Poe has supported in recent months to ease the burden of rising energy prices on the American people.We cannot have it both ways. We cant continue to be held hostage by foreign nations when it comes to energy and expect to pay a low price at the pump. If we want to lower energy prices and remove unnecessary foreign influences from our country we need to drill more and we need to expand our refining capacity; something we have not done in over 30 years, Poe said.Among other things, H.R. 5254, the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act, does the following: Establishes a federal coordinator to bring together all U.S. government agencies responsible for issuing permits, to help the permitting process move as expeditiously as possible; Gives priority in scheduling coordination to the Environmental Protection Agency, to ensure that the stringent environmental standards governing refinery creation are met; and Eliminates unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy in the permitting process.Other Legislation Sponsored by Rep. Poe: H.R. 3811 This bill will lift the moratorium on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. It specifically directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a sale of oil and gas leases on all submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico that are depicted in a specified document entitled "Eastern Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale." H.R. 4908 Opens up a large portion of the Gulf of Mexico known as Area 181 to drilling by instructing the Secretary of the Interior to offer the 181 Area of the Gulf of Mexico for oil and gas leasing no later than one year after enactment of this Act. (Currently drilling is only allowed off the coasts of Texas, Louisiana, and a portion of Alabama)Other Legislation Co-Sponsored By Rep. Poe: H.R. 4761 This bill will allow coastal States to receive significant portions of royalties from the sale of natural gas leases off their shores. Discretion with regard to spending is left up to the States, but this money could and should be used to support disaster relief efforts such as the recovery efforts from Hurricanes Rita and Katrina.###
06.05.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has approved grant funding totaling more than $5 million for Sabine Pass Independent School District, The City of Port Neches, and Jefferson County. These grants are portion of the federal disaster aid to reimburse the State of Texas for disaster relief and apply to specific requests made by local agencies.When local entities step up and act during a disaster such as Hurricane Rita they should be compensated for their efforts, said Poe. We still have a long way to go, but I am pleased to see that the Department of Homeland Security, through FEMA, is putting money back in the hands of the local community.The Department of Homeland Security described each grant as follows:Sabine Pass Independent School District Sabine Pass Independent School District, $2,558,487 for emergency protective measures to return facilities to pre-Hurricane Rita conditions, including power washing, dewatering, sanitizing, removal of wet and moldy damaged materials and drying out properties system wide.City of Port Neches City of Port Neches, $1,089,044 for various emergency protective measures taken in anticipation of the approach of Hurricane Rita.Jefferson County Jefferson County, $1,443,179 for emergency protective measures between Sept. 23 and Oct. 15, 2005, to manage traffic flow and aid in evacuating residents from Hurricane Rita.The State of Texas administers FEMAs Public Assistance program under which eligible and documented disaster-related costs are reimbursed to state and local government units. For more information regarding these grant programs and other Texas disaster recovery materials please visit www.fema.gov.###
06.02.2006	This week, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) met with local law enforcement officials across the 2nd Congressional District to discuss the problems surrounding illegal immigration on the local level. The lack of border security has created a tremendous burden on every level of law enforcement, Poe said. Their opinions should be heard on this issue. After all, it is the lack of action on the part of the Federal Government that has allowed their jails and streets to swell with illegal immigrants.Congressman Poe opened the meeting by discussing the Federal 287(g) program which provides funding for state and local law enforcement to train their officers in enforcing immigration laws and the H(u) Visa which allows an illegal immigrant to stay in the country temporarily as a victim of crime or witness to a crime. Congressman Poe recently offered an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that would add $41 Million in funding to the program. While the effort received resounding support, the amendment was defeated with the understanding the program is to receive full funding from other resources. This is a vital program for local and state law enforcement agencies, said Poe. I will continue to follow this promise to fund the 287(g) program closely and make sure that it receives the federal money it deserves.After Congressman Poe concluded his opening remarks the meeting continued with each official at the table offering their opinions and suggestions on how to address the illegal immigration issue. In that round table discussion the general consensus was reached that there needs to be effective federal border enforcement before addressing the other issues. The message was loud and clear, If we want to help local law enforcement we need to stop the flood of illegal immigrants coming in to this country, said Poe.Last month Congressman Poe made his second trip to the Texas/Mexico Border to assess the situation there. Illegal immigration is just that, illegal. I have discussed the problem with Sheriffs, Police Chiefs and land owners from Laredo to Houston and they all tell me the same thing. Getting control of the border must be our first priority, Poe said.Congressman Poe hosted meetings in Humble and Beaumont. On hand for the meetings were the Houston Police Chief Harold Hurtt, Harris County Pct. 4 Constable Ron Hickman, Harris County Pct. 4 Asst. Chief Deputy Larry Shiflet, Harris County Sheriff Chief Deputy Danny Billingsley, Cleveland Police Chief Ike Hines, Humble Police Chief Gary Warman, Baytown Police Chief Byron Jones, Liberty County Sheriff Greg Arthur, Liberty County Sheriff Chief Deputy Don Neyland, Liberty County Sheriff Captain Chip Fairchild, Spring ISD Police Chief Alan Bragg, North Harris Montgomery Community College District Police Department Director Richard Greggory, Humble ISD Police Chief Soloman Cook, Beaumont Fire Chief & Emergency Management Coordinator Micky Bertrand, Nederland Police Chief Darrel Bush, Beaumont Fire Marshall Jack Maddox, and Port Arthur Police Deputy Chief Raymond Clark.###
05.24.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) plans to introduce an amendment tomorrow to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Appropriations Act that will increase funding to state and local law enforcement agencies to assist federal authorities in enforcing immigration laws. Under the 287(g) program, funding is appropriated to train and authorize our state and local law enforcement in upholding federal law. Congressman Poes amendment would increase funding to this program by $41 million.It is time that we send a clear message that we intend to enforce immigration laws throughout our country, not just at the border, said Poe. Local and state law enforcement have the will to enforce our laws and secure our borders, they certainly deserve the funding and support of the federal government to do so. By eliminating the ridiculous sanctuary policies cities have, we will end the safe havens for illegal aliens and create a second layer of defense in securing our borders. Currently, once illegal immigrants get passed the Border Patrol there is a belief that they are home free that misconception must be corrected.Since 1995, spending on border security has increased tenfold from $1.2 billion to over $12.7 billion, and the number of Border Patrol agents has more than doubled from 5,000 to 12,319; yet during that same time period, the number of illegal immigrants in the U.S. has jumped from five million to over eleven million. What these statistics show is that the reason for the increase in the numbers of illegal immigrants is not as related to the number of agents on the border, but rather to the number of agents in our interior and their capability and willingness to enforce the law.Since 2001, only 159 officers have received training nationwide in the 287(g) program. According to testimony given before the House Homeland Security Committee and a report from the Heritage Foundation, there is a need to expand this program to train 5,000 state and local law enforcement officers nationwide over the next two years. This amendment is an important step toward securing our border.Because the federal government has failed to protect our nations borders, more and more of the burden of illegal immigration has fallen on the shoulders of state and local governments, said Poe. We need to give them the flexibility the 287(g) program provides to help them make their communities a safe place to live.Congressman Poe is a member of the House Immigration Reform Caucus and serves on the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism Subcommittee.###
05.22.2006	Last week, Congressman Poe offered an amendment to the Interior Appropriations Bill that would remove the moratorium placed on all off shore drilling outside of the western Gulf of Mexico. The amendment was defeated by a vote of 141-279, but has been gaining support and attention nationwide.Americans dont want to be at the mercy of OPEC and foreign oil rich nations, but my colleagues on the east and west coasts dont want to drill off their shores, said Poe. We cant have it both ways. We are the only country in the world that does not fully cultivate their oil and natural gas resources. We can not continue to allow nations unfriendly to the United States to dictate the price per barrel of oil in our country. There is absolutely no good reason why we can not expand current off shore drilling in Texas, Louisiana and Alabama to the coasts of Florida, California and the eastern seaboard. Tourism is no more important in those states than it is in ours and it is time that everyone pitch-in and make our domestic energy policy a national priority.According to the American Petroleum Institute, there are approximately 300 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas and more than 50 billion barrels of oil yet to be discovered along the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) in the lower 48 States. That is enough oil or natural gas to: Maintain current oil production for 87 years and current natural gas production for 68 years Produce gasoline for 116 million cars and heating oil for 47 million homes for 15 years Replace current imports from the Persian Gulf for 59 years Produce sufficient natural gas to heat 75 million homes for 60 years Supply current industrial and commercial needs for 29 years or supply electricity generating needs for 55 yearsIn addition to this amendment, Congressman Poe has filed the following legislation:Sponsored Legislation: H.R. 3811 This bill will lift the moratorium on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. H.R. 4908 Opens up a large portion of the Gulf of Mexico known as Area 181 and instructs the Secretary of the Interior to offer it for oil and gas leasing no later than one year after its enactment.Co-Sponsored Legislation: H.R. 4761 This bill will allow coastal States to receive increased royalties paid to the government from the sale of oil and natural gas leases off their shores.###
05.22.2006	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) sent the following letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate reports of US Border Patrol sharing information of the whereabouts of civilian volunteer groups on the border with the Mexican Government:Recent news reports that the U.S. Border Patrol is sharing locations of civilian border volunteer groups, such as the Minutemen and Friends of the Border Patrol, with the Mexican government has caused great alarm to many Members of Congress. With heightened tensions in Congress over the debate on a broad border security bill and the emergence of these civilian border volunteers, I think it is important for Members to gain a greater understanding of the interaction between our Border Patrol and these groups.Many people have donated their time to assist with civilian border patrols because of their 1st Amendment right to petition the government for a redress of grievances. They are frustrated over the failure to enforce the law and protect our borders. These groups were formed to provide a watchful eye and help support our Border Patrol with information on movements across our borders. We are writing to ask that you consider undertaking an important study to discuss how the Department of Homeland Security utilizes information received from the Minutemen and like groups and what, if any, coordination is arranged between them.Additionally, with reports that our Border Patrol officials are identifying Minutemen locations and compromising their security by communicating these with Mexican Foreign Ministry officials, we would also like you to identify the extent of the relationship between the Department of Homeland Security and the Mexican Foreign Ministry. T.J. Bonner, President of the National Border Patrol Council, a union representing more than 10,000 Border Patrol agents has heard complaints from his agents about the Mexican Foreign Ministrys influence over the agency. We believe diplomatic negotiations between our two nations are best left to our State Department, rather than through a law enforcement agency such as the Department of Homeland Security. We would appreciate your insight into this important matter as well.Nineteen other Members of Congress jointly signed Congressman Poes letter. Congressman Poe is a member of the House Immigration Reform Caucus and serves on the House Committee on International Relations, Terrorism Subcommittee.###
05.18.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will introduce an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2007 Interior Appropriations Bill today that will allow the United States to lessen our dependence on foreign crude oil and natural gas by expanding domestic off shore drilling. The Gulf of Mexico is responsible for roughly 30 percent of the oil and 20 percent of natural gas production for the United States. However, parts of the Gulf and most of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) are off limits to further energy exploration.It is time we revisit this outdated policy in this current energy environment, said Poe. My amendment would allow for more oil and natural gas exploration along the OCS; continuing the success of drilling in the Western and Central Gulf of Mexico. This would allow for renewed oil and natural gas production from our oceans and lessen the stranglehold foreign oil rich nations and OPEC have on the American consumer.The current moratorium on OCS drilling limits offshore oil and natural gas exploration to the Western and Central Gulf of Mexico and parts of Northern Alaska. This moratorium places 90 percent of the OCS acreage off limits to energy development in the lower 48 states.According to the American Petroleum Institute, there are approximately 300 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of natural gas and more than 50 billion barrels of oil yet to be discovered in the lower 48 OCS. That is enough oil or natural gas to: Maintain current oil production for 87 years and current natural gas production for 68 years Produce gasoline for 116 million cars and heating oil for 47 million homes for 15 years Replace current imports from the Persian Gulf for 59 years Produce sufficient natural gas to heat 75 million homes for 60 years Supply current industrial and commercial needs for 29 years or supply electricity generating needs for 55 yearsWith demand for oil and natural gas increasing, it is imperative that we increase our domestic production to meet our growing demands and bring more supply into the market to lower prices.###
05.16.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) met today with representatives from the Southeast Texas Hurricane Recovery group, Congressmen Brady and Gohmert and House Leadership to prioritize financial needs for recovery efforts in southeast Texas. The meeting, including House Majority Leader John Boehner and Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert, focused on demonstrating Texas' need for equitable hurricane recovery funding in the Hurricane Supplemental Bill expected to go to conference in the coming weeks.Everyone seems to be focused on what happened with Hurricane Katrina that they have overlooked the damage along the Texas-Louisiana coast caused by Hurricane Rita. When the Conference committee meets I want them to be aware of the devastation that occurred in those areas, Texans deserve to have the resources they need to recover, Poe said.Congressman Poe will also take part in Special Orders today on the House floor, Rita on the Record. Poe will focus on the lack of attention given to recovery efforts in Southeast Texas despite the enormous hardships both Katrina and Rita placed on the State of Texas and their need for equal treatment by the federal government.In reality, Texas was struck twice. Texans opened their doors to Katrina evacuees and then Hurricane Rita forced many of these people to be evacuees themselves, losing everything. In response, the federal government added insult to injury by practically forgetting Texas and giving Texans only a fraction of the assistance that was given to other areas. All we are asking for is equality in the process, Poe said.Congressman Poe will be joined today by Congressmen Charles Boustany (LA-7), Kevin Brady (TX-8), and Louis Gohmert (TX-1).###
05.15.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) issued the following statements in regards to President Bushs Immigration Speech:Using the National Guard as a secondary line of defense in assisting the Border Patrol along our southern borders is a good start in securing our borders. We use the military to protect other countrys borders, we certainly should use it to protect our own. The governments first priority is to ensure the safety of its citizens and this should include the illegal entry into our country. We must utilize local law enforcement and abolish sanctuary policies that forbid local law enforcement from questioning ones citizenship.The United States currently has a generous guest worker program that allows 1.2 million people to legally work in our country each year. This has not stopped illegal immigration. Creating yet another new program that leads to citizenship for the millions of people who entered our country illegally is an insult to Americans and to those who came to America legally and pursued citizenship. I will not support amnesty in any form for those who knowingly and blatantly broke the law. This is amnesty, but under the cloak of a different name.Our country is faced with a challenge to uphold the law and see to the security and safety of our citizens. We can not continue to turn a blind eye to those living illegally amongst us. Employers and individuals who encourage and support illegal immigration must be held accountable. I have filed the Passport for All Act to require everyone entering the country to have a passport with photo identification. Why establish the creation of another form of identification for workers when the passport is the universal document recognized around the world and recommended by the 9/11 Commission?Securing our borders is as big a social issue as it is a security issue. American citizens are tired of picking up the tab for those who are illegally here and obtain social services. Before we begin to address the issue of citizenship for the 10-12 million here illegally, we must stop the bleeding at the border.Congressman Poe is a member of the House Immigration Reform Caucus and International Relations Committee; Terrorism Subcommittee.###
05.11.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) expressed his extreme displeasure with the deal brokered today in the United States Senate regarding amnesty for illegal immigrants. The deal, struck between Majority Leader Bill Frist (R- Tenn) and Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev), revives the Senates attempt at comprehensive immigration reform to provide a path to citizenship for the approximately 12 million illegal aliens currently in the United States.No matter what kind of political spin you try to put on this, what the Senate is considering is amnesty and it is an insult to American citizens and immigrants who came into this country the legal way. We cannot look the other way while illegal immigrants violate our laws. Amnesty is a betrayal of American citizens and the Constitution of the United States, Poe commented.The Senate will resume debate regarding illegal immigration reform early next week.Congressman Poe is a member of the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus and serves on the House Committee for International Relations, Terrorism subcommittee. For more information regarding Congressman Poe go to www.house.gov/poe.###
05.11.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) is pleased to announce that Reverend Ross Thompson served as the Guest Chaplain for the United States House of Representatives on Wednesday, May 10th. Rev. Thompson is the pulpit minister for the 1,200 member Bammel Church of Christ in Houston where Congressman Poe is a member.Just prior to the beginning of Wednesdays session of the 109th Congress, Congressman Poe welcomed Rev. Thompson to the House Chamber with a brief speech before the Members of Congress.CONGRESSMAN POES REMARKS:Ross Thomson was born in Scotland in 1956. At the age of 4, his family moved to Toowoomba, Australia, where he was raised. While there, he became a Christian. In 1975, faith took his family to Salisbury, Rhodesia for mission work among the Shona tribe. He worked with his father, and would devote the rest of his life to saving souls.Having lived the ministry for years, Ross moved to the United States to study. He obtained his bachelor and master's degree in theology from Harding University. He did further post-graduate work at Rice University.In 1989 he married Christine, who is with us today, and moved his family to southeast Texas, Alice, Texas, where he preached for the Morningside Drive congregation.He has preached for the Brooks Avenue Church of Christ in Raleigh, North Carolina, and Northlake Church of Christ in Atlanta, Georgia. Currently he is the pulpit minister for the 1,200 member Bammel Church of Christ in Houston.Christine and Ross are blessed with three children, Joshua, Savannah and Justin.It is clear Ross, with his proper Scottish background, was not born in Texas, but he got there as fast as he could. He became a U.S. citizen in 2002.One of my favorite stories about Ross was his first trip to an American grocery story. The first place he went was a southern grocery store called Piggly Wiggly. Puzzled, he didn't quite understand that concept.He has done much to preach the gospel of Jesus in Texas, and spends time in the people business. So today we welcome Ross here to the United States Congress, and appreciate his determination to practice and live the freedom of religion under the first amendment of the U.S. Constitution.###
05.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that funding for the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) Rice Research Unit in Beaumont, Texas will not be eliminated from the Presidents 2007 budget. This is great news for the many rice farmers that live and work in the 2nd Congressional District, said Poe. A reduction in funding would have had a serious impact on the rice industry and rural economies all along the Gulf Coast. We must provide our farmers with the latest research and necessary tools to continue to produce an affordable and safe food supply for the country and the world.The Presidents proposed budget for 2007 called for a cut of $1.5 million in research money provided to the ARS program. Congressman Poe advocated on local farmers behalf and worked to restore the funding during a meeting of the House Agricultural Appropriations Subcommittee.In a statement released by The US Rice Producers Association, Ray Stoesser, President of the Texas Rice Council and a member of the Executive Committee of the US Rice Producers Association said he was pleased with the news. From day one Congressman Poe has understood the importance of agriculture and he deserves full credit for his efforts in getting this vital funding restored to a research facility that has a strong track record of accomplishments.Since its creation in 1909, the research center at Beaumont, Texas has been served well by the strong partnership between Texas A&M University, USDA-ARS, and the U.S. rice industry. For more information on the Beaumont Rice Research Unit, please visit their website, http://www.ars.usda.gov.###
05.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) joined House and Senate Republicans this week in passing H.R. 4297, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act. This act extends alternative minimum tax relief, the increased spending limit on small business expensing, and the low rates on capital gains and dividends. The best thing government can do is get out of the way of the hard working Americans that make this country great. The fewer burdens we place on small business owners and working families the more productive our economy will be, Poe said.Among other things, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act will do the following: Extend alternative minimum tax relief for an additional year. Extend the increased limit on small business expensing. Extend the lower tax rate on dividend income through 2010, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. 1 in 2 taxpaying senior citizens will benefit. Extend the lower tax rate on capital gains income through 2010, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit.Impressive Economic Numbers: 138,000 jobs created in April. Approximately 2 million jobs created over the past 12 months. More than 5.2 million jobs created since August 2003.An unemployment rate of 4.7 percent lower than the average of the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. Gross domestic product (GDP) for the first quarter of 2006 grew at a robust 4.8 percent.###
05.05.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced he cosponsored H.R. 4836, the Catastrophe Savings Accounts Act of 2006. This bill will allow citizens to put money in a personal tax-exempt savings account that can be used to pay expenses that result from a presidentially declared major disaster. After last seasons hurricanes, too many people were left trying to make ends meet, said Poe. Predictions have the Gulf Coast a likely target for the next several years, it is important that we are all prepared financially. This bill will allow taxpayers to sock away pre-taxed money to meet deductibles in the event of another devastating storm.The Catastrophe Savings Account Act of 2006 includes the following provisions: Creates tax-exempt Catastrophe Savings Accounts (CSA) Allows tax-free distributions from a CSA to pay expenses resulting from a presidentially declared major disaster Limits CSA balances to: (1) $2,000 if you have a homeowners insurance deductible of $1,000 or less; and (2) $15,000 or twice a homeowner's insurance deductible for individuals with deductibles of more than $1,000 (Example: If the homeowners deductible is $5,000, they are allowed to save up to $10,000. People with deductibles $7,500 or higher can still save up to $15,000 and take $7,500 out tax-free to apply towards their deductible.)For more information on HR 4836, please visit http://thomas.loc.gov/.###
05.05.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently introduced H.R. 5308, the Passport Deduction for Border States Act of 2006. This legislation will allow citizens of border states to deduct the cost of purchasing a passport from their income tax return. By making passports tax deductible, we make them more attractive to travelers and increase our security and efficiency at our points of entry, said Poe.In 2004, Congress passed the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act. Among the provisions created by that bill was the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) that requires anyone entering the United States to have a passport or other accepted document that establishes the bearers identity and nationality.The deadline to be in compliance with the WHTI requirements for land border travel is January 1, 2008. The realty is that these travelers are woefully unprepared for the new requirement as evidenced by the low 26 percent passport ownership rate in America, said Poe. The Passport Deduction for Border States Act of 2006 seeks to encourage expanded passport ownership by making passports an equally affordable option by allowing applicants who live in states along the southern and northern border to deduct the full cost of their passport fees on their income tax return.Last year, Congressman Poe introduced H.R. 4120, the Passport for All Act, which would require anyone entering the United States to have a passport. A passport only policy is needed and preferred by U.S. Customs and Border Protection because of a passports security features and its possible expanded uses as a viable document for a fully functioning entry-exit system, said Poe. The passport is the universal identification document used around the world. Currently, we expect our Border Patrol Agents to authenticate hundreds of various documents and keep no record of who is entering or exiting our country, said Poe. The passport only policy was a vital component of border security highlighted by the 9/11 Commission.Congressman Poe is joined on H.R 5308 by Reps. Bass (R-NH), McMorris (R-WA), and Kilpatrick (D-MI).###
05.04.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces the passage of H.R. 4954, the SAFE Port Act of 2006, 421-2. The Security and Accountability for Every (SAFE) Port Act is comprehensive legislation based upon a layered security strategy that builds on existing initiatives to improve port and cargo security. Congressman Poe spoke on the House floor today in favor of an amendment in the bill that directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to consult with federal, state, and local government officials, as well as port personnel, should a security incident occur.As a Member of the Port Security Caucus, I rise in support of this amendment and the underlying bill. Representing the Port of Beaumont, which is a major supplier of military cargo to Iraq and Afghanistan, we need the local input on handling this unique cargo, said Poe. Our eyes have been opened to security lapses and potential threats in all our ports and the SAFE Port Act is a good step in seeing those threats addressed.Overview of the SAFE Port Act of 2006: Establishes in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) a Director of Cargo Security Policy to coordinate DHS cargo security policies and programs with other executive agencies relating to cargo security Establishes a port security grant program to allocate federal assistance to U.S. ports on the basis of risk and need. $400 million per year in risk-based funding will be provided through a dedicated Port Security Grant Program to harden U.S. ports against terrorist attacks. Requires the Department of Homeland Security to deploy nuclear and radiological detection systems at twenty-two U.S. seaports by the end of FY07. This will cover 98% of incoming maritime containers. Establishes the Container Security Initiative to identify and examine maritime containers that pose a risk for terrorism at foreign ports before they are shipped to the United States. Establishes the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism to strengthen and improve the overall security of the international supply chain and U.S. border security. Establishes minimum standards and verification procedures for securing containers in transit to an importer in the United States, including international standards for the security of containers moving through the international supply chain.Earlier this year, Congressman Poe sponsored the Port Security Act of 2006. This legislation prohibits foreign, state-owned companies from controlling operations at US ports and mandates a Congressional review of all existing foreign state-owned companies operating in US ports. The two bills combined will allow for security not only on the cargo, but the handlers as well.Congressman Poe is a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Waterways Subcommittee; International Relations Committee, Terrorism Subcommittee; and the Congressional Port Security Caucus.###
04.27.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) released promising statistical information regarding enrollment in Medicares new Prescription Drug Plan (Part D). According to Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the 2nd Congressional District of Texas ranks 1st in the Houston area and 5th in the State of Texas in total enrollment. To date, 106,437 eligible seniors and Social Security beneficiaries in the 2nd Congressional District have enrolled in Medicare Part D. I am pleased, but not surprised, that so many constituents have chosen to take advantage of this new benefit provided by Medicare, Poe said.The Humble and Beaumont Congressional offices have hosted information sessions across the district to educate the public about Medicare Part D and facilitate enrollment in the plan. It is important that everyone who is eligible sign up for this important benefit. Over 2.5 million people in the State of Texas have already enrolled and are saving money as we speak, Poe said. THE DEADLINE FOR ENROLLMENT IS MAY 15, 2006.For more information on Medicares new Prescription Drug Plan (Part D), please contact one of our three offices or visit our website, www.house.gov/poe .###
04.25.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) recently filed legislation to address the need to increase domestic crude oil and natural gas production. As gas prices hit record highs across our country, we must establish a stable and dependable energy plan. We are once again at the mercy of oil-rich nations and Americans are paying the price, Poe said. Currently, off shore drilling is limited to the coasts of Texas, Louisiana and a small portion of Alabama. I have filed legislation to expand domestic off shore drilling to all our coasts, even the scared shores of Florida and California, said Poe.There are several reasons the price per barrel is on the rise. The basic rules of supply and demand are a contributing factor. With countries like China paying above market price for crude oil, we need to have another choice for our oil and gas provider, said Poe. That choice should be Made in America. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, the United States imports 4.9 billion barrels of crude oil last year. As a result, we are at the mercy of the supplier. We can not continue to be held hostage by third world countries, said Poe. The best way to do that is to lessen our dependence on them by expanding our domestic drilling.Congressman Poe has filed the following legislation:Sponsored Legislation: H.R. 3811 This bill will lift the moratorium on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. It specifically directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a sale of oil and gas leases on all submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico that are depicted in a specified document entitled "Eastern Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale." H.R. 4908 Opens up a large portion of the Gulf of Mexico known as Area 181 to drilling by instructing the Secretary of the Interior to offer the 181 Area of the Gulf of Mexico for oil and gas leasing no later than one year after enactment of this Act. (Currently drilling is only allowed off the coasts of Texas, Louisiana, and a portion of AlabamaCo-Sponsored Legislation: H.R. 4761 This bill will allow coastal States to receive significant portions of royalties from the sale of natural gas leases off their shores. Discretion with regard to spending is left up to the States, but this money could and should be used to support disaster relief efforts such as the recovery efforts from Hurricanes Rita and Katrina.###
04.25.2006	As a result of a recent fact finding mission to the United States-Mexico Border, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) extended a personal invitation to President George W. Bush to meet with the Texas Border Sheriffs Association to hear their views on border security and immigration. The recent visit to the Del Rio area was the Congressmans second trip to the U.S.-Mexico Border in the past six months. Congressman Poe met with local Sheriff Tomas Herrera of Maverick County, L.K. Burgess of Kinney County, Douglas Sample of Dimmit County, and Deputy Sheriff Terry Simons of Val Verde County.It is clear. The single most important issue currently facing this Congress is illegal immigration, Poe said.Last fall, Poe traveled to Zapata and Webb Counties to asses the situation on the border there. This trip, Poe traveled to the more rural areas of the Texas border. Unfortunately the situation is not much better, Poe said. Ranches the size of some small states are patrolled by local Sheriffs offices with few resources. These men are brave patriots but they are out manned, out funded, and out gunned.Congressman Poe also met with local ranch owners in border towns to discuss their concerns. There is a different breed of illegal immigrant now since the late 60s. Previously they would come and respect the land and offer to work on the ranches. Now, in addition to abusing our laws, illegals abuse land and the property on their way through. They break into homes, rob people, and destroy property. The lawlessness is disgusting, Poe said.Border Sheriffs expressed their concerns over what they call narco-terrorists that dont give a second thought to firing at U.S. law enforcement. Where they were once faced with drug runners who may put up a fight, they are now faced with narco-terrorists with grenade launchers and automatic weapons that refuse to lose a shipment.The violence at the border is at its breaking point and our enemies around the world know it. As a country, we can not afford to be a victim of hindsight to another terrorist attack, said Poe. The Border Sheriffs are asking for our federal governments help, they dont want to see the next devastating attack on our country come through their counties.We must enforce the borders of this country now, Poe said. This is a matter of homeland security and not something that we can put off any longer. I urge every Congressman and Senator to visit the border and see the lawlessness first hand before they try and pass a toothless bill that does nothing to ensure the integrity of our borders.###
04.19.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will be joined by area officials and members of the community to dedicate the United States Post Office in the City of Humble in honor of Mrs. Lillian McKay. A special ceremony will be held to honor the The First Lady of Humble by forever memorializing her name and her service. Mrs. McKay is best known for her dedication in preserving Humbles history through the McKay Clinic Medical Museum and as wife of Dr. Haden Edward McKay, Jr., physician and beloved Mayor of the City of Humble for 24 years. What: Humble Post Office Dedication Ceremony Who: Congressman Ted Poe Mrs. Lillian McKay Mr. Chuck Kelly, USPS Harris County Pct. 4 Commissioner Jerry Eversole Congressman Jack Fields Humble Mayor Donnie McMannes Monsignor Paul Procella, V.F. WHEN: Monday, April 24, 2006 7:30 a.m. WHERE: U.S. Post Office - Humble 1202 1st Street East Humble Texas, 77338 ###
04.18.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will present the first national Congressional Victims Rights Caucus awards on Friday for exemplary service to crime victims. The awards ceremony is being held in conjunction with the National Organization for Victim Assistance (NOVA) Forum and 2006 National Crime Victims Rights Week.Five national awards will be presented to recipients who have made significant contributions to the crime victims services field by sharing their expertise with others and by ensuring that crime victims rights and needs are addressed on a daily basis. Houstonian Elaine Stolte, Executive Director of the Houston Childrens Assessment Center will be a recipient of the Ed Stout Memorial Award for Outstanding Victim Advocacy on behalf of victims and survivors of crime.Congressman Poe founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. The caucus is co-chaired by Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) and Congresswoman Katherine Harris (R-FL). Poe, a lifelong advocate for victims, has twice spearheaded the effort to save Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.Founded in 1975, NOVA is the oldest national group of its kind in the worldwide victims movement. NOVAs mission is to promote rights and services for victims of crime and crisis everywhere. For more information, visit www.trynova.org.WHEN: Friday April 21, 2006 11:30 amawards ceremonyWHERE: Rayburn House Office Building Room 2360 Washington, DC 20515###
04.17.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will give the closing conference address at the New York State Crime Victims Board 2006 Conference taking place in Rochester, NY. He will speak about his innovative sentences as a former felony court judge and the work he does in Congress on behalf of victims. Poe will also discuss his recent efforts to protect Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding.Poe, a lifelong advocate for victims has twice spearheaded the effort to save VOCA funding in Congress. Poe also co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Poe has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.The New York State Crime Victims Board provides financial assistance to eligible innocent victims of crime.WHEN: Thursday April 20, 2006 6:00 pmWHERE: Hyatt Regency Rochester 125 East Main Street Rochester, NY###
04.17.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will be a featured speaker at the Minnesota Hope Chapter of Parents of Murdered Childrens 8th Annual Victims Rights Brunch. He will speak about his innovative sentences as a former felony court judge and the work he does in Congress on behalf of victims. Parents Of Murdered Children, Inc. is a self-help support organization for families and friends who have lost a loved one to violence.Congressman Poe, a lifelong advocate for victims has twice spearheaded the effort to save Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding and was instrumental in the creation of the Child Safety Act of 2005 which incorporated his Child Predator bill. Congressman Poe also co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Poe has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.WHEN: Sunday April 23, 2006 12:30--speechWHERE: Airport Hilton 3800 E 80th Street Bloomington MN 55425###
04.17.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will be the keynote speaker at a luncheon at The Child Center, Inc.s 2nd annual conference on child abuse and family violence. He will speak about Child Abuse Awareness Month and the work he does in Congress on behalf of children and victims. The Child Center Inc. is a child advocacy center serving 10 counties throughout the state of Missouri.WHEN: Tuesday, April 18, 2006 11:30amWHERE: St. Louis Airport Hilton St. Louis, MO###
04.17.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will speak at the Texas Victims Rights Candlelight Vigil taking place in Austin. The vigil will honor and remember victims of crime from across the state of Texas. Poe will speak about his innovative sentences as a former felony court judge and the work he does in Congress on behalf of victims.Congressman Poe, a lifelong advocate for victims has twice spearheaded the effort to save Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding and was instrumental in the creation of the Child Safety Act of 2005 which incorporated his Child Predator bill. Congressman Poe also co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Poe has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.WHEN: Monday April 24, 2006 6:00 pmWHERE: Umlauf Sculpture Garden 605 Robert E. Lee Road Austin, Texas 78704###
04.12.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will speak to the Baytown Kiwanis club tomorrow. Poe will discuss his recent trip to the Texas/Mexico border, immigration and other topics of importance facing Congress.WHEN: Thursday, April 13, 2006 11:30amWHERE: Goose Creek Country Club 5000 Country Club View Baytown, TX 77521 (281)424-5565--phone###
04.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will be presented with a special Leadership Award for his work during Hurricane Rita by Chester Jordan of the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC). The National Association of Development Organizations (NADO) 2006 Congressional Partnership Award is given for Community and Economic Development Support and outstanding leadership in promoting federal community, economic and transportation development programs. In addition, Congressman Poe will be recognized for his efforts on behalf of Southeast and East Texas in securing federal hurricane recovery funding.WHEN: Wednesday, April 12, 2006 2:30PMWHERE: South East Texas Regional Planning Commission SETRPC SWAN Room 2210 Eastex Freeway Beaumont, Texas 77703The South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC) is a voluntary association of local governments that serves an area composed of Hardin, Jefferson and Orange Counties. The Planning Commission was established in June, 1970 under authority provided by the Texas Legislature in 1965. SETRPC is one of 24 Regional Planning Councils that serve all of Texas. Regional Council boundaries conform to the State Planning Region System whereby 24 areas or regions are delineated according to socio-economic and physical characteristics that set one area apart from another.###
04.10.2006	Congressman Ted Poe will be the keynote speaker at a luncheon at Garth House, Mickey Mehaffey Children's Advocacy Program regarding Child Abuse Awareness Month and the work he does in Congress on behalf of children and victims. There will be a signing ceremony of an interagency agreement with 50 partner agencies from Jefferson, Hardin, Orange, Jasper, Newton and Tyler Counties that investigate child sexual abuse cases. The Garth House was founded in 1991, to give children who have been abused a safe place to go and tell their story.WHEN: Wednesday, April 12 11:30amWHERE: Garth House 1895 McFaddin Beaumont, TX 77701 409-838-9084###
04.07.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Alphonso Jackson will tour Southeast Texas to get a first hand look at hurricane damaged areas and recovery efforts. Secretary Jackson will begin his tour on Tuesday in Orange and conclude his visit in Jefferson County on Wednesday. He will meet with local officials throughout Southeast and East Texas about outstanding housing and community development needs in the Hurricane Rita affected area. Congressman Poe will host a roundtable meeting with local Jefferson County officials to discuss the importance of HUD funding for the short and long term recovery for the area. A press conference will immediately follow the roundtable discussion.WHEN: Wednesday, April 12, 2006 10:15am Press Conference 10:30am Proclamation Presentation* 11:00am USPS follow up**WHERE: Sabine Pass School Teaching Theater 5641 South Gulfway Sabine Pass, TX*Congressman Poe will present proclamations to the Sabine Pass School and Sabine Pass Fire Department for their efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita.**Congressman Poe will take questions regarding the USPS Consolidation Survey and meeting with USPS Representatives.###
04.06.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that he has introduced a House Concurrent Resolution, (H. Con. Res. 378) expressing Congressional support for the goals and ideals of National Crime Victims Rights Week. The resolution will also encourage increased public awareness of the rights, needs, and concerns of crime victims and survivors in the United States.Poe is sponsoring the House Concurrent Resolution along with Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA) and Congresswoman Katherine Harris (R-FL).As a former felony court judge, I witnessed first-hand the plight of victims of crime. To be a victim, to be chosen by a predator is a terrible travesty. We must do all that we can to protect victims rights and not leave them to deal with their recovery on their own. Victims must not be deserted, especially by their government, Poe said. We as a culture and a Congress must not stand by while innocent people are victimized. We must arm our communities against perpetrators and make certain that the perpetrators pay.A lifelong victims advocate, Poe has made victims rights his top priority on Capitol Hill. Spearheading the effort to protect VOCA funding and victims rights Congressman Poe founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.The theme of the 2006 National Crime Victims Rights Week is Victims Rights: Strength in Unity. The observance of National Crime Victims Rights Week will take place April 23 through 29. Community rallies, candlelight vigils, and activities promoting victims rights and services will be held across the nation.###
04.03.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA have approved a $1.6 million grant for the City of Baytown. The grant was approved to reimburse the City of Baytown for costs incurred while housing evacuees from Louisiana in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.This is great news for the City of Baytown, said Poe. The people of Baytown immediately took charge and saw to the every need of the folks coming in from Louisiana. I am glad to see that they are being reimbursed for their expenses and not left footing the bill for their hospitality.The State of Texas administers FEMAs Public Assistance program under which eligible and documented disaster-related costs are reimbursed to state and local government agencies. For more information on Texas disaster recovery visit www.fema.gov or www.txdps.state.tx.us/dem.###
03.28.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) responded today with his disapproval of the Senate Judiciary Committees proposals on illegal immigration reform. In December 2005, the House passed H.R.4437, a bill designed specifically to deal with border enforcement. Yesterday, the Senate Judiciary Committee made several amendments to that proposal. Among those proposals were the weakening of border enforcement provisions in H.R. 4437 and the creation of a path to legalization of the nearly 12 million illegal immigrants living in the United States today.Congressman Poe Issued the Following Statement:The recent vote by the Senate Judiciary Committee does not reflect the will of the American people. I do not support legislation that will simply condone illegal conduct by granting amnesty to those who knowingly and willing ignore our laws. I support immigration and the plight for a better life in our country, but I believe it must be achieved legally. Public protests, the waving of foreign flags, and demands by illegal immigrants on a country to which they are not citizens is a form of intimidation to American Citizens. We can not let absurd politically correct politics get in the way of basic common sense. To achieve the American Dream and reap the rewards of being an American, it must be expected that you are an American citizen. I expect that all those wanting to come here should do so legally. After all, unless they are invited as a guest they are an intruder into our homeland.###
03.22.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) participated in a joint press conference Tuesday, March 21, 2006 at the Southeast Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC) stressing the importance of securing additional disaster funds for the State of Texas.This is a marathon, not a sprint, said Poe. It is important that we all continue to work together as a unified team in representing the needs of Southeast Texas. While we have been dealt some hard blows, there have been some victories and as long as we stay in this fight, we will see more to come. Keeping Rita, the forgotten Hurricane in the National spot light is a tough fight, but one I plan to vigorously continue. Margaret Thatcher may have said it best, sometimes to win the war, you must fight the battle more than once.The joint press conference stressed the importance of federal and state funding, particularly Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), to keep Jefferson County on the road to recovery.Jefferson County Judge Carl Griffith thanked Congressman Poe for his immediate response to their needs, Congressman Poe was here as soon as the storm passed, if not sooner, and I commend him for his efforts throughout our recovery.Congressman Poe and his staff continue to assist constituents throughout Jefferson County in receiving assistance and meeting their recovery needs. Congressman Poe has hosted several meetings for local representatives in Washington to continue to push for fair and equal treatment in Congress. The district office continues to host informational workshops with representatives from FEMA, IRS, Small Business Association, Texas Dept. of Insurance and other agencies to ensure everyone has the opportunity to get their questions answered and receive full compensation for their needs.The South East Texas Regional Planning Commission (SETRPC) is a voluntary association of local governments that serves an area composed of Hardin, Jefferson and Orange Counties. The Planning Commission was established in June, 1970 under authority provided by the Texas Legislature in 1965. SETRPC is one of 24 Regional Planning Councils that serve all of Texas. Regional Council boundaries conform to the State Planning Region System whereby 24 areas or regions are delineated according to socio-economic and physical characteristics that set one area apart from another.###
03.16.2006	The United States Chamber of Commerce presented Rep. Ted Poe (TX-2) with its prestigious Spirit of Enterprise award for his strong support for a pro-economic growth legislative agenda in the first session of the 109th Congress. Congressman Poe was presented the award at the US Chamber of Commerce Awards Breakfast Wednesday, March 15, 2006.Small Business is the cornerstone of our communities, said Poe. I believe the American workers are the best in the world. I am honored to be recognized by the United States Chamber of Commerce and applaud their continued dedication to growing our economy.The Chamber awards the Spirit of Enterprise based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes outlined in its annual publication, How They Voted. Rep. Poe scored 89 percent with the Chamber last year and has compiled an 89 percent cumulative ranking during his tenure in Congress.Ted is a leader who has fought for legislation to spur job creation, increase productivity and keep our economy growing. said Thomas J. Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. Were proud to present him with this award on behalf of Americas businesses, both large and small.The U.S. Chamber is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region.Congressman Poe is a member of the House Committee on Small Business. The Committee is charged with protecting Americas small businesses from the federal government and craft legislation designed to help Americas entrepreneurs.###
03.15.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces his support of House Resolution 354, supporting equal access to U.S. Military recruiters on college campuses. This resolution expresses satisfaction in the recent unanimous decision issued by the Supreme Court in FAIR V. Rumsfeld, and offers continued support to military recruitment efforts on college campuses across the nation.The case presented by FAIR claimed that Law Schools receiving Federal funding should not be required to allow military recruiters on their campuses. The Supreme Court unanimously disagreed with this claim and ruled that military recruiters should be given the same treatment as any recruiter from a civilian company.Congressman Poe Issued the Following Statement:Military recruiting on college campuses is important to the defense of this nation. It provides technically trained and highly educated people that are vital to our Armed Services. These institutions should not be allowed to take money from the Federal Government then turn around and forbid military recruiters from stepping foot on their historic campuses. These elitists need a reminder that their freedom to file such a lawsuit is protected by those same brave men and women in uniform they wish to shame off their campuses.###
03.14.2006	The office of Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host TWO Medicare Prescription Drug Plan and IRS informational workshops on Friday, March 24, 2006. Representatives from the health care industry and IRS will be on hand to provide information and answers to constituent questions. The first hour of each session will be for IRS matters, the second for Medicare Part D. Each session will have a short presentation and be followed with constituent questions and answers.Spring Workshop10am 12pm6817 Cypresswood DriveSpring, Texas 77379Atascocita Workshop2pm 4 pm19520 Pinehurst Trails DriveHumble, Texas 77346###
03.14.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announces the start of this years annual Congressional Art Competition, Artistic Discovery 2006.The Congressional Art Competition will be a great opportunity for young people in my district. said Congressman Poe. I hope that all high school students with a talent for art will take advantage of this exciting opportunity. I want this years contest to be a huge event with lots of applicants.The competition for visual arts is open to all high school students who reside in the 2nd District of Texas. Acceptable art forms include paintings, drawings, collages, prints, computer generated art, photography and mixed media. All entries must be original. The artwork will be judged by a panel and the winning entry will go up to Washington, D.C. to hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol.According to the Architect of the Capitol, in order to hang in the Cannon Tunnel, the artwork must conform to the following dimensional standards: it must be two-dimensional, no more than four inches in depth and no larger than 30 inches by 30 inches, including the frame.Congressman Poe invites all high school students interested in the contest to visit his Web site at www.house.gov/poe/artcontest.htm to view in detail the general guidelines, the framing guidelines and the suitability guidelines for the contest. At the Web site, potential applicants can also find the Student Information & Artwork Release form necessary for submission.The deadline for submission is Friday, May 19, 2005, 5pm CST.For any further questions, contact the Congressmans district offices in Humble at (281) 446-0242 or in Beaumont at (409) 212-1997.###
03.08.2006	Representative Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today the Child Safety Act of 2005 overwhelmingly passed in the U.S. House of Representatives. This comprehensive bi-partisan legislation was designed to protect children from sex offenders and other criminals. This measure includes all of the provisions offered by Congressman Poe in his first bill, the Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) by creating a National Sex Offender Registry that will keep track offenders across state lines. In addition, this legislation includes a Training and Technology Amendment to provide law enforcement with the funding and latest technologies to deal with internet crimes against children.This is a victory for our children, said Poe. The Child Safety Act of 2005 will help close loopholes in current sex offender notification requirements and protect our children from those predators lurking in their communities. I urge the Senate to take swift action and get this important piece of legislation to the Presidents desk as soon as possible.The Child Safety Act was drafted in response to the recent kidnappings, rapes, and murders of several children like Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, and Jetseta Gage, the Childrens Safety Act of 2005 addresses numerous elements of crime against children including: violent crimes, sexual crimes and exploitation, as well as protection of foster and adopted children. Inspired by Congressman Poes Child Predator Act, the Childrens Safety Act will feature components such as a concrete definition of a child predator, the escalation of non-compliance with registration requirements to a federal felony, community notification for all sex offenders (including child predators) who enter a new community, a free online database accessible to law enforcement and parents, and specifications for the timely update of this database even for those sex offenders crossing state lines.Representative Poe co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and remains a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues. Congressman Poe serves on the Board of Directors for the National Childrens Alliance and The Childrens Assessment Center in Houston. Poe recently received the Champion of Social Change Award from the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault for his dedication on behalf of victims.###
03.08.2006	Rep. Ted Poe issued the following statement in response to Dubai Port Worlds announcement to sell off US holdings:With the recent public outcry over the decision to allow foreign state-owned companies run our ports, I am not surprised by todays announcement by Dubai Port World to sell off their US holdings. While this particular issue may be put to rest, our eyes have been opened to other potential dangers lurking in our ports. Outsourcing national security to foreign countries is a dangerous deal that defies all common sense. The Port Security Act of 2006 will call for a Congressional review of all existing foreign state-owned companies operating in US ports. Americas national security is not for sale.Congressman Ted Poe announced last week that he joined Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz of Florida in sponsoring the Port Security Act of 2006. In addition to calling for Congressional review of all existing foreign state-owned companies operating in US ports, this legislation will prohibit all foreign state-owned companies from controlling operations at US ports.###
03.01.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), was awarded the Texas Association Against Sexual Assaults (TAASA) Champion of Social Change Award today at an awards ceremony in South Padre Island. Congressman Poe received the award for his tireless efforts on behalf of crime victims. Congressman Poe was in Washington, DC voting, but sent along the following statement via video:I am sorry that I cannot be there today to accept this wonderful award, but I am voting today in Washington, DC. I would like to thank the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault for hosting this event and for the tireless work that they do on behalf of victims of sexual violence. To be a victim, to be chosen to be the prey by a predator, to have a life stolen or broken by criminal conduct is a terrible and tragic travesty. But to have your own government desert and abandon you, too, is an injustice. It is an injustice to the injured, to the innocent, to the victims. I am honored to represent the great state of Texas as a Member of Congress and I assure you that I will continue the fight for victims on the national level so that victims are not abandoned by their own government. It must be reinforced as public policy that we will not stand idly by while people are maimed and hurt in our culture, that we will support them that we will be compassionate toward them, and we will make sure that criminals who commit crimes against them will pay. Thank you again for all that you do. God bless you and God bless Texas.Congressman Poe, a lifelong advocate for victims has already made a name for himself on Capitol Hill. While in Congress, Poe spearheaded the effort to save Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding and was instrumental in the creation of the Child Safety Act of 2005 which incorporated his Child Predator bill. Congressman Poe also co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. Poe has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor and is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.The Texas Association Against Sexual Assault (TAASA) is an organization committed to ending sexual violence in Texas through education, prevention, and advocacy. For more information about TAASA, http://www.taasa.org/###
03.01.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) announced today that he will join Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz of Florida in sponsoring the Port Security Act of 2006. This is the House version of legislation introduced in the Senate by Senators Robert Menendez and Hillary Rodham Clinton. This legislation will prohibit foreign, state-owned companies from controlling operations at US ports and stop the UAE/P&O deal by mandating a Congressional review of existing foreign state-owned companies operating in US ports.Congressman Poe issued the following statement:In the world we live in today, there is nothing more important than our country's security. This legislation is a step in the right direction in securing American Ports and keeping the fox out of the hen house. The decision to let the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have a stake in the operations of US ports is simply a dangerous one. History has shown that friends of the United States come and go, who is with us today may not be tomorrow. There is solid evidence that shows the UAE recognized the Taliban, laundered money to 9/11 terrorists and continues to participate in the Arab boycott against Israel. By allowing this deal to go through, these same foreign entities will have access to US manifests showing what cargo is being shipped and when and where it is going, including military cargo. The Port of Beaumont, which is in my district, sees one-third of all military cargo deployed to and from Iraq. It defies history and common sense to take a chance on our national security. By opening ourselves up, we are just asking for trouble down the road. This UAE owned business is truly a risky business for America.In addition to the Port Security Act of 2006 Congressman Poe plans to file additional legislation that will expand on this bill by requiring additional Congressional Oversight as it applies to foreign state-owned companies and homeland security concerns.Congressman Poe is a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Waterways Subcommittee; International Relations Committee, Terrorism Subcommittee; and the Congressional Port Security Caucus.###
02.08.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), member of the International Relations Committee, met with Houston Consuls General from the European Union last week to discuss emergency procedures for future disasters. The meeting provided an opportunity for Congressman Poe and local Consuls General to come together to discuss how local Consulates can stay in contact with their nationals during a time of crisis, such as what happened recently with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Among many subjects presented, the group discussed ways in which the State Department can work directly with local Consulates on developing a system to locate foreign nationals who have evacuated in an effort to notify their families in their countries.It is important that this type of dialogue take place on a regular basis in an effort to have a plan in place when hit with a disaster, such as a hurricane, that affects so many people in our country, said Poe. I appreciate the suggestions and pro-active concern from our local Consuls General in regards to this matter and will address them before the International Relations Committee.Congressman Poe was joined by Consuls General of France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain and The United Kingdom. Congressman Poe serves on the International Relations Committee Subcommittee on Europe and Emerging Threats and regularly participates in meetings with foreign dignitaries and representatives to be kept up-to-date on foreign issues and policy. For more information about the Committees Congressman Poe serves on, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
02.08.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee, met with approximately 60 Continental Airlines employees at George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) last week to discuss various issues of interest to the aviation industry. Congressman Poe was given a first hand look at how the men and women behind the scenes move up to 62,000 passengers, and their baggage, through Bush Intercontinental Airport A DAY.Employees were given the opportunity to talk with Congressman Poe about issues they feel need attention by members of Congress. Areas of interest discussed included pension legislation allowing airlines longer periods of time to fund their pensions without penalty; unfunded federal security mandate that provides Federal Air Marshal travel at the cost of the airline; the screening process for Canadian travelers and their baggage that currently require duplicate security checks; the fuel tax imposed on airlines that was eliminated for both rail and barge; and a federal grant for a new security screening center at IAH to allow for safer and more efficient federal screening by Transportation Security Administration (TSA) employees.In addition, employees shared their concerns over proposed guidelines set forth by the Department of Transportation (DOT) that would allow foreign investors a greater than 50 percent voting stock in U.S. airline companies. The DOT believes that foreign investments will assist domestic airlines in becoming more financially sound. Continental employees expressed concern with this policy because they feel Americans should be solely responsible for running American-based airline companies. There are also concerns of route changes, purchasing decisions for aircraft and employment changes that would possibly go against our national security interests. Congressman Poe agreed that this proposed plan is not in the best interest of our national security and pledged his support to keep American airlines in the hands of Americans. When I look out across these runways, said Poe, I want to see American-made Boeing aircraft, not European ones. Congressional hearings on this subject will commence on Feb. 8, 2006.Congressman Poe also offered his support of legislation that would allow airlines to show the amount of taxes airlines collect on behalf of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Currently, airlines contribute 26 percent of the ticket purchase price to taxes. Unlike hotel or car rentals, this breakdown of the total cost is not presented to the consumer on their receipt of purchase. Congressman Poe is interested in legislation that would allow airlines to show this if they choose, but would not be a requirement.As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Congressman Poe regularly meets with industry officials and employees to talk to them about what is being done in Congress on their behalf and offer them the opportunity to speak directly to him about issues they feel need attention. For more information about the committees Congressman Poe serves on, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
02.08.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), recently traveled to the Dallas-Fort Worth (DFW) area to meet with local transportation representatives to get a better idea of how they have successfully developed a mass-transit system for the six million people living within the Metroplex area. Congressman Poe, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was given the opportunity to witness the success that the DFW area has had with their mass transit system, specifically in Irving and Las Colinas, and how they can serve as a model for other Texas cities.As we all know, Texans love their cars. said Poe. Commuter rails and mass-transit are a way of life for most people along the east coast, but this is fairly new to Texas and the folks in the Dallas-Fort Worth area have done a great job of getting people to park their cars and get on board.Congressman Poe got a first hand look of the current rail and bus operations and an aerial view of the Metroplex to get a perspective of the expansion plans as it follows population growth patterns. DFW transportation representatives stressed the ability to develop an efficient and dependable mass transit system has allowed, not only for an ease in traffic congestion and reduced air pollution, but it has increased the economy by enticing business development outside of the city.As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Congressman Poe regularly meets with transportation officials and representatives to gain insight into their industry and how he can better serve the people of Texas. For more information about the committees Congressman Poe serves on, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poe.###
02.08.2006	The office of Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will host an informational workshop with representatives from the Internal Revenue Service to inform and assist constituents of the options available to them under the Disaster Tax Relief provisions provided in the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act. IRS representatives will be on hand to give an explanation of benefits that are available to Hurricane Rita victims and then work with them one-on-one to ensure their specific questions are answered. BEAUMONT Saturday, February 10 10am-11am workshop 11am-12pm one-on-one time with constituents Elmo Willard Library - Meeting Room 3590 Lucas Beaumont, TX 77708 PORT ARTHUR Saturday, February 10 1:30pm-2:30pm workshop 2:30pm-3:30pm one-on-one time with constituents Port Arthur Chamber of Commerce - Community Room 4749 Twin City Highway Port Arthur, TX 77642###
01.25.2006	The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will award the State of Texas a mere $74,522,748 of $11.5 Billion in federal disaster assistance funding. This amount is only of small fraction of the $1.2 billion requested by the State of Texas to cover damages and expenses incurred as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.Congressman Poe vowed that this is not over. The next step will be to work with the other members of the Texas Delegation and Governor Perry to inquire as to how this figure was calculated and urge HUD Director, Alphonso Jackson, to reconsider the allotment given to Texas.Congressman Poe issued the following statement:I am glad to see that Texas is included in the disaster relief funding, however to say I am disappointed in the amount would be a gross understatement. $75 Million is a drop in the bucket when considering it is for the entire State of Texas. Given the amount of destruction in Jefferson County alone, this wont even put a dent in our recovery costs. Texas not only has to recoup the costs of housing over 150,000 Katrina evacuees, but we are still reeling from the destruction caused by Hurricane Rita. This is an unacceptable figure and slap in the face to Hurricane victims in southeast Texas. It seems to me that the federal government is rewarding those states that were ill-prepared and botched their recovery efforts. Southeast Texas was prepared and responded immediately in rebuilding their communities, and should not be penalized for it financially. Let me be very clear, Texas is just as important as Louisiana and New Orleans is no more important than Beaumont.HUD Director, Alphonso Jackson, announced today in a conference call that they will allocate $11.5 billion in a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) to Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama and Texas. This program allows state leaders to decide exactly how this grant money should be spent. HUD will issue a notice to the state of Texas and it will provide guidance to assist them in their long-term recovery planning, particularly as they relate to meeting the tremendous housing needs of their citizens. Once local and state leaders develop their action plan, they will submit to HUD for review.###
01.23.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), will be visiting Hull Daisetta High School to talk to students about the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Congressman Poe will share his experiences in Congress and some of the historic events that he has been a part of this past year, including his visit to Iraq for their first-ever democratic elections. Congressman Poe will also answer questions from the students and explain the importance of staying involved in our government.WHEN: Tuesday, January 24, 2006 1:00 2:00PMWHERE: Hull Daisetta High School 117 North Main Daisetta, TX 77533###
01.22.2006	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), will recognize Harris County Fire Marshal, Mike Montgomery, for his dedication and service to Harris County. Congressman Poe will present a Leadership Award on behalf of the Harris County Fire Marshals office and the citizens of Harris County.The presentation will take place on the first day of the Texas Regional Arson Conference. The conference is attended by investigators from all over the state and features the areas top fire investigators.WHO: Congressman Ted Poe HC Fire Marshal, Mike MontgomeryWHEN: Monday, January 23, 2006 9:00 AMWHERE: Texas Regional Arson Conference Humble Civic Center 8233 Will Clayton Parkway Humble, TX###
01.18.2006	Congressman Poe will deliver the keynote speech to Texas Rice Producers at their 55th Annual Meeting on Wednesday. Congressman Poe has long been an advocate for the rice growers in our area by advocating trade with Cuba on their behalf and leading the national awareness to the devastation they faced as a result of Hurricane Rita.WHERE: Harris County Extension Service Center Bear Creek Park Off Highway 6, just north of I-10 Houston, TXWHEN: Wednesday, January 18, 2006 10:00 am###
01.17.2006	Congressman Poe will serve as the guest speaker at the Houston Police Departments Interactive Program. The program is designed to share information regarding the Houston Police Department, the community and crime. Congressman Poe will update the group on the 2005 Legislative year and the efforts he has made in Congress on behalf of law enforcement and victims.In his first three months in Congress, Poe introduced the Child Predator Act to safeguard our children from child predators. All of the provisions from this bill were included in the Children's Safety Act that overwhelmingly passed the House in September.When rising concerns of misplaced sex offenders surfaced after the massive hurricane evacuations, Congressman Poe filed legislation to permit local and state law enforcement access to databases maintained by the FEMA for purposes of complying with sex offender registries. During natural disaster emergencies, sex offenders may move from one state to another without registering in the new community. If local and state law enforcement can use FEMA's database to locate sex offenders, they can help keep our communities safe.Poes long history as an advocate for victims paved the way for the creation of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus. This caucus, founded by Rep. Poe, was established to advocate for victims of injustice in the United States and abroad.For a complete list of sponsored and co-sponsored legislation, please visit our website, www.house.gov/poeWHAT: HPD Interactive ProgramWHERE: Kingwood Church of Christ 2901 Woodland Hills Kingwood, TXWHEN: Tuesday, January 17, 2006 7:00 pm###
01.13.2006	Congressman Ted Poe, (TX-02) met with local union groups in Jefferson County yesterday, January 12, 2006. The meeting, hosted by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), gave union members a one-on-one opportunity to discuss important issues facing the region with Congressman Poe.Labor is the backbone of southeast Texas, said Poe. I believe the American dream is built on hard work and dedication, both strong characteristics of the people in Jefferson County. Congressman Poe continued by saying, I feel that it is crucial to the recovery process along the Texas Gulf Coast that we continue an open door policy between the people and their government. This meeting was exactly that.Union Representatives discussed rising concerns with health care coverage, illegal immigrants in the workforce, outsourcing, dependence on foreign oil and natural gas, minimum wage increase, as well general labor issues affecting southeast Texas. The meeting was well attended by representatives from approximately 20 Jefferson County Labor Unions.IBEW host, David Gonzales, expressed his agreement on a successful meeting, I was glad Congressman Poe was willing to listen to us since we dont see eye-to-eye on all political issues. After talking with him, I feel very comfortable in bringing up issues with him in the future.This meeting was the first of several discussions planned with southeast Texas Labor Unions. Congressman Poe and union members will continue to communicate regularly through individual and group meetings throughout the year.###
01.09.2006	Congressman Poe will visit the Motiva, Port Arthur Refinery today to tour the facility and meet with refinery officials to discuss concerns and issues of interest.WHO: Congressman Poe, Motiva, Port Arthur Refinery officialsWHEN: January 9, 2006 1:30 pmWHERE: Motiva Port Arthur Refinery 2555 Savannah Avenue Port Arthur, TX###
01.09.2006	Congressman Poe will speak at the Beaumont Chamber of Commerce Membership Lunch and the Port Neches Chamber of Commerce breakfast this week. He will give a congressional update and a preview of priorities and hot topics in the upcoming term.Port Neches Chamber of CommerceBreakfastThe Pompano Club330 Twin City HwyPort Neches, TX 77651 Wednesday January 11, 20067:30 am Beaumont Chamber of CommerceMembership LunchMCM Elgante' Hotel & Conference Center2355 Interstate 10 SBeaumont, TX 77705Thursday January 12, 200611:30 am###
01.09.2006	Congressman Poe will attend Texas Air National Guard Awards tonight. The ceremony will recognize the top recruiters, manning and retention managers in the state. Congressman Poe will also attend the Officer Installation Banquet for the Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) where he will administer the oath to new members. Both events will be held at the NASA Hilton.Where: NASA Hilton (formerly Nassau Bay Hilton) 3000 Nasa Road One Clear Lake, TXWhen: TONIGHT Thursday January 12, 2006 6:30 pm (Texas Air National Guard Awards) 7:30 pm (ABC Banquet)###
12.08.2005	Today, Congressman Ted Poe issued the following statement in regards to the Immigration Crisis along our borders:Our countrys security is at serious risk. We currently have immigration laws on the books, but we continue to blatantly ignore them. We can not continue to ignore our laws or our illegal immigration problem. The 9/11 Commission Report states that Americans should not be exempt from carrying biometric passportswhen they enter the United States; nor should Canadians or MexicansThe 9/11 experience shows that terrorists study and exploit Americas vulnerabilities. . My legislation, The Passport for All Act, would end the senseless identification process we have at our Points of Entry. Exempting anyone from carrying a passport when crossing into the United States, is blatantly ignoring the Commissions suggestions and is posing yet another serious vulnerability in our countries homeland security. Requiring machine readable passports is a common sense approach to remedying the irresponsible illegal immigration crisis we have in this country. We must make real changes in our immigration policy before we loose our nation and become a nation colonized by other nations
12.08.2005	
12.07.2005	Today, Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) hosted a delegation of fellow Texas Members to meet with the Friends of Southeast Texas. The group is comprised of community leaders from Southeast Texas in an effort to bring awareness to the needs of their region in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita and create a plan for future disaster preparedness. Congressman Poe hosted the meeting in his Washington, DC office and has been working with the group to ensure that they receive equal treatment under the Federal relief efforts for both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.Members of the group were given the opportunity to meet with other Texas Congressional Members about the recovery efforts that are taking place and express the need for continued support in the area. Congress has appropriated over $62 billion for hurricane relief after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. However, about $40 billion remains unspent by FEMA. Congress is considering the Presidents request to reallocate $17 billion of this $40 billion to begin rebuilding critical infrastructure and to continue recovery efforts from the recent hurricanes. Congressman Poe has been working directly with local leaders in the community to evaluate the countys most pressing needs and will present his request to Chairman Jerry Lewis of the Appropriations Committee.Todays meeting is a continued effort on the part of local leaders and Congressman Poe to raise national awareness to those affected by the Forgotten Hurricane. There was another Hurricane besides Katrina and her devastation had the same impact on the people of southeast Texas, said Poe. I will continue to fight for the people of Jefferson County to see that they get every thing they deserve and need to get their lives back on track. Making sure that they are fairly represented and equally compensated remains my top priority.Participating in todays meeting were Friends for Southeast Texas Members: Alan Ritter, State Representative, District 21; Joe Desotel, State Representative, District 22; Mark Viator, Manager, Government Relations, BASF; Shawn Oubre, City Manager of Orange; Eddie Arnold, Jefferson County, County Commissioner; Jim Rich, President of the Beaumont Chamber of Commerce; Danielle Delgadillo, Legislative Assistant to Senator Kyle Janek; Don Fields, City Manager of Bridge City; Steve Fitzgibbons, City Manager of Port Arthur; Bishop Randy Clark; Chester Jourdan, Executive Director of South East Texas Regional Planning Commission; Eddie Bates, President and CEO of C and I Oil.Texas Congressional Members in attendance: Congressman Michael McCaul; Congressman Gene Green; Congressman Chet Edwards; Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee. Representatives from the following offices were also in attendance: Congressman Brady; Congressman Cuellar; Congressman Gonzalez; Congressman Carter; Congressman Paul Ortiz; Congressman Barton; Congressman Culberson; Congressman Sessions; Senator Cornyn; Senator Hutchison.
12.07.2005	Following Hurricane Rita, Congressman Poe and his staff immediately responded to the needs of the people in Jefferson County. Congressman Poe was in Jefferson County Sunday morning after Rita passed and personally met with First Responders on the ground, took an aerial tour with Beaumont Police of the region and Port areas.The District Office was closed because of the evacuation and power outages, but staff members were immediately relocated, and phones redirected, to the Humble office to assist constituents navigating the FEMA process and direct people to the agencies offering on-site assistance.In the weeks following, Congressman Poe and his staff held a daily conference call for ALL area officials to call in with their needs and concerns.He traveled to the area with President Bush on Air Force One and was able to take another aerial helicopter tour with him to personally point out and discuss the damage and needs of the people in Jefferson County.That same week, he returned with the Secretary of Agriculture, Mike Johanns, and met with local rice farmers and also accompanied him on an aerial tour surveying the toll Rita took on our regions farming and agriculture industry.Congressman Poe hosted a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) from the Homeland Security Subcommittee on October 30, 2005. The CODEL took and aerial tour of the Gulf Coast region from Galveston to Louisiana border. Congressman Poe and the CODEL members met with local officials in Jefferson County at Lamar University to discuss recovery efforts and federal response.The Congressional District Office has coordinated with local Chambers of Commerce to hold two informational workshops with the Small Business Association to help area business owners be better informed of assistance that is available to them. Congressman Poe met with Small Business Administration Director, Hector Barreto to emphasize the need to cut through red tape to help the businesses in Southeast Texas. The GO Loan program was announced by the SBA shortly after their meeting.On October 22, 2005, Congressman Poe was joined by over 100 constituents, 35 FEMA, Corps of Engineer and SBA representatives at a Town Hall meeting in Beaumont to update residents on what is being done on their behalf and address concerns they are having in the recovery process. Another FEMA Town Hall meeting was held on November 19, 2005, in Port Arthur. Congressman Poe was also joined by area farmers for an Agriculture Town Hall meeting on November 30, 2005. Representatives from FEMA, USDA, SBA, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Texas Department of Insurance, and Texas Department of Agriculture were on hand to answer questions and provide direct assistance.In the weeks after Hurricane Rita, Congressman Poe met personally with Homeland Security Director, Michael Chertoff, to emphasize the need for full federal funding in Southeast Texas, particular relating to our request to President Bush and FEMA for 100 percent funding of debris removal in Jefferson County. To our disappointment, FEMA denied our request.That same day, Congressman Poe addressed the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environments Hurricane Preparedness Panel about the need to discuss equalization of federal relief efforts as it applies to both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. He specifically reminded the Panel, Let me be candid, Port Arthur is just as important as New Orleans. The 40 year old levy in Port Arthur did not break, but people suffered from Hurricane Rita anyway.Congress appropriated more that $1.6 million in emergency funding for the Sabine Neches Water Way (SNWW). The funding will assist in clean up and additional dredging in recovery efforts as a result of both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Chris Fisher, Executive Director of the Port of Beaumont, expressed his gratitude of the efforts made to restore the SNWW, The Port of Beaumont is very grateful to Congressman Ted Poe for ensuring that the critical needs of maritime transportation in Southeast Texas are being met."In addition to the SNWW emergency funding, the Energy and Water Appropriations Act for FY06 allocated $30.5 billion in total spending. The Corps of Engineers will receive $5.4 billion, nearly $57 million more than 2005.Most recently on December 7, 2005, Congressman Ted Poe hosted a delegation of 14 US/Texas Congressional Members and staff representatives to meet with the Friends of Southeast Texas. The group is comprised of community leaders from Southeast Texas in an effort to bring awareness to the needs of their region in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita and create a plan for future disaster preparedness. Congressman Poe hosted the meeting in his Washington, DC office and has been working with the group to ensure that they receive equal treatment under the Federal relief efforts for both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.Current co-sponsored legislation includes, the Essential Gulf Coast Recovery Act 2005. This legislation addresses several time sensitive issues significant to the recovery efforts along the Gulf Coast. Among several provision in this Bill, will be 100 percent funding for debris removal in declared Disaster zones. It will also allow for allows the President to provide assistance to financially distressed state and local governments to cover base pay and overtime expenses for some essential response and recovery personnel. It extends the eligible period of disaster unemployment assistance from 26 to 52 weeks from the date of disaster declaration made for Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita and creates a new grant program for state and local governments to improve interoperability and survivability of emergency communications systems with $6 billion over 3 years.Congressman Poe joined Congressman Kevin Brady as a co-sponsor of the Hurricane Rita Relief Legislation that was included in the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005. This Bill allows disaster victims to make penalty-free withdrawals from an IRA. It also allows deductions of personal property losses from taxes and, for the working poor, makes sure child and earned income tax credits are not impacted by the disaster. It permits unlimited cash donations to be deducted by corporations and provides up to $2,400 per worker for small businesses to keep employees on the payroll through the end of the year. For private timber land owners in East Texas, the bill doubles the deduction they are able to take on tax filings from $10,000 to $20,000 for reforestation costs.Efforts to see that the residents of Jefferson County are treated equally and fairly represented are ongoing and continue to be a top focus for Congressman Ted Poe and his entire staff. Constituents are encouraged to contact any of our three offices with any concerns and our staff will gladly assist them.
11.29.2005	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will hold an Agriculture Town Hall Meeting for Southeast Texas farmers and producers TOMORROW. Rep. Poe will update constituents on important issues facing Southeast Texas since Hurricane Rita and what actions are being taken in Congress to assist in the recovery efforts.FEMA, USDA, SBA, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Texas Department of Insurance, and Texas Department of Agriculture will have representatives on hand to answer questions and provide assistance.WHO: Congressman Ted Poe Southeast Texas Farmers and ProducersWHEN: Wednesday, November 30, 2005 8:30 9:30amWHERE: Texas Agricultural Experiment Station 1509 Aggie Dr. Beaumont, TX 77713###
11.21.2005	Congressman Ted Poe announced today that the National Endowment for the Arts has selected the Symphony of Southeast Texas to receive a $10,000 grant. This grant is a part of the FY 2006, Challenge America Fast Track grant program, which was established to provide greater support for arts projects in underserved communities throughout the United States. The grant will be used to support concert and related school performances that feature Danzas Pelegrinas, a new work by South America composer Horacio Salinas.I commend the National Endowment for the Arts and the Symphony of Southeast Texas for their continued commitment to providing Southeast Texans with the joy of music, Congressman Poe said. Their dedication to the community is commendable and I look forward to seeing their good works unfold.###
11.16.2005	Congressman Ted Poe gladly announces that the City of Beaumont Fire Department is the latest local agency to receive a grant from the 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.These grants will provide direct assistance to thousands of fire departments throughout the country. Both local agencies will use these funds for Operation and Safety resources. Under the DHS Grant, the City of Beaumont Fire Department was awarded $960,000.00.In the days following Hurricane Rita we saw all to well the need to have our first responders properly equipped, said Congressman Poe. These grants are essential to enhancing the performance of these life saving professionals and will be a much needed boost as the recovery efforts throughout southeast Texas continue.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs, and conduct fire education and prevention programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grants ensures that the nations firefighters continue to have the basic capability they require to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives said David Paulison, Acting Undersecretary for the Department of Homeland Security's Emergency Preparedness and Response.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Departments United States Fire Administration.For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the Website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.###
11.16.2005	Congressman Ted Poe announced today that language that would benefit local rice farmers in the Transportation Treasury Spending Bill was stripped from the final bill language. The House and Senate versions of the bill attempted to enhance the market for rice farmers and included language that would allow agriculture trade with Cuba. The Conference Report stripped the language and maintains the current embargo.Congressman Poe expressed disappointment in the removal of the language and made the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives this morning,Mr. Speaker, Southeast Texas has over 40,000 acres of rice fields. Until recently, the combined acreage of rice farms in the State of Texas was more than 600,000. This is bigger than the State of Rhode Island. Hometown rice farmers like my friend Ray Stoesser, are seriously struggling. Ray, like most farmers, simply wants a more markets to sell American rice.The House and Senate versions of the Treasury, Transportation Appropriations enhanced markets and included language that would allow agricultural trade with Cuba. The Conference Report stripped out that language and maintains the current trade embargo. The Conferees refusal to allow rice trade with Cuba defies common sense. It places politics above American farmers like Ray Stoesser, not to mention, it is bad for the economy.The Cuban people will continue to eat rice. If we do not sell it to them, they will get it from other communist nations like Vietnam.We hear talk of free trade, NAFTA and CAFTA. We trade with the communists in China. Not selling rice to Cuba does not punish Castro and his communists. It punishes American rice farmers. Mr. Speaker, this ought not be.###
11.09.2005	Congressman Ted Poe applauds the announcement by the Small Business Administration to establish the Gulf Opportunity Loan Program aimed at giving small companies expedited loans to help recover and rebuild Gulf Coast communities devastated by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Under the GO Loan Program, SBA will guarantee loans up to $150,000 for small businesses that are located in or moving to areas that have been declared major disaster zones as a result of the hurricanes.GO Loans will be available immediately through Sept. 30, 2006. They are available to small businesses in the counties and parishes of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and western Florida that are included in the Presidential disaster declarations for Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the contiguous counties and parishes. The loans will be modeled on SBAExpress loans, which are made by commercial lenders and carry an SBA guarantee. Under the GO Loan program, the SBA will guarantee the loans at 85 percent. Lenders will generally use their own paperwork and be responsible for evaluating the creditworthiness of applicants. The decision on whether to apply an SBA guaranty to the loans will be made on an expedited basis, with an anticipated turnaround by the SBA of 24 hours or less.Congressman Poe recently met with SBA Administrator, Hector Barreto, and addressed the concerns and needs of business owners in Jefferson County. Congressman Poe stressed the need for immediate assistance to get the economy back on its feet in the wake of Hurricane Rita. Getting people back in business and back to work is a number one concern in Jefferson County, said Poe. This is an emergency situation and should be treated as one, with as little bureaucracy getting in the way as possible.Barreto has traveled to the Gulf Coast region and is aware of the need to offer immediate assistance to those affected by both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. "Through my visits with small business owners in the Gulf Coast, it has become clear that the unprecedented scope and magnitude of these twin disasters requires a more creative response beyond our traditional disaster loan program," Barreto said in a prepared statement. "We are going to get financing to small businesses as quickly as we can so that they can continue with the urgent reconstruction of their local economies."For complete information on the Gulf Opportunity Pilot Loan Program and other opportunities available, please visit the SBA website, www.sba.gov.###
11.02.2005	Congressman Ted Poe announced today that as a result of damage assessments in the Southeast Texas region, $20,154,000 in additional funding will be requested for the Sabine-Neches Waterway (SNWW) for hurricane recovery efforts. Congress has appropriated over $62 billion for hurricane relief after Katrina and Rita. However, about $40 billion remains unspent by FEMA. The White House submitted to Congress last Friday an updated third emergency supplemental request to reallocate $17 billion of this $40 billion to begin rebuilding critical infrastructure and to continue recovery efforts from the recent hurricanes. Of this $17 billion, $1.6 billion will go to the Army Corps of Engineers as part of their assessments of damage recovery after the storms.Congressman Poe has been working extensively with the Army Corps of Engineers in the aftermath of both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita to perform these assessments. I have long supported more money for the Corps of Engineers to operate and maintain the waterway sufficiently, said Poe. This critical funding will allow the Sabine-Neches Waterway to immediately begin the clean up and improve the flow of commerce which contributes greatly to the economy of Southeast Texas.Damage assessed by Hurricane Katrina is estimated at $15,154,000, while damage from Hurricane Rita is estimated at $5,000,000. These funds will be used to dredge the waterway as a result of shoaling, which is caused when sand and dirt settles on the bottom of the channel; restricting traffic and creating unsafe conditions for navigation. A majority of this emergency money will be used to dredge the entrance channel and main channel where the waterway meets the Gulf of Mexico, which was severely damaged when Hurricane Rita came ashore. According to the Army Corps of Engineers, ships are having to utilize high tide periods to enter the channel because ships do not have the required 40 foot depth to navigate the channel.Chris Fisher, Executive Director of the Port of Beaumont, expressed his gratitude of the efforts made to restore the SNWW. The Sabine-Neches Waterway has not been adequately funded for the last several years, and it is our understanding that the channel will now be restored to the depth that is required to handle the marine commerce that is vital to our region and to the nations defense. The Port of Beaumont is very grateful to Congressman Ted Poe for ensuring that the critical needs of maritime transportation in Southeast Texas are being met."Raymond Russo, Program Manager for Civil Programs for the Army Corps of Engineers Southwestern Division also hailed the news, With the emergency supplemental request and the amounts appropriated for FY06, the Sabine-Neches Waterway will be dredged for navigation at its authorized project depth.In addition to the $20,154,000 in emergency funding, the Sabine-Neches Waterway is also scheduled to receive $13,478,000 in federal funding in the normal annual appropriations for Fiscal Year 2006.###
11.02.2005	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will hold two town hall meetings this coming Saturday, November 5, 2005 in Harris County. Congressman Poe will update constituents on the latest in Congress and recent Legislation that he has introduced. Among these topics, Congressman Poe traveled to the US-Mexico Border and will share details of his visit with local law enforcement agencies there, as well as his Passport for All Act. Representatives from FEMA will also be on hand to answer questions about Hurricane Recovery Relief throughout the Texas Gulf Coast.SPRING TOWN HALL10am -11amSalyers Elementary SchoolCafeteria25705 Hardy St.Spring, TX 77373-2684CHAMPIONS TOWN HALLNoon 1pmNorthwoods Presbyterian ChurchGymnasium3320 FM 1960 WHouston, TX 77068###
10.18.2005	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will be introducing his Passport For All Act this week before Congress. This Legislation would require a passport for all people who enter the United States from foreign countries, without exception. Congressman Poe will travel to the Texas/Mexico border this weekend to meet with Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) officials to discuss the challenges they are faced with in identifying immigrants as they enter the United States. During this visit, Congressman Poe will tour the entire border region of Laredo, Texas and Nuevo Laredo, Mexico to get a first hand look at the immigration crisis.The Passport for All Act will put an end to the burden placed on CBP to identify hundreds of accepted documents of identification from all around the world. Our border officials have to determine in a very short period of time whether the individual before them can be taken for their word or whether the countless number of different types of documents they could be presented with are genuine. We can not reasonably expect border agents to genuinely identify every state drivers license or every state issued birth certificate. Requiring a passport will increase safety and will reduce border wait times as officials will be trained to review and identify one document rather than the hundreds currently being accepted.A passport has become the standard document that allows for the quick and safe inspection of visitors traveling between international borders throughout the world. However, the current Western Hemisphere passport exception does not require a passport for travel to and from the United States within North America. This policy is outdated and dangerous in a post 9/11 world.This passport exception allows U.S. citizens to travel to contiguous territories and adjacent islands of the U.S. and return to the U.S. without presenting a passport. Similarly, foreign visitors who travel from these same contiguous territories and adjacent islands, on the basis of reciprocity, are also waived from the requirement to present a passport for entry into the United States.While the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, which passed last year, contained a section designed to eliminate this exception, it did so by requiring a regulatory plan rather than a statutory change. Recent attempts in Congress to block funding to implement or alter this plan have become common. This is why the Passport for All Act is so important because it finally puts into law the requirement that passports must be used and inspected for ALL foreign travel into the U.S.The vulnerability of our borders is a major threat to our security as a nation. Before a May 13, 2003 Judiciary Subcommittee hearing, it was reported that convicted Washington, D.C. area sniper John Allen Muhammad found ''a fertile market,'' primarily among Jamaican nationals, in forged U.S. documents; producing and selling U.S. driver's licenses with photographs and corresponding birth certificates. Further, at a January 2003 hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, the Government Accountability Office's (GAO) Office of Special Investigations described how easy it was for travelers to enter the United States using counterfeit documents and aliases. GAO agents created fictitious driver's licenses and birth certificates and presented those documents at ports of entry along the Canadian and Mexican borders and entering from Jamaica. The INS and Customs Service officials to whom those documents were presented never questioned the authenticity of those documents, and the agents presenting those documents encountered no difficulty using them. It is time we heed these warnings stated in the 9/11 Commission Report and do away with this dangerous Western Hemisphere passport exception that leaves our borders vulnerable.###
10.18.2005	Congressman Ted Poe will introduce local leaders from the 2nd Congressional District of Texas TOMORROW at the Committee on Homeland Security Hearing: Federalism and Disaster Response: Examining the Role and Responsibilities of Local, State and Federal Authorities. Texas Governor Rick Perry, Harris County Judge Robert Eckels and Beaumont Mayor Pro Tem Audwin Samuel will testify before the committee investigating the respective roles and responsibilities of local, State and Federal agencies and personnel in disaster management and response.Every year, the United States is hit by numerous disasters, both large and small. Most emergencies even disasters are adequately handled at the local level, usually by local fire and police departments. This hearing will address a number of issues critical to the intergovernmental challenges posed by catastrophic events: (1) what the current roles and responsibilities of local, State, and Federal entities are with respect to preparing for and responding to acts of terrorism and other major disasters; (2) whether these historic roles should be re-examined post-Hurricane Katrina, particularly with respect to catastrophic events; (3) whether the Federal government is appropriately leveraging existing local and State resources and expertise; (4) whether the National Response Plan, as drafted, adequately enhances intergovernmental coordination; and (5) what additional partnerships, if any, municipal, State, and Federal agencies need to create to more effectively coordinate their missions and enhance existing operational capabilities.WHO: Congressman Ted Poe makes brief remarks during introductions of Texas OfficialsWHAT: Committee on Homeland Security, Federalism and Disaster Response: Examining the Role and Responsibilities of Local, State and Federal Authorities.WHEN: TOMORROW, October 19, 2005 10am ESTWHERE: Cannon House Office Building, 311 Washington, DC###
10.18.2005	Congressman Ted Poe sent a letter of request to President Bush to grant an extension to the original Federal Grant issued for debris removal assistance in Jefferson County. The proposed extension would allow for an additional month of funding at 100% to aid in the countys recovery operations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) last week announced a Federal grant for the State of Texas associated with Hurricane Rita. The original funding includes $32,640,000, to Jefferson County to assist with debris removal throughout the county as a result of the damage caused by Rita and goes through October 27, 2005.FEMA reminds private property owners, caution is key when removing hurricane debris. Debris removal and disaster recovery go hand in hand. Federal and state recovery officials encourage residents to be cautious when removing storm debris from homes and roadways. The rubbish may contain any number of dangerous items.Property owners will want to check with their local jurisdictions regarding debris removal schedules.Here are some safety guidelines to follow: Keep children away from debris piles. They can be full of broken materials, glass, nails, jagged wood, and other sharp items. Children can easily get injured playing in, around, or on trash heaps. The debris may also contain rodents or bugs, raising the possibility of bites. Watch children carefully when heavy equipment is in the area and debris removal operations are taking place. Small children may not be easily seen by equipment operators. Keep all open flames and lit cigarettes away from debris piles as they may contain flammable materials. Move your car from the debris pile area. This will make it easier for the equipment operator to pick up the materials and will reduce the possibility of damage to vehicle. Drive carefully when behind debris-loaded trucks. Materials can easily shift and fly out, causing an accident or driving hazard. Leave a safe distance between your car and the truck.###
10.18.2005	Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) will hold a Town Hall Meeting for Jefferson County residents this Saturday, October 22, 2005, in Beaumont, Texas. Rep. Poe will update constituents on important issues facing Southeast Texas since Hurricane Rita and what actions are being taken in Congress to assist in the recovery efforts. Representatives from FEMA will be at the meeting to address questions and concerns from Jefferson County residents as they apply to their agency and assistance programs.WHO: Congressman Ted Poe and Staff, FEMA RepresentativesWHAT: Jefferson County Town Hall MeetingWHEN: Saturday, October 22, 2005 10am 11amWHERE: Three Rivers Council Boy Scout Service Center 4650 Cardinal Drive (1st exit off of Hwy 69 South) Board Room Beaumont, TX###
09.14.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today the Child Safety Act of 2005 overwhelmingly passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by 371-52. This comprehensive bi-partisan legislation was designed to protect children from sex offenders and other criminals. This measure includes all of the provisions offered by Congressman Poe in his first bill, the Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) and includes a Training and Technology Amendment to provide law enforcement with the funding and latest technologies to deal with internet crimes against children.Congressman Poe was proud of the actions of Congress by saying, This is a victory for our children. The Child Safety Act of 2005 will help close loopholes in current sex offender notification requirements and protect our children from those predators lurking in their communities. The Technology Amendment was a crucial part of this Legislation - without the properly equipping law enforcement, these cases would not be investigated and prosecuted effectively. By giving the good guys the advanced tools and knowledge we can effectively meet the challenges of internet crimes against our children.Mark Lunsford, father of Jessica Lunsford, expressed his gratitude today, I appreciate all the hard work and effort Congressman Poe, along with Congresswoman Jenny Brown-Waite and Chairman James Sensenbrenner, put into making this happen.Elaine Stolte of The Childrens Assessment Center of Houston was elated by the news, On behalf of the many children who have been sexually abused, we applaud Congressman Poe for his continued efforts in the prevention of cyber solicitation of our children. This amendment to the Child Safety Act will provide needed information to support law enforcement in combating internet crimes against children. We are so grateful to have Congressman Poe in Washington giving a voice to thousands of children, whose voices would otherwise go unheard.The Child Safety Act was drafted in response to the recent kidnappings, rapes, and murders of several children like Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, and Jetseta Gage, the Childrens Safety Act of 2005 addresses numerous elements of crime against children including: violent crimes, sexual crimes and exploitation, as well as protection of foster and adopted children. Inspired by Congressman Poes Child Predator Act, the Childrens Safety Act will feature components such as a concrete definition of a child predator, the escalation of non-compliance with registration requirements to a federal felony, community notification for all sex offenders (including child predators) who enter a new community, a free online database accessible to law enforcement and parents, and specifications for the timely update of this database even for those sex offenders crossing state lines.Representative Poe co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus that he founded this session of Congress. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.###
08.11.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today he signed on to H. Res. 360, a House resolution recognizing the 60th Anniversary of V-J Day and the end of World War II in the Pacific.Our country owes a debt of gratitude towards those who fought and won World War II in the Pacific, Representative Poe said. We owe our lives and our liberty to The Greatest Generation of our time. The courage and sacrifice of the members of the United States Armed Forces and of the military forces of the Allied Powers who served valiantly to rescue the Pacific nations from tyranny and aggression should always be remembered.The House Resolution will express respect and appreciation to the members of the United States Armed Forces who served during World War II; and remember and honor those Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice and gave their lives for their country during the campaigns in the Pacific.Japan is now a free and prosperous democracy with shared values and mutual interests, and against oppression in that area of the world because of the sacrifices our troops made on foreign soil, said Poe. We must never forget the contributions those soldiers made in the Pacific as we must remember and respect the role of all Veterans throughout our country and abroad today in Iraq and Afghanistan.The United States entered the Second World War in December 1941, following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, and over the next four years Americans participated in what was one of the greatest national endeavors in the Nation's history.The casualty toll of Americans in the Pacific Theater during World War II was approximately 92,904 killed, 208,333 wounded, and tens of thousands missing in action and prisoners of war, with civilians and military forces of the Allied Powers suffering equally devastating tolls.On August 15, 1945, Emperor Hirohito of Japan announced the unconditional surrender of Japan's military forces, made formal on September 2, 1945, aboard the U.S.S. Missouri in Tokyo Bay, Japan; thus ending the most devastating war in human history.Congressman Poe salutes the Veterans throughout the country and abroad and also in his district which includes Northern Harris, Southern Liberty and Jefferson Counties in Texas.###
08.09.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe was honored by the National Organization for Victim Assistance (NOVA) today for his work on behalf of victims of crime. NOVA presented Congressman Poe with the Morton Bard Allied Professional Award at their 31st Annual Conference in Atlanta.The primary duty of government is to protect its citizens we as a people are not judged by the way we treat the rich, the famous, influential, powerful, but by the way we treat the weak, the innocent. We must arm our communities against predators and we must fight for those who are victimized, said Representative Poe. I am proud to stand with NOVA in addressing the plight of victims. It is an honor to accept this award and I look forward to working with NOVA and continuing the fight for victims rights. Congressman Poe received the award for his contributions to victims assistance in Congress. This year Congressman Poe has spearheaded the effort to save Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding and was instrumental in the creation of the Child Safety Bill which incorporated his child predator bill. The VOCA Fund is a crucial resource, on which many communities and organizations rely. It assists rape crisis centers; domestic violence shelters; and victims cover court costs, funeral services, and medical expenses. Congressman Poe led a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress that urged Chairman Jerry Lewis to continue VOCA funds. The coalition teamed up with the nations leading victims groups in a massive grassroots effort and was successful. The FY06 Science, Department of State, Justice, and Commerce and related agencies appropriations bills language did not include the rescission of VOCA funds. Most recently he was instrumental in the crafting of H.R. 3132, the Children's Safety Act. The House Judiciary Committee overwhelmingly approved this legislation which addresses the growing epidemic of violence against children, and enhances the safety of children from convicted sex offenders through coordinated State sex offender registration and notification programs. Drafted in response to the recent kidnappings, rapes, and murders of several children like Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, and Jetseta Gage, this new legislation includes provisions from Congressman Poes Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) that he introduced in mid-March. The Morton Bard Allied Professional Award recognizes individuals whose primary profession is not in direct victim services but who often went outside their traditional professional arena to develop innovations that helped victims, or who provide extraordinary care for victims, or who became policy advocates on behalf of victims. Morton Bard was a psychologist who wrote the first book on responding to victims of crime in 1979, "The Crime Victims Handbook." He also wrote the first law enforcement training materials on domestic violence in 1972, and followed up over the years with volunteer work in training for victim service providers and law enforcement officers. He served on the NOVA Board of Directors.Since being elected to Congress, Poe has focused on being a victims advocate. Spearheading the effort to protect VOCA funding, Congressman Poe co-chairs the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus that he founded. Poe has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues. ###
08.02.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will hold a press conference today to announce over $10 million in earmarks he obtained for Jefferson County as part of H.R. 3, the Transportation Bill (the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act - A Legacy for Users or SAFETEA-LU).This six-year bill provides $286 billion for the federal highway, transit and highway safety programs throughout the United States. The money obtained for Jefferson County will be used for intermodal projects at the Port of Beaumont and the Sabine Neches Waterway, to extend and widen Jefferson County roads and to create streetscape improvements throughout the county.The funding was approved for use for the following projects:Port of Beaumont Intermodal Improvements $5,190,400Funding will improve access and operational capabilities for the Port of Beaumont including surface transportation infrastructure modifications to facilitate direct intermodal interchange, transfer, and access into and out of the port.Dowlen Road Extension $2,764,800The city will receive assistance to extend Dowlen Road in Beaumont from U.S. 90 (College Street) to Walden Road to be comprised of a four-lane divided road with left turn lanes at intersections. Upon completion, this will provide an additional corridor between the north and south sides of the city and is expected to reduce congestion. It will also provide increased access to over 630 acres of commercial, industrial and residential properties.Washington Boulevard Widening $2,080,000Funding will widen Washington Boulevard in Beaumont from Langhan Road to FM 364 (Major Drive) to a four lane street with a continuous left turn lane. The project will provide an east/west corridor through the southeast and southwest areas of Beaumont from Spur 380 to FM 364 (Major Drive). The widening will result in a four-lane facility that will improve access to industrial and commercial areas on the east and west side of the city.Willow Street Improvements $512,000Improvements include the installation of brick-paved sidewalks, decorative lighting, new traffic signal poles, street and informational signing and the rehabilitation of the streets, curbs and gutters.Orange County Access Road $1,056,000Port of Beaumont East Bank Neches to I-10 Access Road $1,440,000Assistance will go toward development and construction of both access roads connecting the I-10 access road to the Port of Beaumont owned property along the east bank of the Neches River in Orange County.Congressman Poe (who serves on the Transportation Committee and co-sponsored H.R. 3) worked with members of the Texas delegation to ensure that Beaumont received money for high priority projects including new roads, better bridges, and streetscape improvements. The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the bill by a vote of 417-9 in March and the Bill is expected to be signed by the President next week.###
07.29.2005	U.S. Representative Ted Poe announced today some of the key events in which he will participate during the U.S. House of Representatives work period August 1 August 5.Monday, August 1 Breakfast with the Congressman Humble-Area Congressional Office 20202 U.S. Highway 59 North, Suite 150 8:00 am 9:00am Luncheon Speech to the Womens Political Forum Courtyard at St. James Place 1885 St. James Place (off San Felipe) 11:30 am 12:30 pm Fireside Chat with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Sponsored by the Kingwood Chamber of Commerce Heritage Center, 2825 West Center Circle, Kingwood 6:00 pm - 7:30 pmTuesday, August 2 Meet with local Law Enforcement Law Enforcement Breakfast Golden Corral Family Steak House 9663 FM 1960 7:00 am 8:00 am Luncheon Speech to the Baytown Chamber of Commerce Goose Creek Country Club 5000 Country Club Drive, Baytown 12:00 noon Pruitt and Shannon Radio Show KFNC 97.5 FM - Houston 4:05-4:20 pm Central Standard Time Baytown Neighborhood Night Out Congressman Poe will attend six Neighborhood Night Out gatherings around Baytown Various Locations 6:00 pmWednesday, August 3 PRESS CONFERENCE Announcing Funding for the Port of Beaumont Southside Intermodal Project and the Port of Beaumont Port of Beaumont 10:00 am Meeting with Jefferson County Pastors First Baptist Church, Groves 4000 Grant 11:30 am Luncheon Speech to the South East Texas Regional Planning Commission First Baptist Church, Groves 4000 Grant 12:00 noon Meet with South East Texas Waterway Advisory Committee U.S. Coast Guard Command Center 2901 Turtle Creek Drive, Port Arthur 2:30 pm Jack Pieper Radio Show KLVI 560 AM - Beaumont 5:10-5:55 pm Central Standard TimeThursday, August 4 Fox Morning Blend KOLE 1340 AM - Beaumont 8:00-9:00 am Central Standard Time Dinner Speech to the American Polygraph Association Hyatt Regency Hotel San Antonio, Texas 5:30 pmFriday, August 5 First Friday in Groves Downtown Groves, TexasSaturday, August 6 Beaumont Area Town Hall Meeting Hotel Beaumont Retirement Home, Mirror Room 625 Orleans 9:00 am Mid County Town Hall Meeting Southeast Texas Regional Airport Main Terminal Media Room 6000 Airline Drive 11:00 amElected U.S. Representative in 2004, Poe represents Texas 2nd Congressional District, which takes in parts of Harris and Liberty Counties and all of Jefferson County. It includes Kingwood, Humble, Atascocita, Spring, Cleveland, Channelview, Baytown, Highlands, Crosby, Sheldon, Liberty, Dayton, Port Arthur, Groves, Nederland and Beaumont.###
07.28.2005	The House Judiciary Committee overwhelmingly approved legislation which addresses the growing epidemic of violence against children, and enhances the safety of children from convicted sex offenders through coordinated State sex offender registration and notification programs. H.R. 3132, the Children's Safety Act.A former felony court judge, Congressman Ted Poe, was instrumental in the crafting of the bill. Poe introduced his Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) earlier this year which was one of the bills considered the basis of the new legislation.The primary duty of government is to protect its citizens. We as a people are not judged by the way we treat the rich, the famous, influential, powerful, but by the way we treat the weak, the innocent the children. As a criminal court judge, I have seen first-hand what can happen if we dont arm our communities against child predators who stalk our neighborhood playgrounds, our Cub Scout dens, our houses of worship and the internet to target our youngsters or lure our kids from their own bedrooms, said Representative Poe.The Children's Safety Act will help address loopholes in current sex offender notification requirements so parents and the public can be armed with knowledge of any sex offenders lurking in their community, Rep. Poe added.H.R. 3132 Highlights Include• Improves Sex Offender Registration and Notification Program to ensure that sex offenders register, and keep current, where they reside, work and attend school• Improves verification systems for sex offender information by requiring monthly verification, sex offender in-person verification every six months, and regular notarized verification mailings• Requires States to have a uniform, public access sex offender registration website• Creates Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website to search for sex offender information in each community• Expands sex offenders to include juvenile sex offenders• Requires States to notify each other when sex offender moves from one State to another• Expands sex offenses covered by registration and notification requirements to include military, tribal, foreign, sex crimes, and increases duration of registration requirements to protect the public• Expands community notification requirements to include active efforts to inform law enforcement agencies, schools, public housing, social service agencies and volunteer organizations in area where sex offender resides, works or attends school• Creates new criminal penalty of mandatory minimum of 5 years to maximum of 20 years for sex offender who fails to comply with registration requirements• Expands law enforcement use of DNA to solve sex crimes• Prevents and deters violent crimes against children and sexual exploitation of children• Protects foster children from sexual abuse and exploitation• Increases criminal penalties against child sexual predators.Chairman Sensenbrenner of the House Judiciary Committee commented, Those Members that have introduced provisions which have been incorporated into this legislation as well as child victim advocates deserve credit for helping push this needed legislation through the Committee. I look forward to having the full House consider this legislation in September.As a judge, Representative Poe gained national attention for his creative sentencing of criminals. Called Poetic Justice by the media, Poe imposed creative and tough sentences on criminals. Poe ordered thieves to carry signs in front of stores they stole from, required a man who abused his wife to publicly apologize on the steps of Houston City Hall and ordered sex offenders to place warning signs on their home after they served jail time. In some homicide cases, Poe ordered the killer to securely place a photo of the victim on the wall of their prison cellgiving the offender a daily reminder of his crime.Poe is widely known as a tough on crime judge and an expert on criminal and child safety issues. He serves on the boards of the National Children's Alliance in Washington, D.C. and the Children's Assessment Center of Houston. He has been awarded the Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) outstanding advocate award and continues to fight for victims as the founder of the Victims Rights Caucus in the U.S. Congress.Poe spent 22 years as a criminal court judge in Harris County (Houston), Texas--the third largest county jurisdiction in the country (behind Los Angeles County and Cook County, Illinois). He moved approximately 25,000 cases through the court system. Prior to being a judge, Poe was a chief felony prosecutor for eight years where he NEVER lost a jury trial.###
07.27.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe today welcomed one of his Southeast Texas constituents, Mrs. Stefanie Pelkey of Spring, to testify before the Committee on Veterans Affairs to address Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and the military.A problem affecting many soldiers returning from Iraq and those who served during the Gulf War, Mrs. Pelkey hopes to shed some insight on PTSD and what her husband, Captain Michael Jon Pelkey, suffered upon his return from the War in Iraq.I am proud that one of my constituents will testify before the Veterans Affairs Committee hearing this morning. Mrs. Pelkey is courageous to tell her husbands story to Congress and I am honored that I will publicly introduce her at the hearing. We must stand with our military and afford them every opportunity at home and abroad in both fighting for our country and fighting for their recovery when they return to their families, Rep. Poe said.Mrs. Pelkeys husband, Captain Michael Jon Pelkey, died on November 5, 2004 from a self-inflicted gun shot wound to the chest after being diagnosed with PTSD. Pelkey wants to tell her story to help the many soldiers who are suffering from this disorder, and to request that her husband be declared a casualty of war.She has been featured on "This Week with George Stephanopoulos" and "World News Tonight, and was scheduled to appear on "Good Morning America" this morning.In a statement, Pelkey said she wants her testimony to be helpful and to reflect well upon the military and her husband. She said she does not want her testimony used as a political tool for those opposed to the war.Mrs. Pelkey lives in Spring, Texas. She is a member of the Bammel Church of Christ where she is a Grief Facilitator. Like her husband, Mrs. Pelkey served in the Army and expected to go to Iraq upon her husband's return. The Army permitted her to resign her commission following her husband's death. Mrs. Pelkey held the rank of captain.###
07.26.2005	After 22 years as a felony criminal court judge, U.S. Representative Ted Poe (R-TX) has seen first-hand what tragedy can occur when children are victimized. Today Congressman Poe joined fellow child and crime victim advocates at a rally in support of the Childrens Safety Act of 2005 (inspired by Poes Child Predator Act of 2005--H.R. 1355) to protect children from sex offenders and other criminals.Congressman Poe was joined by John Walsh from Americas Most Wanted, Nancy Grace of Court TV and CNN, Mark Lunsford, father of Jessica Lunsford, and Judiciary Committee Chairman Sensenbrenner (the sponsor of the bill) for the announcement.The primary duty of government is to protect its citizens We as a people are not judged by the way we treat the rich, the famous, influential, powerful, but by the way we treat the weak, the innocent the children. We must arm our communities against child predators who stalk our neighborhood playgrounds, our Cub Scout dens, our houses of worship; child predators who exploit the internet to target our youngsters or lure our kids from their own bedrooms, said Representative Poe.At the press conference, John Walsh of Americas Most Wanted said, There are 550,000 sex offenders in the United States and 150,000 of those are missing and in non compliance we dont know where they are. This is about protecting our children from domestic terrorists.Nancy Grace of Court TV and CNN added, This bill is a positive change for good. These are not just statistics, these are real people, real children.Drafted in response to the recent kidnappings, rapes, and murders of several children like Jessica Lunsford, Sarah Lunde, and Jetseta Gage, this new legislation includes provisions from Congressman Poes Child Predator Act of 2005 (H.R. 1355) that he introduced in mid-March.Congressman Poes provisions from the Child Predator Act that were adopted in the new Childrens Safety Act of 2005 include: Defines the term child predator as a person who has been convicted of a sexual offense against a victim who is a minor if the offense is sexual in nature and the minor is age 13 years old or younger. Requires child predators to report a change in residence. Requires community notification Child predators would have to notify outlets such as public schools and public housing. Classifies non-compliance as a federal felony child predators who fail to register would be charged with a felony. Mandates a national database available on a free access internet website.Poe is widely known as a tough on crime judge and an expert on criminal and child safety issues. He serves on the boards of the National Children's Alliance in Washington, D.C. and the Children's Assessment Center of Houston. He has been awarded the Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) outstanding advocate award and continues to fight for victims as the founder of the Victims Rights Caucus in the U.S. Congress.Poe spent 22 years as a criminal court judge in Harris County (Houston), Texas--the third largest county jurisdiction in the country (behind Los Angeles County and Cook County, Illinois). He moved approximately 25,000 cases through the court system. Prior to being a judge, Poe was a chief felony prosecutor for 8 years where he NEVER lost a jury trial.In addition to CASA Outstanding Advocate, Rep. Poe has been named Outstanding National Victim Advocate, National Victims Center; Outstanding Judge, Foundation for Improvement of Justice; Outstanding Judge, Kansas Peace Officers Association; Outstanding Young Lawyer, Houston Bar Association; Outstanding Instructor, Texas District Attorneys Association; Outstanding District Judge, Houston Police Officers Association; and Outstanding District Judge, Harris County Deputy Sheriffs Association (twice).As a judge, Rep. Poe gained national attention for his creative sentencing of criminals. Called Poetic Justice by the media, Poe imposed creative and tough sentences on criminals. Poe ordered thieves to carry signs in front of stores they stole from, required a man who abused his wife to publicly apologize on the steps of Houston City Hall and ordered sex offenders to place warning signs on their home after they served jail time. In some homicide cases, Poe ordered the killer to securely place a photo of the victim on the wall of their prison cellgiving the offender a daily reminder of his crime.###
07.21.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe today commended the Federal Aviation Administration and the Air Traffic Controllers Association for two improvements to airline traffic at George Bush Intercontinental Airport.The FAA and the Air Traffic Controllers announced they are redefining the Class B Airspace around Houston and expanding the Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) facility at Bush-IAH.In redefining Class B airspace, the approach of airplanes (or intercept altitude) will be raised by 1000 feet. This approach change should allow for a reduction in noise from the current low-flying aircraft to the surrounding airport neighborhoods.The FAA also announced that expansion of Bushs TRACON will be complete by 2009. The TRACON facility controls aircraft approaching and departing out to about 50 miles from the airport. TRACON "sees" aircraft using radar. TRACON operators control specifically defined and limited sections of airspace and ensure that all aircraft entering or departing the airspace are kept separated at safe distances. An expanded TRACON should help reduce noise by assisting controllers in better sequencing traffic arriving and departing Bush-IAH.Many of my constituents have raised concerns about the increased airport noise since 2003 and we are all relieved to know that the FAA and the Air Traffic Controllers also see there is a problem. Many of the Air Traffic Controllers live in affected neighborhoods and know these changes will bring much needed improvements. As an Humble resident for more than 20 years, I have seen and heard first-hand the effect of living near Bush-Intercontinental Airport, Representative Poe said. I am grateful the airport is working with the local homeowners to make improvements regarding the noise in and around the airport.This announcement comes only a few weeks after Bush-IAH announced that a new runway would be constructed south of the existing runway (Runway 9-27) and would put subdivisions currently being built in Atascocita and Humble directly in the airports flight path. A second runway is also proposed for the northern portion of Bush-IAH affecting neighborhoods in northern Humble and southern Kingwood.George Bush-Intercontinental Airport is vital to our economy, serves Houstons most important economic engine, and is a key element of Southeast Texas transportation system. It is responsible for over 118,000 jobs, $19.4 billion in sales, and $5.6 billion in personal income. However, neighborhoods around Bush are experiencing unbearable noise from the low-flying aircraft. We must all work together as responsible neighbors to make improvements that benefit all involved, Poe said.Congressman Poe, who is in his first term in the U.S. House of Representatives, serves on the Aviation Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Poe has had numerous hearings and meetings with top FAA and Air Traffic Control officials on raising the approach altitude and the need for TRACON improvements. His district includes most of the neighborhoods surrounding Bush-Intercontinental Airport. He has lived in Humble, less than 10 miles from Bush-Intercontinental Airport, for more than 20 years.###
07.19.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe released the following statement regarding President Bush's nomination of John G. Roberts to the United States Supreme Court.I applaud the President's diligent and thoughtful nomination of an exceptional individual -- John G. Roberts --to replace retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Rep. Poe said. Judge Roberts possesses a respectable tradition of service as a jurist to our nation and I trust that my colleagues in the Senate from both sides of the aisle will converge to deliver a swift confirmation.Since entering Congress in January, Judge Poe has emerged as a vocal representative on the House floor regarding recent Supreme Court decisions as well as the use of foreign court opinions in the interpretation of America's laws.Congressman Poe served six-terms as a felony district court judge in Harris County, Texas before his election to the U.S. House of Representatives. As a judge, Poe gained national attention for his innovative sentencing techniques in punishing criminals ranging from ordering thieves to carry signs in front of stores from which they stole to requiring a man who abused his wife to publicly apologize on the steps of Houston's City Hall.###
06.22.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe has joined a multi-state, bipartisan delegation of almost 90 members of the U.S. House of Representatives as a co-sponsor of H.R. 1898, the Telephone Excise Tax Repeal Act of 2005, which aims to disconnect a 107 year-old federal excise tax on telecommunications services.Introduced in 1898 as a temporary luxury tax to defray costs of the Spanish-American War, today in excess of 100 million American households across the nation still pay an excise on their telecommunications services such as land lines, cell phones, and dial-up internet connection. Assessed to not just local service but also premium features like long-distance, toll charges, call waiting, caller ID, directory assistance, and wireless services; this tax continues to burden consumers.For far too long well over 100 years Americans have been pumped dry by a tax on the telephone while once considered a luxury good is now a necessity. Perhaps this tax was suitable in the late 1800s when we were forced to fund an offensive launched upon us by Europeans. Today, however, it is detrimental to innovation and should be disconnected. As Benjamin Franklin said, But in this world, nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes, Rep. Poe said. I commend my colleague from California Representative Gary Miller for introducing this right-thinking legislation.Initially used to finance the three-month Spanish-American War, the phone tax remained in place until 1916 when it was briefly repealed for a year. Later reinstated to buffer World War I expenditures, the telephone tax was repealed toward the wars end, and then reinstated again at a higher rate of 25% during World War II. Though scheduled to be phased out in 1964, the tax was ultimately retained and made permanent in 1990. The Clinton Administration vetoed a measure in 2000 that would have finally eliminated this tax.Contrary to the gas tax revenues from which are shuttled into the Highway Trust Fund telephone tax proceeds are deposited in the General Treasury. Currently, the luxury tax is also levied upon airplane tickets, firearms, beer and liquor, and cigarettes.###
06.20.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that the FY06 Science, Department of State, Justice, and Commerce and related agencies appropriations bills language did not include the rescission of Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funds. The VOCA Fund is a crucial resource, on which many communities and organizations rely. It assists rape crisis centers; domestic violence shelters; and victims cover court costs, funeral services, and medical expenses.This is an encouraging first step in the appropriations process, Rep. Poe said. It is our hope that the Senate and conferees will continue to protect this vital funding stream for victims. Rescinding any amount, all or part, of the VOCA Fund which is comprised of fees, fines, and forfeitures collected from criminals not taxpayer money would constitute an unforgivable travesty that would only re-victimize crime victims.Congressman Poe led the bipartisan coalition of Member of Congress to urge Chairman Jerry Lewis to continue the funds. The coalition teamed up with the nations leading victims groups in a massive grassroots effort.Judge Poes passionate commitment to protecting abused and neglected children has been instrumental to restoring critical VOCA funds to the budget, said U.S. Representative Jerry Lewis (CA-41), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. His voice and actions in Congress reflect the same common-sense, no-nonsense style he brought to the bench in Texas.The extraordinary effort of our Congressional allies, spearheaded by Representative Ted Poe clearly turned the tide in a crucial budget battle where the very survival of thousands of victim organizations, and the lives of the countless victims, hung in the balance, David Beatty, Executive Director, Justice Solutions said.Victims and survivors deserve a helping hand to guide them through their darkest hours in order to turn tragedy into triumph and VOCA enables MADD and other victim service organizations to be that helping hand, MADD National President, Wendy J. Hamilton said.Under the proposed Budget, the over $1.2 billion currently housed in the Crime Victims Fund was in grave danger of rescission. Enacted through the initiative of President Ronald Reagan, the Victims of Crime Act pays for victims services and compensations. It operates on money collected from criminal offenders not taxpayers that is then placed in the Crime Victims Fund. There are approximately 4,400 agencies that depend upon VOCAs victim assistance funds to provide direct services to 3.6 million crime victims annually. An additional 165,000 victims received some $434 million (state and VOCA funds) in crime victim compensation benefits. Currently, VOCA is the only federal program that supports services to victims of all types of crime: homicide fatalities, drunk driving, elder financial exploitation, identity theft, robbery, and rape.Spearheading the effort to protect VOCA funding, Congressman Poe co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus that he founded this session of Congress. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.###
06.17.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that an amendment he offered to H.R. 2745, the United Nations Reform Act of 2005, passed last night by a vote of 402-14.The amendment requires the Office of Management and Budget to give a yearly report to Congress on all contributionswhether they be assessed, voluntary, or in-kindthat the United States gives to the United Nations. By keeping track of the contributions, the United States will be more capable of holding the United Nations accountable for the way it spends its members money and makes use of its members contributions.The United States will never be able to hold the United Nations accountable if we dont know where our aid is going once we hand it over to them, Poe said. I commend Chairman Hyde for spearheading this effort to investigate and hold the UN accountable for their actionsPoe had broad bipartisan support and he was praised by his colleagues for offering the amendment. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) said, So often in-kind contributions like airlift for military operations in no way gets on the ledger, so we do not have a thorough and a full accounting of the U.S. contribution and how the money is spent. I commend and thank the gentleman for his amendment.The amendment was part of the U.N. Reform Act that passed the House today by a vote of 221-184.###
06.17.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today he voted for H.R. 2862, the Science, Department of State, Justice, and Commerce appropriations bill.The bill spends $57.45 billion and provides additional funding for local and state governments to help fight crime. The bill restores more than $1 billion in proposed cuts to state and local law enforcement assistance programs. Also included in the bill is a $542 million increase from last year to help the FBI further fight terrorism.Congressman Poe supported amendments that strengthened enforcement of illegal immigration. These include a provision that forbids localities from preventing their police officers from asking for or reporting immigration information to the federal government. This amendment is necessary because presently many cities have so-called "sanctuary" policies, which prohibit local police from asking about a person's immigration status or reporting illegal aliens who commit crimes to immigration authorities for deportation. Congressman Poe also supported an amendment that furthers reimbursement of state and local governments for costs associated with incarcerating criminal illegal aliens in their facilities.Federal and state government partnership is critical to addressing the immigration problem facing this country, Poe said. Passing this amendment will help our people on the front lines to protect our communities without draining their essential resources.Congressman Poe also voted in favor of two amendments that increased funding for the Community Oriented Policing (COPS) program. The COPS program provides assistance to eligible police departments to help improve community policing efforts and law enforcement support activities. The program requires at least 85% of grant money to be used for the following: (1) to hire or rehire police officers; (2) procure equipment; (3) pay overtime; or (4) build support systems. Poe met with Beaumont City Council members earlier this year who expressed their support for furthering the COPS program.The COPS program has proven that it works and I am glad that we were able to add additional money to this important program. Poe said.The bill was passed by a bipartisan vote of 418-7.###
06.16.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe joined fellow lawmakers and Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) president Wendy Hamilton in a press conference this morning to support the Lautenberg-DeWine Drunk Driving Amendment to H.R. 3, the Highway Bill. The amendment has passed the Senate and the bill is now in conference.The amendment affects those considered higher-risk impaired drivers.Higher-Risk impaired drivers are:ï Repeat Offenders convicted of a second driving-under-the-influence (DUI) offense within a 7-year period;ï High-BAC offenders convicted of a DUI offense with a BAC of .15% of higher; and/orï Driving while suspended (DWS) where the suspension was the result of a DUI conviction;The amendment includes the following penalties to be imposed upon high risk impaired drivers:ï One year license suspensionminimum 45-day suspension of all driving privileges plus optional alcohol interlock installed for remainder of one-year period.ï Vehicle Impoundment vehicle driven at time of arrest must be impounded or immobilized for 45 days minimum, followed by installation of an ignition interlock device for up to remainder of a year if driver obtains provisional hardship license.ï Mandatory Incarceration10 days imprisonment or 100 days electronic monitoring.ï Mandatory Alcohol Abuse Assessment and TreatmentIf diagnosed with a substance abuse problem by a certified State substance abuse official, must attend treatment program for first 12 consecutive months of probation period, meeting with case manager at least once a month.The amendment does not assess any new penalty for states that do not comply with this program. It merely preserves the current transfer of funds from highway construction programs to impaired driver programs for states that do not meet the federal standard. The amendment is based on recommendations from Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), National Transportation Safety Board and The Century Council.I commend my colleagues in the Senate for passing this important amendment. Poe said. I believe in holding criminals accountable for their actions. It is critical that leniency for drunk drivers does not result in repeat offenses.Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ), Senator Mike DeWine (R-OH), Senator John Warner (R-VA), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Congressman Sherwood Boehlert (R-NY) also spoke at the press conference.Spearheading the effort to protect victims, Congressman Poe co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus that he founded in March. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues.###
06.14.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe released the following statement to commemorate Flag Day:June 14th marks Flag Day and the 228th birthday of Old Glory. An honorable symbol of this nation, the Stars and Stripes stand for freedom, independence, and the American Dream. Particularly during times of war like that of today the flag represents the millions of soldiers and veterans that have fought for the United States and those that continue to combat terror, tyranny, and treachery to protect our country.###
06.14.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that Port Neches Groves High School senior Robyn Voight will represent Texas 2nd Congressional District in the 24th Annual Congressional Art Competition An Artistic Discovery.The winning pieces from across the country were unveiled today at a ceremony in Washington, DC. Voights art will be displayed for the next year in the tunnel that connects the United States Capitol and the Cannon House Office Building.Robyns artistic abilities are extremely impressive. During this era of great peril and promise at home and abroad, it is moving that when communicating through the pigment of her pastels Robyn, a member of our nations youth, depicted such a staunch patriotism. I appreciate her thoughtfulness regarding the critical contributions of our armed service personnel both past and present who have manned our frontlines during Americas hours of need. I am proud to have a piece of artwork laden with such powerful meaning represent Southeast Texas before the eyes of the thousands of people who visit the Capitol every year, Poe said.Robyns piece was a pastel entitled Salute to the Unknown. It depicts her deceased grandfather, WWII veteran Virgil Voight and her cousin Spencer Voight saluting the tomb of the Unknown Soldier.My grandfather was my inspiration for the piece, Robyn said. I wanted to honor him and thank all soldiers, dead and alive for their service to our country.April Sherman from Beaumont was the 2nd place winner and Bethany Habert from Nederland was the 3rd place winner. Their masterpieces will enjoy display in Congressman Poes Humble and Beaumont District offices for the next year.Voight will begin her college career at Lamar University this summer. She intends to double major in history and art.###
06.08.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe delivered the following remarks on the House floor this morning in support of trading rice with Cuba:Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to highlight the importance of free trade and the merits of agricultural trade particularly rice trade with Cuba. An injunction against tourism is one thing but our sanctions against Castros regime, which have been in place since 1963, should not prevent our nation from selling our farm products to the people there. Mr. Speaker, the Cuban people will eat rice. If we wont sell it to them, they will get it elsewhere. Why are we economically punishing ourselves, our farmers in the name of punishing the Communists in Cuba?The Cuban market remained closed until this body passed the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000. With the reopening mandated by this Act, rice sales to Cuba have grown to $64 million per year. But now we hear that some want to slash back this momentous trade for political reasons.The federal government [the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)] announced it was redefining the definition of payment of cash in advance a ruling which could jeopardize future trade. This bureaucracy is getting in the way of the law. As Cubans begin looking to Vietnam, Thailand, and other sources for rice, I encourage my colleagues to co-sign H.R. 1339 to further explain in simple terms to government bureaucrats that U.S. farmers should be allowed to trade with Cuba on a cash-for-crop basis.###
06.03.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will host town hall meetings on June 11th in Cleveland and Baytown. Poe will discuss a summary of the 109th Congress, legislation he has introduced to protect children, his founding of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, and other issues of interest to the District. Congressman Poe and caseworkers from his staff will be available to answer questions and open any necessary casework files. WHO: U.S. Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), district office caseworkers, and members of the District 2 community. (Public is welcome) WHEN: Saturday, June 11, 2005Cleveland: 9:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Baytown: 4:00p.m.-5:00 p.m. WHERE: Cleveland Town Hall Austin Memorial Library Auditorium 220 S. Bonham Cleveland, TX 77327 Baytown Town Hall Lee College, Tucker Hall 200 Lee Drive Baytown, TX 77520###
06.02.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that Spring resident, Betty Lee Streckfuss will serve as a representative for the State of Texas at the White House Council on Aging (WHCoA) to be held in Washington, D.C. from December 11-14, 2005.Bettys enthusiasm, energy, and compassion among the senior community made her the obvious choice to serve as a delegate this December, Poe said. She will be a superb representative of Southeast Texas and an outstanding advocate for older Americans.Streckfuss is a registered nurse and the founder and associate partner of Streckfuss and Associates a Texas based medical consulting endeavor specializing in clinical policies, procedures, and regulatory issues. Secretary of the Houston/Harris County Area Agency on Aging Advisory Council, Betty is also a County member of the Texas Silver Haired Legislature and a member of the Department of Aging Disabled Services (DADS) Stakeholder Committee. In addition to being well-published, her unique experiences have been enhanced by her speaking engagements throughout the United States, Japan, and the International Congress of Chemotherapy in Vienna.Twelve hundred delegates from throughout the country including 42 Texans will participate in this years WHCoA. At the fifth such conference in our nations history, delegates will vote on resolutions and develop implementation strategies that will help the President and Congress shape aging policies for the next ten years and beyond.The theme for the 2005 WHCoA is The Booming Dynamics of Aging: From Awareness to Action, which reflects the changing face of aging in America. The 2005 WHCoA is mandated by the Older Americans Act to focus on the interests and needs of current seniors as well as the 78 million baby boomers who will begin to turn 60 in 2006.###
05.31.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe commended the Texas Legislature for passing a budget on Sunday, which includes $16,090,050 for Battleship Texas the early 20th century battleship that weathered many of World War IIs most significant and intense campaigns.I commend the lawmakers in Austin for their diligent work this session and applaud them for appropriating over $16 million dollars to the vital preservation and educational efforts of Battleship Texas, Rep. Poe said. It is my hope that Governor Perry shares our passion for maintaining this monumental beacon of our naval and maritime history and will approve of this expenditure in the budget.In addition to making personal pleas to state lawmakers regarding the importance of allocating money for Battleship Texas, Congressman Poe also joined fellow Lone Star Congressmen John Culberson and Gene Green in submitting a federal funding request for $6 million in Fiscal Year 2006.The last remaining dreadnought (heavily armed battleship whose main guns are each of the same caliber) on the globe, Battleship Texas participated in the 1914 landing at Vera Cruz, World War I, and World War II. It is known as a pioneering battleship on account of its innovative gunnery, aviation, and radar systems.###
05.26.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that the city of Port Arthur would directly benefit from the Department of Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 1815) that passed last night in the House of Representatives. Language in the Defense Authorization Bill requires the U.S. Department of the Navy to transfer ownership of a surplus naval drydock to Port Arthur. The economic impact of this transfer could include the creation of almost 400 jobs, direct and indirect.This is a great victory for the Port of Port Arthur, Rep. Poe said. This drydock will bolster economic development, improve quality of life, and generate jobs for the community of Port Arthur.Built in 1942 for the U.S. Navy, the drydock is currently located in the Maritime Administration Beaumont Reserve Fleet where it has been since 1995. The Navy had the drydock considered excess in December of 2000 and the General Services Administration later declared the drydock surplus in February 2001.After meeting with the local Port Arthur community and Chairman Duncan Hunter from the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Poe submitted the project to the Committee earlier this year for approval.Additionally, in February, Congressman Poe cosponsored H.R. 292, which would increase from $12,000 to $100,000 the death gratuity payable to the survivors of members of the Armed Forces. This language was included in the Defense Authorization bill that passed last night.H.R. 1815 passed the House by a 390-39 margin.###
05.24.2005	As he continues his advocacy for victims rights in the House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Ted Poe recognizes May 25th as National Missing Childrens Day. Proclaimed as such by Ronald Reagan in 1983, National Missing Childrens Day reminds Americans to remain ever vigilant in the campaign to reunite missing children with their families and the importance of child protection.Since entering Congress in January, Congressman Poe has demonstrated a commitment to victims. Within one month of being sworn-in as the U.S. Representative for Texas 2nd Congressional District, Congressman Poe founded and assumed co-chairmanship of the first-ever Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, which aims to cultivate a forum for legislators to discuss the rights and concerns of victims including exploited children. In March, he introduced a bill, H.R. 1355, the Child Predator Act of 2005 in the House of Representatives to hold criminals accountable and impose tougher sentences on child predators who repeat. The Act aims to close loopholes in the current law and place tools in the hands of parents who want to safeguard their children from child predators.The Child Predator Act amends present law in six key ways:1) Defines the term child predator as a person who has been convicted of a sexual offense against a victim who is a minor if the offense is sexual in nature and the minor is age 13 years old or younger.2) Requires child predators to report a change in residence within 10 days of a move.3) Requires community notification Child predators would have to notify (at a minimum) schools, public housing, and at least 2 media outlets such as newspapers, television stations, or radio stations covering that community.4) Classifies non-compliance as a federal felony child predators who fail to register would be charged with a felony.5) Mandates a national database available on a free access internet website.6) Requires prominent designation of a convicted offender as a child predator.Currently there are more than 400,000 convicted sex offenders in the United States. Yet, 20 to 25 percent of these predators nationwide are missing and law enforcement has no idea how to track them down, Ernie Allen, President of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children said. I commend Congressman Poe for introducing this important legislation. It is a great first step towards a more effective system of protecting Americas children.The primary duty of government is to protect its citizens We as a people are not judged by the way we treat the rich, the famous, influential, powerful, but by the way we treat the weak, the innocent the children. Individuals who have been convicted for sexual assault of a child child predators desire to remain anonymous. I sponsored and introduced this bill in Congress to on one hand provide parents with more resources to protect their children from these dastardly perpetrators of evil and on the other hand subject monsters who prey on our children to the fullest degree of prosecution, Rep. Poe said.###
05.20.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe is pleased to announce that Ms. Renee Lee, a teacher at Monsignor Kelly Catholic High School in Beaumont, has been selected to participate in Gateway on the Gulf: Galveston and American Immigration, 1845-1915 a teacher institute sponsored by Humanities Texas. Forty exceptional classroom teachers from across the State will attend the institute at Open Gates Conference Center in Galveston from June 15 to 18.Informed of this opportunity by Congressman Poe, Ms. Lee has been an educator for 27 years. Currently she teaches U.S. and European history and serves as the head of the social studies department at Monsignor Kelly Catholic School.I wish to congratulate Ms. Lee on her upcoming participation in this program organized by Humanities Texas, Rep. Poe said. Her dedication to the students of Jefferson County constitutes a tremendous asset to the quality of education in our community.Gateway on the Gulf will feature presentations and workshops that will provide participants with new strategies for presenting information about the historical immigrant experience in Texas.Humanities Texas is pleased to sponsor such an exciting educational initiative, said Michael L. Gillette, Executive Director. The teachers selected for this institute will have the opportunity to explore how generations of immigrations have shaped the heritage and culture of Texas and our nation.Although most of the four-day experience is limited to selected teachers, distinguished historian H. W. Brands (author of Lone Star Nation) will deliver a public lecture in Galveston on June 17 in conjunction with the institute. In addition, Humanities Texas will make documents and curriculum related to immigration available on its website.Humanities Texas is the nonprofit state partner of the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Bob Bullock Texas State Historical Museum. Along with the Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum, Humanities Texas will sponsor Gateway on the Gulf in cooperation with the Rosenberg Library, the National Archives and Records Administration, Texas A&M University in Galveston, and the University of Texas Medical Branch. Major funding has been provided by a We the People grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. For more information, contact Kathie Tovo at (512) 440-1991 or kbtovo@humanitiestexas.org.###
05.17.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe commemorated the law enforcement community in ceremonies on Sunday in Washington, D.C. As part of National Police Week, Congressman Poe attended the Fraternal Order of Polices 24th Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service and presented a Beaumont family with a flag that had flown over the Capitol in memory of Sgt. Mike Lane.Congressman Poe presented the family of Sgt. Mike Lane with a flag that was flown over the United States Capitol in honor of National Peace Officers Memorial Day. Sgt. Lane was killed in the line of duty on September 15, 2004 during a search and rescue mission for a reported boat fire on the Sabine Lake. His family was in Washington, D.C. for a ceremony to place his name on a wall of honor at the National Police Memorial.Sgt. Lane was an outstanding member of the Beaumont community and the Beaumont Police Department, Rep. Poe said. It was an honor and a privilege to commemorate him and to show gratitude to his family and the law enforcement community.The ceremony was extremely moving, Poe said. I was proud to salute the heroes in the law enforcement community that have given their lives to keep us safe.In 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed a proclamation to designate May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day and the week in which that date falls as "Police Week". Every year since, tens of thousands of law enforcement officers from around the world converge on Washington, D.C. to participate in a number of planned events, which honor those members of the law enforcement community that have given their lives in the line of duty.Tomorrow (Wednesday, May 18th), Congressman Poe will deliver a tribute to Sgt. Mike Lane on the floor of the House of Representatives.###
05.12.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has selected the City of Port Arthur for brownfields assessment grants in the amounts of $200,000 for hazardous substances.Hazardous substances grant funds will be used to update the inventory of brownfields, perform community outreach activities, conduct 15-20 Phase I and five to ten Phase II site assessments, and plan remedial actions and reuse. The City will focus on the West Side of Port Arthur, which has been disproportionately impacted by the presence of brownfields.I commend the EPA and the City of Port Arthur for their continued commitment to providing Texans with the essential resources they need to improve their community, Rep. Poe said. These efforts will lead to more jobs and business opportunities and a better quality of life for the residents of Port Arthur.A brownfield is a property that may face expansion, redevelopment, or reuse challenges from hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants. EPAs Brownfields initiative is designed to assist stakeholders prevent, assess, safely clean, and sustainably reuse these properties. Reinvesting in brownfields augments local tax bases, bolsters job growth, capitalizes on existing infrastructure, relieves underdeveloped land of development pressures, and improves and protects the environment.###
05.12.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe joined eighteen Texas lawmakers to urge the Defense Department to save Ellington Field and leave all of Texas military bases off the list of closures that will come out on Friday. The bi-partisan Texas delegation met with Anthony Principi, Chairman of the Defense Department's Base Realignment and Closure Commission to make the case for preserving the state's bases.Any potential closure of Ellington Field would constitute a disservice to our nations ability to secure our homeland, Rep. Poe said. I hope that the Defense Department will see the need for realignment and reassign more units to Ellington Field.Congressman Poe also hand-delivered a letter to Chairman Principi stressing the importance of keeping Ellington open. He noted that the Ports in Jefferson County are an entry point for most of the liquefied natural gas and petrochemicals that fuel the nation.Twenty percent of oil refined for use in the U.S. comes from the immediate area of Texas 2nd Congressional District, Rep. Poe said. Moreover, the Port of Beaumont is a major transfer point for equipment and cargo from Fort Hood and the surrounding bases in neighboring states. It is an area that needs the immediate protection that Ellington Field offers.In the meeting with Principi, the delegation stressed homeland security concerns surrounding the petrochemical complexes on the Gulf Coast and the fact that many Texas bases have been shut down in recent rounds of closings.The Defense Department will give its list of possible closures and changes to Principi and the Commission on Friday. The Commission will spend the next four to five months holding hearings, visiting bases, and meeting with state officials.###
05.05.2005	After participating in early Cinco de Mayo festivities last Sunday in Beaumont, U.S. Congressman Ted Poe today extends his best wishes to members of the Hispanic community in Southeast Texas as they celebrate this special holiday, which commemorates the 1862 Mexican victory at the Battle of Puebla.On this day of celebration, let us recognize the unique heritage of our neighbors to the South and the contributions Americans of Mexican descent have made to the State of Texas. As the overall Hispanic population continues to grow in my Southeast Texas Congressional District and across the United States, I look forward to joining this dynamic community in many more celebrations of its diverse culture, Rep. Poe said.With his longstanding passion for Texas history, Congressman Poe excitedly honors monumental dates in the Lone Stars vibrant past through remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives. Since entering Congress four months ago, Congressman Poe has eagerly educated his colleagues from other states about Texas Independence Day and the Battle of San Jacinto. As a wise man once said, there are two kinds of people those from Texas and those who wish they were from Texas!Similarly, on the House floor today, Congressman Poe will deliver the following remarks to commemorate Cinco de Mayo:Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of Cinco de Mayo. I rise to recognize and remember the importance of this day and to salute the millions of Mexicans and Americans of Mexican descent that will celebrate throughout the Americas on this day. On May 5, 1862, an undersized, inadequately armed band of Mexicans, determined to defend their land, fought a lopsided contest against their oppressors.Many people assume that Cinco de Mayo is Mexicos Independence Day but they are incorrect. Mexicos actual independence day is September 16th, 1821. Forty years after the Mexicans achieved their independence from Spain, their country was conquered again this time by the French. In that year, Napoleon III sent a massive, martial military force to Mexico to unseat President Benito Juarez. Their plan was to overthrow Juarez and take over the country. They were confident in their powers. They even brought along a Hapsburg prince, Maximilian, to rule the new Mexican empire. They were also sorely mistaken.Napoleons army had not been defeated in 50 years and it did not expect to lose this battle. The distinguished well-trained Army marched in with the finest equipment and the arrogance to go along with it. The French were not afraid of anything but they should have been. Little did they know that the Mexicans would give them a fight to remember.On May 5, 1862, the French Army left the Port of Vera Cruz to attack Mexico City. They assumed that if they could take down the capitol, the Mexicans would give up. Under the command of Texas-born General Ignacio Seguin Zaragosa, the Mexicans awaited, determined, diligent, and dedicated to defending their land.On May 5, 1862, cannons roared and rifle shots rang out. Before the day was over, one fort was in ruins and more than a thousand French soldiers were dead. Against all odds, the hastily assembled Mexicans had routed the French imperialism in the city of Puebla, despite being outnumbered 2-1.Cinco de Mayo is a day of celebration in Mexico as well as the United States. In my home state of Texas, where there are over 6 million Americans of Mexican descent, there are numerous celebrations taking place all over the state and in border towns on this day. Cinco de Mayo is a wonderful opportunity to salute the contributions being made by all Hispanics in the Lone Star State and all of America. In my district, the second District of Texas, we have over 80,000 Hispanic members of the community. I feel fortunate to represent and live in a community that benefits from the dynamic presence of this lively culture.So Mr. Speaker, I rise to join all Americans and all Mexicans in recognition of this important day in history. The Mexicans who fought and died on a battlefield near Puebla, 143 years ago, embodied the ideal of all humans, despite their race or status. Their determination embodied a spirit of freedom and patriotism. Cinco de Mayo is a chance for EVERYONE to remember how essential our freedom is, how difficult it is to attain, and how vigilant we must remain to defend it.###
04.29.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe spoke passionately on the floor of the House of Representatives on Thursday night in honor of Small Business Week. The thirty minute Special Order was devoted to the plight of the Texas rice farmer and the considerable impact of limited subsidies and restricted markets.Since entering Congress this session, Representative Poe has called for the expansion of U.S. rice trade to countries such as Iraq and Cuba, which would provide increased opportunities for Texas rice farmers. During his trip to Iraq in January, Congressman Poe met with James Smith, Counselor of Agricultural Affairs in the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad and has also issued a Dear Colleague in Congress to rally the support of fellow members to sign a letter to USDA Secretary Mike Johanns requesting that the Export Credit Guarantee Program for Iraq be reinstated. The letter currently has 10 co-signers and has been forwarded to the USA Rice Federation and the U.S. Rice Producers. Due to the debts that Iraq incurred under the regime of Saddam Hussein, the USDA is hesitant toward offering credit protections to financial institutions that extend money to the Iraqi Grain Board.During the 1980s, Iraq was the primary market for U.S. rice. Comprising 80% of Iraqs rice imports, U.S. rice sales peaked at 500,000 metric tons. On account of Saddam Hussein and sanctions on Iraq, however, the USA Rice Federation and the U.S. Rice Producers Association estimate that the U.S. lost approximately $1.9 billion in rice export sales to Iraq from 1991 to 2003. Having entered the market under the U.N. Oil for Food program, Thailand, Vietnam, and China presently constitute the chief exporters to Iraq, which annually requires 1.3 million metric tons of rice.Until Congress passage of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000, the Cuban market had also been closed to American agriculture products because of the lingering U.S. sanctions imposed in 1963. With the reopening mandated by this Act, rice sales to Cuba have grown to $64 million per year. On February 22nd though, the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) announced it was redefining the definition of payment of cash in advance a ruling which could jeopardize future trade. As Cubans begin looking to Vietnam, Thailand, and other sources for rice, Congressman Poe has already co-signed a measure H.R. 1339 urging Congress to clarify its original intent on cash payment in advance to promote the growth of this trade relationship.Capturing the various hurdles faced by the farming industry through both facts and figures as well as personalized grower accounts, Congressman Poes address included the following excerpts:Madam Speaker, on Friday night, April 15, I had a meeting with local rice farmers in my southeast Texas district. We met out in the country in the lowland plains of east Texas on Aggie Drive in Beaumont, Texas... Many of these men had finished a 16-hour day and came to the meeting after working all that time in the fields. They drove up in their standard work vehicles: Texas pickup trucks. Their appearances would fool you, however. They are highly intelligent, some very well educated. They know more about farming, farming machinery, nature, conservation, irrigation, water resources, meteorology, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizer, trade, global competition, foreign governments, and efficiency than many who have a string of degrees behind their names, especially those near this House.As we sat around and ate fried catfish made out of rice flour, I talked to them for several hours about their plight. One rice farmer said this was his last year in farming. He was finally just going to sell off his equipment and sell the land. They painted for me, Madam Speaker, the extremely bleak picture of the present and future in rice farming. And while one could argue that economic decline plagues all rural America across the board on account of the death tax and high tax levels, too many government regulations, the rice farming industry has been hit particularly hardThe State of Texas in 1972 had more than 600,000 acres of rice farming. That is about the size of Rhode Island. Last year, it was less than 200,000 acres, a two-thirds loss of the land to something else. Unfortunately, rice farmers, those in southeast Texas, for example, cannot change to alternative crops because other crops do not thrive in this environment, the marshy, unique wetlands and humid climate of Southeast Texas.In addition, the farmers have to contend with the whims of the Lone Star weather, ranging from sun to hail, too much rain to not enough rain, or none at all. Natural disasters like hurricanes, they come and go and ravage the land where we live. According to the United States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service, in 2002, the average American rice farmer made about $1,700 from farming, or about 82 cents an hour for a 40-hour work week. I will repeat that. That is 82 cents an hour for a 40-hour work week, and that was with government support. This harsh reality forces most farmers to rely on nonfarming income to support their households.Rice farmers work their own land, Madam Speaker. They do not hire day laborers or seasonal workers. They cannot afford it. The farmer and his kids, they work the land. Rice farmers can barely support themselves financially, let alone make needed contributions to the industry to keep it afloatMoreover, industry representatives are dwindling. Farm machines, the John Deere stores, they are disappearing. Each year, older farmers quit or retire. Each year, less acreage is being used for crops. Each year, fewer young men go into farming because the cost versus the return on this investment is not sufficient for any type of lifestyle. What is the incentive for the young to enter the farming industry?This meeting we had on April 15, most of the farmers there were at least 50 or older. Farming, rice farming is a very labor- and energy-intensive business. It requires electricity to run the pumps to irrigate the crops, diesel fuel to run the combines, and fuel for the crop dusters, pesticides to control insect problems. And we have a lot of insects in southeast Texas.In addition to the labor from early morning to dark, from February to November, it is about 8:30 now, Madam Speaker, in southeast Texas, most of the rice farmers are coming in from working all day.All the costs have increased, yet the price that the farmer receives for selling his crop remains the same or has dropped. It also takes an enormous amount of time to fill out Federal forms, which has tripled, according to the farmers.These farmers are required just to sell the rice they grow. Due to government regulations, sanctions have prohibited farmers from making sales of their crops in an open market. They are even told by this government, our government, how much they can plantOnce the experienced rice farmers leave the industry, we cannot restore this lost knowledge. No government program can do that. Not to mention that the present farm program constitutes only four-tenths of 1 percent of the national budgetMadam Speaker, these figures and personal accounts [not included in this release] all point to the two main obstacles faced by rice farmers. The fact that the land that the farmers work in many times is not land that they own, but they are tenants on the land. Yet the owners of the land are the ones who receive the subsidies. Also, the United States Government has shut off several of the key markets to which our rice farmers used to sell.The rice farmers that I have talked to, Madam Speaker, they do not want to be dependent on the government. Most believe they are forced to sell their land and become tenants to land owners because of the government. The land owners receive the subsidies. Maybe the farmers who work the land should receive the subsidies.But with all this talk about free trade, the real issue is, Madam Speaker, is we prohibit free rice trade. It is unjust to further cut subsidies unless we expand the scope of the rice trade. During the 80s, Iraq was the number one rice market for American rice producers, producing 80 percent of Iraq's rice imports.American rice sales to this country alone peaked at 500,000 metric tons. But from 1991 to 2003, because of Saddam Hussein and the Iraq sanctions, the U.S.A. Federation and the U.S. Rice Producers Association estimate that the United States lost $1.9 billion in rice export sales to Iraq.As a result of loss of these sales to Iraq, other countries have stepped in to sell rice to Iraq. Two of them are Thailand and Vietnam. We have perfectly good rice in the United States, perfectly good rice in Texas and the five other States that grow rice. Not every State grows rice in the United States, Madam Speaker. The States that grow rice are Texas, California, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, and Mississippi.Here we are rebuilding Iraq with American money, and yet rice is bought from Vietnam to restore Iraq. I ask the question, why. Charity begins at home if we wish to have charity, and maybe we should think about some of the other foreign giveaway programs that this country is involved in before we cut subsidies to our rice farmers, remembering, of course, that they really do not want the subsidies as much as they want market for their rice.In January I had the opportunity to go to Iraq. I met with James Smith. He was a counselor for the Office of Agricultural Affairs at the United States Embassy in Baghdad. That is a long title, but he is the person that is responsible for helping American farmers get rice to Iraq.He is a good individual. He understands rice economics 101. I congratulate him on his efforts to make sure that we get rice, especially Texas rice and rice from the southeast United States to Iraq.Upon returning to the United States, I was later invited by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Bonilla), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations to join him and other congressional leaders to discuss with the Iraqi Grain Board the further expansion of United States rice trade to Iraq.We learned in that meeting that the Iraqis, through the Iraqi grain board, had purchased 60,000 metric tons of U.S. rice and another 360,000 metric tons will be purchased soon. The Iraqis wish to buy all the rice that they can. It is estimated that Iraq will need 1.3 million metric tons of rice every year. We want that rice to come from the United States, and we need to make sure that it is American rice that is on the Iraqi supper table and not rice from Vietnam.And while, Madam Speaker, this is a great historic first step, we cannot stop there. We need to reopen trade, not only with Iraq but also with Cuba on the issue of agriculture products, specifically rice. These two countries along with Iran were countries that we used to send our rice to before trade embargoes and sanctions were set.So these are some issues that are before the House and before our country. It is called food and food supply. I am working along with many others to facilitate rice trade with Cuba. I believe that our sanctions against Castro's regime, which have been in place since 1963, should not prevent our Nation from selling our farm products to the people there.Madam Speaker, the Cuban people will eat rice just like the Iraqi people will; and if we do not sell it to them, they will get it somewhere else. Why are we economically hindering ourselves, our farmers, and our industries?The Cuban market remained closed until this body passed the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000. With the reopening mandated by this law, rice sales to Cuba have grown to $64 million a year. But now we hear that some want to slash back this trade for political reasons.On February 22 through the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, it announced it was redefining what Congress had put into law, that being the definition of payment of cash in advance. To most folks, payment of cash in advance is not a complicated issue. It means what it means. This bureaucracy is getting in the way of congressional intent. So Cubans are beginning to look to other nations, not surprisingly, Vietnam and Thailand and other sources for their rice. So I encourage other Members of this House to co-sign on to H.R. 1339 to further explain in simple terms to government bureaucrats that farmers should be allowed to trade with Cuba on a cash for crop basis.I continue to hear from rice farmers in my district that if U.S. political leaders would open world markets to American farmers, price supports would not be necessary. The modest price support provided by the U.S. Government and the greater efficiency of the U.S. agriculture production simply are not enough to provide a level international playing field and prevent erosion of U.S. agricultural infrastructure. We just want markets, Madam Speaker.America's food supply is the safest, it is the best quality, it is the most abundant and the cheapest in the world. As the agricultural society of the United States declines, we will become more and more dependent on other countries for our food. This could lead to a national security problem.It is one thing for this country to become more and more dependent on other countries for energy, but we should never get in the position, Madam Speaker, that this country becomes dependent on any country for our food. We cannot let that happen. It is a national security issue.Maybe we should also consider using Texas rice as an alternative fuel like Nebraska is doing with corn and Hawaii is doing with sugar. In devising a long overdue energy plan, we should capitalize on rice's potential. We should be open-minded, be innovative, and not depend on foreign nations for not only our food but our energy as well. And this has great possibilities, Madam Speaker.This week is Small Business Week. Farms, the American farmer, the American farm family are the best examples of small business in the United States. So tonight and tomorrow morning when we push ourselves away from our tables, we need to thank the American farmer. We need to thank the folks like Ray Stoesser and Jack Wendt. We need to thank their families for what they have done to America and for America. They are our natural resources, for there is nothing quite like the American farmer.Madam Speaker, that is just the way it is.###
04.29.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will participate in a news conference on Monday, May 2nd at 9:30am at the Childrens Assessment Center (CAC) in Houston to announce a grant award in the amount of $300,000 to the Center for the Serving Children with Enhanced Technology project. WHO: U.S. Congressman Ted Poe; Harris County Judge Robert Eckels; Spindletop President Duane Radtke (President, Dominion Exploration & Production); Rod Clark, President, Baker Hughes; Jack Moore, President, Cameron; Galen Cobb, Vice President, Halliburton; Wayne Richards, Vice President, Schlumberger; Paul Bragg, President & CEO, Pride International; and Morris Foster, President, ExxonMobil Productions Co. WHERE: Childrens Assessment Center 2500 Bolsover Houston, Texas 77005 WHEN: Monday, May 2nd 9:30amThe state-of-the-art project, Serving Children with Enhanced Technology, will serve as a model for other initiatives nationwide and will improve services for Harris Countys sexually abused children and their families. Through this program, the CAC will convert their Forensic Interviewing Divisions recordings of disclosures by sexually abused children from an analog tape-based process to a digital-based system with I-Rooms. Like the current equipment the Center employs, Serving Children with Enhanced Technology will ensure a child will never have to relive the trauma of repeatedly recounting their tragedies. The benefit derived from the digitally recorded interviews, however, will come in the form of improved image and sound quality and it will streamline access by the various partner agencies in the investigation and treatment of cases. The implementation of DVD and web-based technology also requires less storage space than the current library of VHS-taped interviews.###
04.29.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe on Thursday announced an art contest for high school students living in the 2nd Congressional District of Texas. The local contest is part of An Artistic Discovery, an annual competition for high school students sponsored by the United States House of Representatives to encourage the artistic talents of young Americans.This is a great opportunity to showcase the creative abilities of young talented Texans in the second district, Poe said.The contest winner will have their art displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. Two runners-up will also be awarded and their artwork will be displayed in Congressman Poes district offices for one year.Artwork must be an original concept (not reproduced from any existing photo, painting, or other work produced by another individual), two-dimensional and no larger than 32 x 32 x 4 framed. Eligible categories include paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer-generated art and photography. Entries must be submitted to Congressman Poes Jefferson County or Harris County offices no later than 4:30 p.m. on Friday May 20, 2005. For more information on the contest, please log on to our website http://www.house.gov/poe to download all contest rules.Jefferson County Office2615 CalderSuite 100Beaumont, TX 77702409.212.1997 Harris County Office20202 U.S. Highway 59 N.Suite 105Humble, TX 77338281.446.0242###
04.28.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe was one of 20 House members who voted against a resolution to return to the old House Ethics Rules. The vote took place on Wednesday night and passed overwhelmingly, 406-20. Poe released the following statement in response to the vote."As a former prosecutor and judge in Houston for over 22 years and now as the United States Representative for Texas 2nd Congressional District, I have assumed multiple oaths to uphold our nations Constitution. This hallowed manuscript prescribes a presumption of innocence a right along with due process that is bestowed upon each and every citizen.Individuals who serve in elected office often experience more scrutiny than private citizens. When allegations are made against them, however, public officials should still receive the same presumption of innocence until proven guilty.Accordingly, in January, three changes were made to the Congressional Ethics rules. First, Members of Congress would have the right to their own lawyer instead of one appointed by the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. Second, Representatives would be afforded the opportunity to learn the identity of their accuser rather than his or her name remaining anonymous. Finally, the new rules stipulated that after 45 days, if there were no finding, the charges would be dismissed for lack of prosecution. Previously, ethics probes were permitted to linger indefinitely thereby denying Congressmen and women the equivalent of a speedy trial.Three months ago, I supported these modifications to the Ethics procedure because they are constitutional concepts, which would have been applied to Members of Congress regardless of party affiliation. Last night, I remained consistent in voting to ensure that even Members of Congress receive their basic constitutional rights.###
04.28.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announces two grants that the Institute of Museum and Library Services has awarded to recipients in Jefferson County. Lamar University will receive a Museum Assessment Program grant in the amount of $2,325 to provide technical assistance, which will allow the museum to better assess its strengths and weaknesses as well as plan for the future. Spindletop-Gladys City Boomtown Museum will receive a Conservation Assessment Program grant in the amount of $4,610 to fund a two-day visit by a conservation professional who will provide an overall assessment of the museums conservation efforts.Estimating that 75% of the United States museum community is comprised of small institutions, the Museum Assessment Program administered by the American Association of Museums focuses on bolstering small museums. Through the help of museum professionals who tour various museums and meet with staff and governing officials, this program assists institutions arrive at sound management decisions. The Conservation Assessment Program managed by Heritage Preservation highlights the importance of conservation as a museum practice to ensure that future generations are able to enjoy the ideas and knowledge that museum collections hold.###
04.18.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will hold a bi-partisan press conference on April 20, 2005 at 11 a.m. at the Cannon Terrace with U.S. Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA); Mr. Tom Charron, Executive Director of the National District Attorneys Association; fourteen major national victims groups; Mr. Mark Lunsford (father of Jessica Lunsford); Citrus County, Florida Sheriff Jeffrey Dawsy; and other members of the law enforcement community to request that Congressional appropriators reject the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)s proposal to rescind VOCA funds.Who:ï U.S. Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02)ï U.S. Congressman Jim Costa (CA-20)ï Mr. Tom Charron, Executive Director of the National District Attorneys Associationï Mr. Mark Lunsfordï Citrus County, Florida Sheriff Jeffrey Dawsyï Other members of the law enforcement community ï Justice Solutions, Inc.ï Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD)ï National Childrens Allianceï National Alliance to End Sexual Violence (NAESV)ï National Association of Victim Assistance Administrators (NAVAA)ï National Association of Crime Victim Compensation Boards (NACVCB)ï National Chapter of Parents of Murdered Children (NCPOMC)ï National Crime Victim Center (NCVC)ï Pennsylvania Coalition Against Rape (PCAR)ï National Crime Victim Research and Treatment Centerï Victim Assistance Legal Organization (VALOR)ï National Organization for Victim Assistance (NOVA)ï National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV)ï National Network to End Domestic Violence (NNEDV)Where: Cannon House Office Building Cannon Terrace (3rd floor) Washington, D.C. 20515 (In the event of rain, event will be held in Cannon Room 311)When: April 20, 2005 at 11AMUnder the proposed Budget, the over $1.2 billion currently housed in the Crime Victims Fund is in grave danger of rescission. The Victims of Crime Act was enacted by the initiative of President Ronald Reagan to pay for victims services and compensations. It operates on money collected from criminal offenders not taxpayers that is then placed in the Crime Victims Fund. There are approximately 4,400 agencies that depend upon VOCAs victim assistance funds to provide direct services to 3.6 million crime victims annually. An additional 165,000 victims received some $434 million (state and VOCA funds) in crime victim compensation benefits. Currently, VOCA is the only federal program that supports services to victims of all types of crime: homicide fatalities, drunk driving, elder financial exploitation, identity theft, robbery, and rape.The VOCA Fund is a crucial resource, on which many communities and organizations rely. It assists rape crisis centers; domestic violence shelters; and victims cover court costs, funeral services, and medical expenses. When questioned about its rationale for rescinding VOCA, the Office of Management and Budget classified the money in the Fund as a surplus a budget gimmick and indicated it would be diverted to improve accountability in the budget process.Spearheading the effort to protect VOCA funding, Congressman Poe co-chairs the Congressional Victims Right Caucus that he founded last month. He has over 22 years experience dealing with criminal cases as a felony court judge and a prosecutor. He is a leading authority on crime, justice, and childrens issues. Most recently, Congressman Poe introduced and sponsored legislation the Child Predator Act of 2005 to safeguard children against child predators.###
04.11.2005	During the month of April Child Abuse Prevention Month and in commemoration of National Crime Victims Rights Week (April 10-16), U.S. Congressman Ted Poe continues to work passionately on behalf of victims on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and beyond. Since taking office in January, he has assumed a critical leadership role on issues affecting crime victims and those who serve them nationwide.Within one month of being sworn-in as the U.S. Representative for Texas 2nd Congressional District, Congressman Poe founded and assumed co-chairmanship of the first-ever Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, which aims to cultivate a forum for legislators to discuss the rights and concerns of victims. Through this Caucus and various initiatives, he has already spearheaded a movement to protect the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) - Crime Victims Fund that was established to pay for victim services and victim compensation.Under the proposed Budget, the over $1.2 billion currently housed in the Crime Victims Fund is in grave danger of rescission. Established in 1984 by President Ronald Reagan, the Fund is comprised solely of fines and fees derived from convicted federal offenders not from taxpayers dollars a tenet Congressman Poe believes is vital for offender accountability. All fourteen national victim assistance programs have united to oppose this rescission and are working closely with Congressman Poe and the Caucus.Congressman Poe has repeatedly explained his concern about this serious issue, which was also highlighted in a Wall Street Journal article on Thursday, March 31, 2005.For over 22 years as a felony court judge, I witnessed first-hand the plight of crime victims and their healing process, which often began with participating in the judicial proceedings and continued as they received counseling and other services to aid in their recovery, Rep. Poe said.In creating the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus and seeking support from my fellow Members of Congress to oppose the liquidation of the Crime Victims Fund, I hope to bring desperately needed relief to victims a contingent that is often grossly under-represented. I would like to help ensure that the over 4,400 programs that receive these funds are not forced to close their doors or scale back the essential services for victims of crime that they deliver, he concluded.National victim advocate and Senior Advisor to the Washington, D.C.-based non-profit Justice Solutions, Anne Seymour, salutes Congressman Poe for his efforts.I first met Judge Ted Poe in 1986 as a victim advocate on a horrible case involving a serial rapist. He has been, without a doubt, one of Americas leading criminal justice officials who sought balance in our criminal justice system, and always paid attention to the needs and concerns of crime victims, Seymour said.His leadership in establishing the first-ever Victim's Rights Caucus in the United States Congress and opposing the rescission of the Crime Victims Fund are just two of many actions he has taken over the past two decades to recognize crime victims rights and needs, she concluded.Moreover, U.S. Representative Ted Poe last month sponsored and introduced legislation H.R. 1355, the Child Predator Act of 2005 to safeguard children from child predators by arming parents and law enforcement with additional tools. The Child Predator Act aims to close the loopholes in current law that allow sexual offenders to slip through the cracks when they relocate from state to state by requiring registration within 10 days of a move as well as community notification, tightening the consequences for non-compliance, and mandating a free internet accessible database that clearly designates child predators (as defined by the bill) those individuals who commit a sexual offense against a minor age 13 or younger.###
03.23.2005	
03.23.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will host his first community meetings since being sworn in as a Member of Congress. Poe will discuss a summary of the 109th Congress, legislation he has introduced to protect children, his founding of the Congressional Victims Rights Caucus, and other issues of interest to the District. Congressman Poe and caseworkers from his staff will be available to answer questions and open any casework files necessary. WHO: U.S. Rep. Judge Ted Poe (TX-02), district office caseworkers, and members of the District 2 community. (Public is welcome) WHEN: Saturday, April 2, 2005 1960 Area Ponderosa Volunteer Fire Dept. 17061 Rolling Creek Drive Houston, TX 77090 8:00-9:00 am Humble Area Humble Civic Center 8233 Will Clayton Pkwy Humble, TX 77338 10:00-11:00 am Dayton-Liberty Area 75th District Court The Honorable C.T. Rusty Hight Liberty County Courthouse-Rm. 304 1923 Sam Houston Liberty, TX 77575 12:30-1:30 pm Port Arthur Area Port Arthur Chamber of Commerce Tower Building Community Room 4749 Twin City Hwy., Suite 300 Port Arthur, TX 77642 3:30-4:30 pm Beaumont Area Lamar Institute of Technology Multi-purpose Center 802 East Lavaca Beaumont, TX 77705 5:30-6:30 pm ###
03.10.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today that he obtained over $10 million in earmarks as part of H.R. 3, The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users the six-year bill that provides $284 billion for the federal highway, transit and highway safety programs. This money will be used for projects to extend and widen roads and create streetscape improvements in Jefferson County.Upgrading roads and making improvements to the streets of Beaumont are essential to the economic growth of the city and instrumental in improving quality of life for the residents, Congressman Poe said.The funding was approved for use for the following projects:Dowlen Road ExtensionThe city will receive assistance to extend Dowlen Road in Beaumont from U.S. 90 (College Street) to Walden Road to be comprised of a four-lane divided road with left turn lanes at intersections. Upon completion, this will provide an additional corridor between the north and south sides of the city and is expected to reduce congestion. It will also provide increased access to over 630 acres of commercial, industrial and residential properties.Washington Boulevard WideningFunding will widen Washington Boulevard in Beaumont from Langhan Road to FM 364 (Major Drive) to a four lane street with a continuous left turn lane. The project will provide an east/west corridor through the southeast and southwest areas of Beaumont from Spur 380 to FM 364 (Major Drive). The widening will result in a four-lane facility that will improve access to industrial and commercial areas on the east and west side of the city.Willow Street ImprovementsImprovements include the installation of brick-paved sidewalks, decorative lighting, new traffic signal poles, street and informational signing and the rehabilitation of the streets, curbs and gutters.Orange County Access RoadAssistance will go toward development and construction of an access road connecting the I-10 access road to the Port of Beaumont owned property along the east bank of the Neches River in Orange County.Congressman Poe worked with members of the Texas delegation to ensure that Beaumont received money for high priority projects including new roads, better bridges, and streetscape improvements. The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the bill by a vote of 417-9.###
03.10.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe announced today a $28.5 million earmark he obtained for beautification, erosion prevention, and flood control programs for the Houston area. A component of H.R. 3, The Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, this six-year bill provides $284 billion for the federal highway, transit and highway safety programs. The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed the measure by a vote of 417-9.This funding will be used to beautify Houstons highways with new landscaping, while also helping environmentally by combating erosion, creating flood control, and improving air quality for our area, Congressman Poe said. The large scale landscaping will have a positive impact on economic development by attracting businesses to the area, increasing property values and bringing tourists, visitors, and new consumer attitudes to the region.The benefits of the large scale landscaping will target three opportunity areas: air quality benefits, storm water management benefits, and improvements to the regions quality of life. Environmentally, trees help mange flood-control problems by catching the water and reducing the rate at which the water hits the ground. Trees also improve air quality by absorbing polluting gases and attaching particulate matter to their leaves.Poe also partnered with Representative Gene Greens office on a project for U.S. Highway 90. The project will extend US-90 to Beltway 8. Two million dollars was allocated to construct six main lanes from east of Mercury to east of Wallisville.While a portion of the road is in Green's district, it helps out my constituents in the 2nd District coming from the east in Jefferson and Liberty to have an easier connection to the beltway and Houston, Congressman Poe said.Congressman Poe worked with the Greater Houston Partnership as well as members of the Texas delegation on this project to ensure that the State received the money for high priority projects including new roads, better bridges, and highway landscaping.###
03.10.2005	U.S. Congressman Ted Poe will join Congressman Kevin Brady, local elected officials, and representatives from the Port of Beaumont including Executive Port Director, Mr. Chris Fisher, tomorrow, March 11th at 11 a.m. at the Port of Beaumont to announce the $3.12 million dollars of funding secured in the Highway Transportation bill passed by the U.S. House of Representatives today by an overwhelming vote of 417-9.Designated in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), the money will go toward development and construction of an access road connecting the I-10 access road to the Port of Beaumont owned property along the east bank of the Neches River in Orange County.The Port of Beaumont is beginning the development of 455 acres of property it owns on the east bank of the Neches River, immediately across the river from the ports present location. Development of this property will provide significant economic development and new jobs to the area.In the last few years, the port has used local funds and a grant from the Economic Development Administration to build a roadway and railroad bed to the waterfront and to install 650 feet of sheet steel piling in support of future wharf development. Also, potable water and basic utilities have been extended to the site.The port access road will link the Ports future deepwater development in Orange County to Interstate 10.WHO: U.S. Congressmen Ted Poe (TX-02) and Kevin Brady (TX-08), Local Elected Officials, and Port of Beaumont RepresentativesWHERE: Port of Beaumont Main Gate1225 Main StreetBeaumont, Texas 77704WHEN:Friday, March 11, 200511:00 am###
03.09.2005	The National Anthem Project, a multi-year effort to re-teach Americans The Star-Spangled Banner, will launch Thursday, March 10th in Washington, D.C. at the White House with the support of U.S. Congressman Judge Ted Poe (TX-02). The national education campaign is led by the National Association for Music Education (MENC). First Lady Laura Bush serves as the Honorary Chairperson and is supported by the JeepÆ brand, the projects National Presenting Sponsor.As a dedicated supporter of education and civic involvement, I am honored to work with the First Lady and MENC to promote music education and help restore Americas voice, Congressman Poe said. I commend this project and encourage the schools in Texas 2nd Congressional District and across the State to take part in programs that teach about our countrys historical traditions.The campaign launch comes on the heels of a recent Harris Interactive poll that shows two out of three Americans dont know all the words to The Star-Spangled Banner and many are unaware of the historical events that inspired the penning of the song. This startling statistic prompted MENC, the worlds largest arts education association, to spearhead the project and shine the spotlight on the importance of school music programs as this is where most Americans learn the national anthem and other patriotic songs.Following the kick-off tomorrow, Congressman Poes comments on the project will be available in a Video News Release at the following times and coordinates:Thursday, March 10, 2005/ 2:30 PM EST-3:00 PM ESTIntelsat A 6 (C), Transponder 15; Audio at 6.2 & 6.8Downlink Frequency: 4000 (V)Friday, March 11, 2005/ 10:15 AM EST-10:30 AM ESTIntelsat A 6 (C), Transponder 16, Audio at 6.2 & 6.8Download Frequency: 4020 (H)###
03.03.2005	Continental Airlines announced Wednesday that it would provide Jamie Daugherty with a free round trip ticket to Hawaii to attend a memorial service being held in honor of Marine servicemen killed in the January 2005 helicopter crash in Iraq. Daugherty was engaged to Marine LCpl Fred Lee Maciel who died in that crash.Daugherty contacted U.S. Rep Judge Ted Poes Humble office for assistance on Monday when she was told the Pentagon was only transporting next of kin namely parents, wives, and children. As Maciels fiance, however, she was not included. Poes office immediately verified the information with the Marines and in turn contacted Continental Airlines. Continental responded by offering a free round trip ticket for Daugherty and a discounted ticket for her mother, Patricia Hommel.Continental has always been an important part of our community, and once again, it has proven its loyalty to the members of our area, especially the families of the military serving our country overseas, Rep. Poe said. I appreciate Continentals generosity and willingness to work with our office to assist Jamie and her mother as they cope with their tremendous loss.Daugherty and her mother will leave Sunday and attend the memorial service on Monday, March 7 in Honolulu, Hawaii. Daughertys fianc, Lance Corporal Maciel a native of Spring, Texas was killed in the deadliest event for American forces in Iraq since the start of the operations in March of 2003. He and 30 other servicemen were killed in combat when the helicopter, in which they were traveling, crashed in Al Anbar Province in Iraq.###
03.01.2005	U.S. Representative Judge Ted Poe will join district office staff, members of the 2nd Congressional District community, and local dignitaries to officially open his new office in Jefferson County. The office will serve the constituents in the eastern portion of Congressional District 2.WHO: U.S. Rep. Judge Ted Poe (TX-02), district office staff, and members of the District 2 community.WHERE:2615 Calder, Suite 100 Beaumont, TX 77702WHEN:Friday, March 4, 2005 4:00-5:30pm###
02.18.2005	U.S. Representative Judge Ted Poe announced today some of the key events in which he will participate during the U.S. House of Representatives work period February 20 28.Sunday, February 20Dimensions in Blue Jazz Ensemble with a performance by the U.S. Air Force BandSponsored by the Dayton Chamber of CommerceNottingham Middle School Auditorium, 3:00 p.m.U.S. Representative Poe will address the audienceOther invited speakers: U.S. Rep. Kevin BradyThe concert is open to the general public and is brought to the City of Dayton exclusively by the Dayton Chamber of Commerce.Monday, February 21CSPAN Educational Bus TourSponsored by the Kingwood Chamber of CommerceThe Heritage Center in Kingwood, 7:30 a.m.Rep. Poe will address the crowd at 7:45 a.m.C-SPAN will bring its education tour bus to The Heritage Center in Kingwood, Texas!C-SPAN staff will give tours of the C-SPAN School BusRep. Poe will address the crowd and speak about his newly formed Education Task Force serving the constituents of the 2nd Congressional District. The bus will make a stop at Kingwood High School about 8:45 a.m. Students will be allowed to tour the bus.Meeting of the 2nd Congressional Districts Education Task ForceLiberty ISD Administration Building, 6:00 p.m.1600 Grand Avenue in LibertyAttendees from Harris, Liberty and Jefferson Counties will meet with Judge Poe to discuss challenges they face in education and how the federal government can help. Attendees include parents, teachers and administrators and community leaders from around the 2nd Congressional District. The group is comprised of elementary, junior high, high school, community college, university, and home school programs throughout the district.Tuesday, February 22Reception with community leaders and chemical plant managers in Port ArthurTotal Petrochemical Port Arthur, 2:30 p.m.Pompano Club 330 Twin City Highway, Port Neches, Texas 77651Invited guests: Plant managers from throughout Jefferson County, all mayors, commissioners, Lamar Presidents, Economic Developers for each city, County Judges, Chamber of Commerce, Regional Planning Commissioner, Navigation District and Port Presidents, and Executive Directors and City Managers.Thursday, February 24Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo BBQ cook-offReliant Arena Parking Lot, 6:00 p.m.Friday, February 25Open House and Ribbon Cutting for Ted Poes new congressional office in Humble20202 U.S. Highway 59, North, Suite 105, 7:30-8:00 a.m.Stop by for Continental Breakfast and meet Judge PoeSaturday, February 26Houston Livestock Show Parade and BreakfastAlley Theatre, 615 Texas Avenue8:30 a.m. Breakfast10:00 a.m. ParadeJudge Poe and his staff will also be meeting with: Cleveland Mayor Monique McDuffie-Davis and City Manager Philip Cook, the Cleveland City Council, the Liberty Rotary, Texas Department of Transportation, Baytown Mayor Calvin Munninger and City Council, the Baytown Chamber of Commerce, the Port of Beaumont, the Port of Port Arthur, and the Boy Scout Council of Beaumont.A former criminal court judge, Judge Ted Poe gained national attention as a judge for his innovative sentencing techniques used in punishing criminals. Poes punishments, called Poetic Justice by the media, include ordering thieves to carry signs in front of the stores from which they stole and requiring a man who assaulted his wife to publicly apologize on the steps of Houston City Hall.Elected U.S. Representative in 2004, Poe represents Texas 2nd Congressional District, which takes in parts of Harris and Liberty Counties and all of Jefferson County. It includes Kingwood, Humble, Atascocita, Spring, Cleveland, Channelview, Baytown, Highlands, Crosby, Sheldon, Liberty, Dayton, Port Arthur, Groves, Nederland and Beaumont.###
02.17.2005	U.S. Rep. Judge Ted Poe today announced the members of his staff and the locations of his offices in Washington, D.C. and in Texas 2nd Congressional District:While we will confront issues of national and international importance during the next two years, serving the individual needs of the people of the 2nd District remains my number one priority, Rep. Poe said. Whatever the issue or request, my constituents will receive a warm welcome and a helping hand whenever they call or visit one of my offices.Washington, D.C. OfficeAddress: 1605 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515Phone: (866) 425-6565Phone: (202) 226-6565Fax: (202) 225-5547Staff: Heather Ramsey, Chief of StaffAnouck McCall, Communications DirectorRebecca Baca, SchedulerAlan Knapp, Legislative DirectorTrey Hicks, Legislative AssistantTom Power, Legislative AssistantDavid Lively, Legislative Correspondent & Systems AdministratorStephanie Livingston, Legislative Correspondent & Press AssistantErin Townsend, Staff AssistantHumble District OfficeAddress: 20202 US Highway 59 North, Suite 105Humble, TX 77338(281) 446-0242Fax: (281) 446-0252Staff: Eron Linn, District DirectorAmy Blanchett, Field RepresentativePatti Chapman, CaseworkerBeaumont District Office (Opens March 4th)Address: 2615 Calder, Suite 100Beaumont, TX 77702Phone: (409) 212-1997(409) 212-8711Staff: Kristen Barrs, District CoordinatorMichael Fortney, CaseworkerHolley Rivers, CaseworkerU.S. Representative Judge Ted Poe has been appointed to the following subcommittees:Committee on Transportation and InfrastructureSubcommittee on Water Resources and EnvironmentSubcommittee on AviationCommittee on International RelationsSubcommittee on International Terrorism and NonproliferationSubcommittee on Europe and Emerging ThreatsCommittee on Small BusinessSubcommittee on Regulatory Reform and OversightSubcommittee on Tax, Finance, and Exports###
11.30.1999	The 112th Congress has just begun, and so have the attacks on the Environmental Protection Agency's ability to regulate greenhouse gases.Three Republican House members -- Marsha Blackburn (Tenn.), Shelley Moore Capito (W. Va.) and Ted Poe (Tex.) have each introduced separate bills aimed at blocking EPA from regulating carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act.The three measures hamstring the agency's authority in different ways: Blackburn's would "amend the Clean Air Act to provide that greenhouse gases are not subject to the Act, even though the Supreme Court ruled in 2007 that they are; Capito's would delay EPA from regulating carbon dioxide and methane for two years; and Poe's would prohibit any agency funding to be used to implement or enforce a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases.
12.08.2005	Congressman Ted Poe announced today that help is on the way for families displaced by Rita. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will make mortgage payments for up to one year for disaster victims with FHA-insured mortgages who want to start living in their homes again.To be eligible for this mortgage assistance, families must have homes that are repairable and located in a presidentially declared disaster area that is designated for individual assistance. HUD will not only make mortgage payments for qualifying homeowners who are in default, its current practice, but will make advance mortgage payments on behalf of borrowers for up to 12 months.This is great news for the families of Southeast Texas whose homes were devastated by Hurricane Ritas wrath. Poe said. I commend Secretary Jackson for making this decision. It will help many Southeast Texans get back to their homes and start putting the pieces of their lives back together.The relief will enable FHA borrowers in the impacted areas to retain homeownership as they concentrate on repairing their homes and finding jobs. Additionally, it will assist FHA lenders and protect communities by encouraging homeowners not to abandon damaged properties. After the mortgage assistance period, the borrower will resume making normal mortgage payments. The payment on the borrower's behalf will be secured by a second mortgage that carries no interest rate and is repaid to HUD upon payment-in-full of the first mortgage.This assistance is available to FHA homeowners who: Have a property that is damaged by the hurricanes but can be rebuilt given adequate time; have access to funds from insurance proceeds, loans or personal resources to complete the repairs; and, are currently employed or are very likely to return to work within a short period of time.FHA-insured families in disaster areas whose houses are not damaged, but have lost their source of income as a result of the hurricanes, will also be eligible for this mortgage relief. These borrowers must be able to demonstrate that their primary source of employment was located in an area designated for individual assistance, that they suffered a reduction in income that makes them unable to pay their mortgage and that they are likely to be reemployed within a reasonable period of time.These requirements will remain in effect for an eighteen-month period unless extended or rescinded by the Department. It is estimated that up to 20,000 families could benefit by this action, in which case the outlay by HUD would be approximately $200 million.For more information, please visit HUD website, www.hud.gov.FHA Homebuyers can also contact their lender or HUDs National Servicing Center at: 1-888-297-8685.
