03.13.2019	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure funding for innovative non-intrusive imaging equipment, additional canine teams, and 600 new U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers in the fiscal year 2019 appropriations package. He also included language that will encourage CBP to hire an additional 600 officers, whose salaries will be paid for with custom fees, with the potential of yielding 1,200 new officers. Deploying these and additional resources at our ports of entry (POEs) will help CBP combat the entry of illicit goods, narcotics, and human smuggling into the country. It will also increase security and ensure the smoother, faster flow of legitimate trade and travel. CBP’s dual mission of protecting our borders and facilitating legitimate trade and travel is not only a critical component of national security, but also of the nation’s economic prosperity. In FY2017, CBP processed $2.39 trillion in imports, equating to 33.2 million entries and more than 28.5 million imported cargo containers at 328 U.S. POEs. For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority to ensure that CBP has the capability and capacity to improve the efficiency of legitimate trade and travel at our nation’s POEs, while maintaining the highest standards of security. Congressman Cuellar said, “My district is home the largest inland port in the United States, conducting over 60 percent of all U.S.-Mexico trade. Increasing the number of trade enforcement personnel and improving technology will help streamline international commerce, eliminate costly bottlenecks and increase trade as well as security for cities along the border, greatly benefitting the local and national economy.” “CBP processes over one million passengers and pedestrians who make their way across the United States’ borders to visit our cities each day,” Cuellar continued. “These people spend their hard-earned money eating at our restaurants and purchasing goods in our stores, which benefits the local border communities in my district. It is my top priority to facilitate this increased tourism and trade while also protecting our borders. This starts with making certain that we have a sufficient number of CBP personnel and new technologies at our ports of entry.” Increasing CBP Officers at Ports of Entry To increase border security at the POEs, Congressman Cuellar included funding for 600 new CBP officers in the fiscal year 2019 appropriations package. He also included language that will encourage CBP to hire an additional 600 officers, whose salaries will be paid for with custom fees, with the potential of yielding 1,200 new officers. Increasing the number CBP personnel at POEs will ensure legitimate trade and travel, while working to increase the nation’s security. In the fiscal year 2019 Appropriations Conference Report, he helped secure language and funding for: $58.7 million to hire 600 new CBP officers for ports of entry and language encouraging CBP to hire an additional 600 officers whose salaries will be paid for with custom fees; $20 million for CBP officer retention; $564 million for innovative non-intrusive imaging equipment; $6 million for outbound enforcement equipment; $45 million for inspection equipment at international mail and express consignment facilities; $10 million for automated commercial environment enhancements to include post core development and collections; $18.5 for revenue modernization; $14.7 million for Office of Field Operations facilities; $191 million for infrastructure improvements at ports of entry; $15 million for port of entry technology for opioid detection; $27 million for law enforcement Canines; $2 million for canine team personnel for opioid detection; $1.6 million for support staff for opioid detection; $5.7 million for laboratory personnel for opioid detection; $2.5 million for equipment for field labs for opioid detection; $20 million for the expansion of the National Targeting Center; $5 million for counter-network operations at the National Targeting Center; $2 million for the Office of Trade to enhance targeting activities; and $113 million for additional air and marine assets, to include three multi-enforcement aircraft. Increasing Technology Along the Border This bill includes $564 million for CBP to procure cutting-edge NII technology that will enable the agency to expedite the screening of a larger portion of the $11 billion worth of international trade that crosses our borders every day. CBP currently has 315 large-scale NII systems deployed at U.S. POEs to examine cargo conveyances such as sea containers, commercial trucks, and rail cars, as well as privately owned vehicles for the presence of contraband without physically opening or unloading them. This funding will go towards initiating a five-year plan to screen 100 percent of all vehicles that cross the southwest border. Increased technology at major ports of entry will increase efficiency significantly by increasing cargo capacity and reducing wait times. These improvements will reduce millions of dollars in lost economic output and create jobs at the border and across the United States. Increasing Canine Teams & Personnel Congressman Cuellar helped secure $29 million for law enforcement canine teams to assist in screening at POEs. The primary goal of the CBP Canine Program is terrorist detection and apprehension. The working CBP canine team has become the best tool available to detect and apprehend persons attempting entry to organize, incite, and carry out acts of terrorism. The Canine Program's secondary goal is detection and seizure of controlled substances and other contraband, often used to finance terrorist and/or criminal drug trafficking organizations. The combination of NII equipment, canine teams, and well-trained, highly skilled officers will allow CBP to help end the exploitation of the nation’s southwest land POEs while increasing trade and travel. Securing Pay Raises for Federal Employees As a member of the Conference Committee on Homeland Security Appropriations, the Congressman fought for increased pay to federal workers. He helped secure language as a part of the fiscal year 2019 Homeland Security spending bill that gives an average 1.9 percent pay raise to government workers. Through conference, Congressman Cuellar was able to secure this raise for federal employees because he understands that it is essential for both recruitment and retention that CBP be more competitive with wages so that they are able to retain agents and address staffing deficits. ###
03.11.2019	Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement on President Trump’s request for $8.6 billion for the border wall in his proposed budget for fiscal year 2020: “President Trump’s request is simply short-sighted and fiscally irresponsible. Any budget that allocates billions towards a border wall is bad policy and an unacceptable waste of taxpayer dollars. “Congress has made it clear that it refuses to fund an unnecessary and expensive 14th century wall. The President’s insistence over this funding has already proven itself futile: it resulted in a government shutdown, which hurt hundreds of thousands of citizens across the country. “My Democratic colleagues and I have stated, time and time again, that we support smart, effective border security. The President’s new request will make drastic cuts to key federal government programs and services, prolong federal deficits, and unnecessarily harm the American people. “I understand firsthand that a safe homeland starts with modern solutions that work including advanced technology, border personnel, and increased infrastructure at our ports of entry. As a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Committee, I worked with members from both sides of the aisle to include funding and language that will secure the border in a much more effective way, and at a fraction of the cost. I will continue reaching across the aisle, supporting 21st century security measures and protecting the welfare of the American people.”
03.11.2019	El Congresista Henry Cuellar emitió la siguiente declaración sobre la solicitud del presidente Trump de $8,6 mil millones para el muro fronterizo en su presupuesto propuesto para el año fiscal 2020: "La solicitud del presidente Trump es simplemente de poca visión para el futuro y fiscalmente irresponsable. Cualquier presupuesto que asigne miles de millones a un muro fronterizo es una mala política y una pérdida inaceptable de dólares de los contribuyentes. “El Congreso ha dejado claro que se niega a financiar un muro innecesario y costoso del siglo XIV. La insistencia del presidente sobre esta financiación ya ha demostrado ser inútil: dio lugar a un cierre del gobierno, que afectó a cientos de miles de ciudadanos en todo el país. “Mis colegas demócratas y yo hemos declarado, una y otra vez, que apoyamos la seguridad fronteriza inteligente y efectiva. La nueva solicitud del Presidente hará recortes drásticos a múltiples programas y servicios clave del gobierno federal, prolongará los déficits federales y dañará innecesariamente al pueblo estadounidense. “Entiendo de primera mano que una país seguro comienza con soluciones modernas que funcionan, incluida la tecnología avanzada, el personal de fronteras y una mayor infraestructura en nuestros puertos de entrada. Como miembro del Comité de la Conferencia de Asignaciones de Seguridad Nacional, trabajé con miembros de ambos lados de la hilera para incluir financiamiento y lenguaje legislativo que aseguren la frontera de una manera mucho más efectiva y a una fracción del costo. Seguiré trabajando de una manera bipartidista, apoyando las medidas de seguridad del siglo XXI y protegiendo el bienestar del pueblo estadounidense ."
03.11.2019	Rep. Cuellar Helps Secures 50 New Immigration Judge Teams in Conference Committee Congressman fights for immigration judges at the border WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the Conference Committee on Homeland Security Appropriations, announced that he helped secure 50 new immigration judge teams in the fiscal year 2019 appropriations package. This includes judges, support staff, technology and work space, in addition to many other border security measures and language that increases immigration court efficiency. The Congressman has been a longtime champion for increasing immigration court efficiency at the border. In the FY18 Appropriations Bill, Congressman Cuellar helped secure 100 judge teams, totaling 484 immigration judge teams. With the addition of 50 judge teams in FY19, the Executive Office for Immigration Review will have a total of 534 immigration judge teams to address the current backlog of over 800,000 immigration cases. The goal is to field 750 judges nationwide, including supervisors. Securing New Immigration Judges For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a priority to place additional immigration judges into border communities. He has secured: · In FY16, language hiring at least 55 new immigration judge teams, which includes judges, support staff, technology and work space, along with many other security measures to help process immigration cases and increase efficiency at the border; · In FY17, language hiring at least 10 judges; · In FY18, language hiring at least 100 judges; · In FY19, language hiring at least 50 judges. For a total of 215 judges. Increasing Court-Efficiency Initiatives In addition to the increase in immigration judges, the bill increases court-efficiency initiatives in two ways. Specifically, it calls for modifying the procedure for immigration judges to issue oral, instead of written, decisions and encourages judges to use preliminary hearings to screen cases to address frivolous filings and reduce court times required to process them. “Increasing the number of judges to process immigration cases is a common sense solution that should appeal to everyone, no matter how you feel about immigration policy,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “With a backlog of hundreds of thousands pending active cases, our immigration courts are in dire need of additional judges to expeditiously adjudicate these cases. For this reason, I requested additional judges at the border, so that we can expedite these processes and ensure the fair and humane treatment of migrants.” “Due in part to the lack of available judges, immigrants at the border are either detained for long periods of time or released into the United States with a promise to return at a later court date. Neither of those is a good option for immigrants or the enforcement of our laws. Having more judges at the border will help treat immigrants more fairly.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to give special thanks to Speaker Pelosi, members of the conference committee, Chairwoman Lowey, and Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee Chairman Serrano and Ranking Member Aderholt for working with me to help address the backlog of immigration cases. I will continue to work to secure additional judges, so that we may provide adequate assistance where it is needed most.” ###
02.28.2019	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that he included $97.5 million and language in the U.S. House of Representatives fiscal year 2019 Appropriations bill for the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Cattle Health Program, including $5 million specifically for research and scientific tools to eradicate cattle fever tick, and an additional $1 million for USDA Agriculture Research Service (ARS) to conduct research on cattle fever tick treatments. The provisions were included in a spending package that includes the homeland security; financial services; interior and environment; agriculture; commerce, justice, and science; transportation and housing; and foreign aid spending bills. It passed both chambers of Congress and was signed by the President into law. Congressman Cuellar said, “Our cattle producers contribute greatly to the economy and way of life in South Texas. They deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality. Fighting these ticks has been an ongoing, uphill battle since 2008, when I included language in the Farm Bill for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program that provided research grants to study cattle fever ticks and their eradication. The funds for the USDA-APHIS Cattle Health program this year are an important step in helping control the tick population and stop the spread of their disease.” The U.S. cattle industry is valued at roughly $81 billion. Cattle fever ticks carry microscopic parasites that cause anemia, fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, and often death for up to 90 percent of infected cattle. Along the Rio Grande, there is a Permanent Cattle Fever Tick Quarantine Zone, an area that spans eight counties on the border and over a half million acres stretching from the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville to Amistad Dam north of Del Rio, intended to prevent the spread of the often deadly tick-borne disease. Infestations have been reported elsewhere in Central and South Texas as well. In FY18, Congressman Cuellar helped secure millions of dollars for cattle health, including millions to fight fever ticks. In a restricted budget environment in which the President planned cuts to nearly every federal non-defense program, this level funding is a big win for the cattle industry. In FY17, USDA allocated $12.2 million from this account to fight the ticks in areas like Starr, Zapata, and Webb Counties in Texas. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Sanford Bishop and Ranking Member Jeff Fortenberry for helping me secure these funds,” Congressman Cuellar added. “I also want to thank the Texas Farm Bureau, Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, and the South Texans’ Property Rights Association for their consistent efforts to help highlight and battle this issue at the local, State, and Federal level for our Texas ranchers and cattle producers.” “Texas Farm Bureau (TFB) appreciates Congressman Henry Cuellar for continuing to make fever tick eradication a priority in Congress,” said TFB President Russell Boening. "He has again secured critical resources for fever tick research and ranchers impacted by the devastating pest. Congressman Cuellar is a steadfast champion for Texas agriculture, and we are proud to have him as a partner in eradicating the fever tick.” National Cattlemen's Beef Association Senior Vice President of Government Affairs Colin Woodall said, “Preventing and eradicating cattle fever ticks is a top animal health priority for NCBA. Congressman Cuellar’s tireless advocacy continues to play a critical role in ensuring that USDA officials have the resources they need to get the job done. The funding Congressman Cuellar helped secure will support ranching families in Texas who are forced to bear the brunt of this damaging pest.” "The South Texans' Property Rights Association considers Congressman Cuellar to be the leading champion of fever tick control in this country,” said Susan Kibbe, Executive Director of the South Texans' Property Rights Association. “He understands the issue better than anyone in political office and he has fought the hardest to maintain funding that is desperately needed to control this scourge that has plagued us since the 1940's and the research that will ultimately eliminate it." Read report language here.
02.26.2019	Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) co-sponsored Rep. Chris Smith’s (R-NJ) Charitable Giving Tax Deduction Act, H.R. 651—which he originally introduced in the 115th Congress— that would make charitable deductions universal and above-the-line, meaning that taxpayers can deduct charitable donations from their taxes whether or not they choose to itemize. As charitable giving is expected to decline by billions of dollars because of the new increase to the standard deduction, this bill would ensure that taxpayers who want to make tax-deductible donations to charities have the greatest flexibility possible to do so—either while itemizing their deductions, or taking the standard deduction. The amount of charitable contributions would not be capped under this legislation. As the lead Democratic co-sponsor of the legislation, Congressman Cuellar said, “I believe that it is always important to give back to the community. This bipartisan bill not only encourages us to help our fellow neighbors, but it also makes sure that taxpayers can receive their due deduction for charitable giving if they choose not to itemize. I thank Rep. Smith for his continued efforts on this issue and am glad to support this legislation that will encourage charitable actions.”
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement following President Donald J. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency: “The President’s declaration of this “so-called emergency” is a violation of constitutional authority to reallocate billions of federal dollars that have been already appropriated by the U.S. Congress. He is taking money away from the military, from our law enforcement officials and from many other needed services. His intent is to bypass congressional authority, the power of the purse which belongs to congress under our constitution, and follow through on his campaign promise. “I, along with many of my colleagues, disagree with the President’s mischaracterization of the border. The border is a place of opportunity, community, and family. “I live at the border— I eat the food, breathe the air, and call it home. According to the latest FBI statistics, the border is safer than most other places across the nation. There is no crisis. “As the only border member on the conference committee, I worked hard with appropriators from both parties and both chambers to find a compromise that will keep the government open and properly secure our southern border. This bipartisan bill to keep the government open was passed by the Senate on a 83- 16 vote, and the House by a 300-128 vote showing strong bipartisan support. “ ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON— El congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración luego de la declaración de emergencia nacional del presidente Donald J. Trump: “La declaración del Presidente de esta "llamada emergencia" es una violación de la autoridad constitucional para reasignar miles de millones de dólares federales que ya han sido asignados por el Congreso de los Estados Unidos. Le está quitando dinero a las fuerzas militares, a nuestros funcionarios encargados del cumplimiento de la ley y a muchos otros servicios necesarios. Su intención es eludir la autoridad del Congreso, el poder de la bolsa que pertenece al Congreso bajo nuestra constitución, y cumplir con su promesa de campaña. "Yo, junto con muchos de mis colegas, no estoy de acuerdo con la caracterización incorrecta de la frontera por parte del Presidente. La frontera es un lugar de oportunidad, comunidad y familia. “Vivo en la frontera, como su comida, respiro su aire y la llamo hogar. Según las últimas estadísticas del FBI, la frontera es más segura que la mayoría de otros lugares en todo el país. No hay crisis. “Como el único miembro fronterizo en el comité de la conferencia, trabajé arduamente con los procuradores de ambas partes y ambas cámaras para encontrar un compromiso que mantuviera al gobierno abierto y asegurara adecuadamente nuestra frontera sur. Este proyecto de ley bipartidista para mantener el gobierno abierto fue aprobado por el Senado en una votación de 83-16, y la Cámara de Representantes por una votación de 300-128 que muestra un fuerte apoyo bipartidista. “ ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the Conference Committee on Homeland Security Appropriations, announced that he added language in the fiscal year 2019 appropriations package to protect sensitive areas in the Rio Grande Valley. He also included language requiring U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to reach mutual agreements with local communities in Starr County regarding the design and alignment of border barriers. Specifically, the language: Prohibits funding for physical barriers: Within the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge; Within the Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park; Within La Lomita Historical park; Within the National Butterfly Center; or Within or east of the Vista del Mar Ranch tract of the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge (site of SpaceX commercial spaceport). Requires for the first time that CBP reach mutual agreements with local elected officials in Roma, Escobares, Rio Grande City, La Grulla, Salineño (cities where CBP has indicated it plans to build barriers) on the design and alignment of any barriers. This type of mutual agreement provision can be used as a model for other border cities in the future. “This is a big win for the Rio Grande Valley,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I worked hard to include this language because protecting these ecologically-sensitive areas and ensuring local communities have a say in determining the solutions that work for them is critical. I know we can secure the border in a much more effective way, and at a fraction of the cost, by utilizing advanced technology and increasing the agents and properly equipping them on the border.” Protecting Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park The family of the late Democratic U.S. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen sold 586.9 acres along the Rio Grande to the state of Texas in 1944 for a single dollar on condition that land be used “solely for public park purposes. Now, as part of the World Birding Center, Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park is a world-class destination for bird-watching and a protected area that has been set aside to conserve America’s fish, wildlife, and plant resources in the Congressman’s district that attract tourists from around the world. The Rio Grande Valley hosts one of the most spectacular convergences of birds on earth, with more than 525 species documented in this unique place. Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge Home to almost half of all butterfly species found in the United States, Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge is situated along the banks of the Rio Grande, south of Alamo in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, in Hidalgo County. The wildlife refuge was established for the protection of migratory birds in 1943. Its unique location is at the meeting of different climates and habitats: subtropical wetlands, Chihuahuan Desert, Gulf Coast, and Great Plains. Its riparian location has developed a reputation for diverse birding. It was originally slated by the Trump Administration as the starting point for the wall. Rep. Cuellar also helped secure a similar provision in last year’s appropriations bill to prohibit wall funding in or around the refuge. National Butterfly Center The National Butterfly Center is home to a 100-acre wildlife center and botanical garden that borders the Rio Grande River and is part of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Lower Rio Grande Valley Wildlife Corridor. According to the North American Butterfly Association (NABA), the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas has the most diverse butterfly and bird fauna of any area of the United States. La Lomita La Lomita is a Catholic chapel, built in 1899 in Mission, and a tourist attraction because of its rich history as a site where Calvary of Christ missionaries performed baptisms, marriages, and funerals. When the City of Mission, Texas was founded in 1908, the city was named “Mission” in honor of La Lomita chapel. Now, La Lomita chapel is a religious shrine and a favorite site of historians that provides a glimpse into an important part of the history of Mission and South Texas in general. SpaceX The Vista del Mar Ranch tract of land of the lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge, intended to be home to a SpaceX commercial spaceport, stands in the path of President Trump’s border wall plans. The land is a launch site still under construction in Boca Chica Village, a small community between the border town of Brownsville and the Gulf Coast. Starr County Protections The language Congressman Cuellar secured is the first of its kind and requires that mutual agreements between DHS and local officials are met in Starr County. Previously, in the Secure Fence Act of 2006, DHS is only required to engage in consultation with local communities. This “consultation” was not working. Instead, this language goes further and requires that mutual agreements be arrived at before DHS can build any barriers in or near cities in Starr. It would also provide a further check on DHS by ensuring that local residents have the opportunity to submit their input to DHS and receive the Department’s response to those comments. As further assurance, the Congressman personally received guarantee from top DHS officials that they would work towards mutually agreeable solutions with local communities along the border. “I have consistently worked to include language that reflects the ideas and priorities of local officials and community members in my district. This language ensures that CBP reaches mutual agreements with local communities prior to the construction of any barrier in Starr County. It encourages cooperation with all parties involved, making sure that communities at the border have a voice at the table.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi, Chairwomen Lowey and Roybal-Allard, along with committee conferees from both chambers and both sides of the aisle, for working hard to get this bill finished and including these important provisions in the package.” The fiscal year 2019 appropriations conference report, which is expected to pass the House, contains the remaining seven unpassed appropriations bills: Homeland Security; Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies; Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies; Financial Services and General Government; Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies; State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs; and Transportation, Housing and urban Development, and Related Agencies. The text of the FY19 Homeland Security Border Security Exclusions and Protections here. The text of the Conference Report to Accompany H.J. Res. 31 is available here. ###
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON– Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement on the passing of Representative John D. Dingell Jr. of Michigan, the longest serving Member of Congress: “Chairman John Dingell was a war hero, a public servant, and a loving husband and father. Through his 59 years of service, the American people witnessed his unyielding commitment and dedication to the betterment of our country.” “I saw firsthand his devotion to the people of Southeast Michigan, as well as the respect that he had earned over decades of public service from his colleagues on both sides of the aisle." “I am proud to have known him and to have served with him. As elected officials, the best we can hope for is to do enough good while in office so that we're able to help those in need and give a voice to those who lack one. Congressman Dingell accomplished that and so much more." “As we mourn his passing, I extend my condolences to his beloved wife, Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, and the entire Dingell family.” ###
02.06.2019	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg as his guest to President Donald J. Trump’s State of the Union Address on Tuesday at the U.S. Capitol and said the following: “Mayor Nirenberg has been a dedicated public servant and deserves thanks for his efforts in San Antonio. He has worked alongside myself and other officials on a variety of matters pertaining to infrastructure, education, defense, and veterans affairs. This year, we will continue addressing issues that greatly impact Military City, U.S.A. and the district. It was a pleasure to have the Mayor as my guest and I thank him for joining me at this annual address.” San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg attends the State of the Union Address as Congressman Henry Cuellar’s guest in Washington on Tuesday. Pictured left to right: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Mayor Ron Nirenberg, and Congressman Henry Cuellar
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON— This week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security, Defense and Agriculture, voted in favor of H.R.790 - Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019, which would overrule President Trump’s pay freeze for federal employees and bring the 2019 pay increase for them in line with the raise given to members of the military. Under the freeze, federal employees were not expected to receive a pay increase in 2019, while members of the military would have received a pay raise of 2.6 percent. This bill would override this rule, making the 2.6 percent pay increase for federal employees effective upon enactment. Congressman Cuellar stated: “Every day, I see firsthand the job that our federal employees perform. In this dynamic job market, it is essential for both recruitment and retention to be more competitive with wages. 800,000 American federal employees and their families were deeply affected by the longest shutdown in U.S. history, and are barely receiving their last paycheck from 2018. If the President’s freeze would have taken affect, it would have hurt an estimated of 2 million people will not receive an annual pay raise this year, including Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. “Refusing across-the-board pay raises for our federal employees is shortsighted, rash, and unjustified. Instead of providing our federal workers with raises they deserve, President Trump chooses to focus on allocating billions towards a senseless, ineffective border wall. “Our federal workers deserve better than the shutdowns, furloughs, and pay freezes. I will continue to support the welfare of our federal employees and I urge the President to sign full-year appropriations and take control of the national debt, instead of robbing federal employees of the raises they deserve.” ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON— Esta semana, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos y de los Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional, Defensa y Agricultura, votó a favor de HR790 - Ley Federal de Equidad de la Fuerza Laboral Civil de 2019, que anularía el bloqueo del presidente Trump de aumentos de salarios para los empleados federales e igualaría el aumento salarial de 2019 con el aumento otorgado a los miembros de las fuerzas armadas. Bajo el bloqueo, no se esperaba que los empleados federales recibieran un aumento en el 2019, mientras que los miembros del ejército habrían recibido un aumento del 2.6 por ciento. Este proyecto de ley anularía esta regla, haciendo que el aumento de pago del 2.6 por ciento para los empleados federales sea efectivo después de su promulgación. El Congresista Cuellar declaró: “Todos los días, veo de primera mano el trabajo que realizan nuestros empleados federales. En este mercado laboral dinámico, es esencial que tanto el reclutamiento como la retención sean más competitivos con los salarios. 800,000 empleados federales estadounidenses y sus familias se vieron profundamente afectados por el cierre más prolongado en la historia de los EE. UU., y apenas están recibiendo su último cheque de pago en 2018. Si el bloqueo del Presidente hubiera tenido efecto, habría afectado a un estimado de 2 millones de personas que no recibirán un aumento de sueldo anual este año, que incluye agentes de la Patrulla Fronteriza y de Inmigración y Control de Aduanas. "Rechazar los aumentos salariales generales para nuestros empleados federales es imprudente e injustificado. En lugar de proporcionar a nuestros trabajadores federales los aumentos que merecen, el presidente Trump decide concentrarse en asignar miles de millones a un muro fronterizo sin sentido e ineficaz. “Nuestros trabajadores federales merecen algo mejor que los cierres de gobiernos, y bloqueos de aumento de salario. Seguiré apoyando el bienestar de nuestros empleados federales e insto al Presidente a que firme las asignaciones de todo el año y tome el control de la deuda nacional, en lugar de robar a los empleados federales los aumentos que merecen". ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations Conference Committee and a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security, Defense and Agriculture, announced that he added language in the fiscal year 2019 Democratic border security proposal prohibiting the use of funds from this and prior year Acts to construct physical barriers in the following locations: · Within or north of the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge; · Within or north of the Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park; · Within or north of La Lomita Historical Park; · Within, south of, or north of the National Butterfly Center; or · Within, north of, or east of the Vista del Mar Ranch tract of the Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge, SpaceX. “This is a big win for South Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I worked hard to include this language because I know we can secure the border in a much more effective way, and at a fraction of the cost, by utilizing advanced technology and increasing the agents and properly equipping them on the border.” “I have been outspoken against President Trump’s wall because as someone who lives on the border, I understand firsthand that a massively expensive wall is nothing more than a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century challenge. I speak with constituents, landowners, and law enforcement professionals regularly and we all know that this is an ineffective use of taxpayer dollars.” “I would like to thank Congressmen Vela and Gonzalez for working with me on this language. In addition, I would like to thank Chairwomen Lowey, Roybal-Allard, and Speaker Pelosi for including these important provisions in the proposal.” Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge Federally protected habitat for the endangered ocelot and Gulf Coast jaguarundi, which was originally slated by the Trump Administration as the starting point for the wall. Rep. Cuellar also helped secure a similar provision in last year’s appropriations bill to prohibit wall funding in or around the refuge. Protecting Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park The Democratic funding package includes provisions prohibiting the use of funds for its construction in Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park, a protected area that have been set aside to conserve America’s fish, wildlife, and plant resources in the Congressman’s district that attract tourists from around the world. National Butterfly Center The National Butterfly Center is home to a 100-acre wildlife center and botanical garden that borders the Rio Grande River and is part of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Lower Rio Grande Valley Wildlife Corridor. According to the North American Butterfly Association (NABA), the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas has the most diverse butterfly and bird fauna of any area of the United States. La Lomita La Lomita is a Catholic chapel, built in 1899 in Mission, and is a tourist attraction because of its rich history as a site where Calvary of Christ missionaries performed baptisms, marriages, and funerals. When the City of Mission, Texas was founded in 1908, the city was named “Mission” in honor of La Lomita Chapel. Now, La Lomita Chapel is a religious shrine and a favorite site of historians that provides a glimpse into an important part of the history of Mission and South Texas in general. SpaceX The Vista del Mar Ranch tract of land of the lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge, intended to be home to a SpaceX commercial spaceport, stands in the path of President Trump’s border wall plans. The land is a launch site still under construction in Boca Chica Village, a small community between the border town of Brownsville and the Gulf Coast. Please see link to Democratic border security proposal here. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak at the conference committee here.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON— Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos y de los Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional, Defensa y Agricultura, publicó la siguiente declaración sobre un nuevo informe de la Oficina de Presupuesto del Congreso (CBO) que muestra que el cierre de gobierno de Trump costó permanentemente a la economía nacional $3 mil millones: “Los cierres de gobierno tienen un gran impacto a la economía de las familias y las empresas, pero como este informe también indica, también tuvo un impacto en nuestra economía nacional. Estas cifras son una prueba innegable de que el último cierre del gobierno costó miles de millones de dólares que deberían haberse destinado a la prosperidad económica de Estados Unidos. Como miembro del comité de la conferencia, me comprometo a trabajar con mis colegas de ambos lados de la hilera para asegurarnos de promulgar las asignaciones de un año y mantener abierto a nuestro gobierno para que no haya más daños en nuestra economía." ###
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security, Defense and Agriculture, released the following statement on a new Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report showing that the Trump Shutdown permanently cost the national economy $3 billion: “Shutdowns impact both families and businesses economically, but as this report also indicates the overall consequence on our national economy. These numbers are undeniable proof that the last government shutdown cost billions of dollars that should have gone towards America’s economic prosperity. As a member of the conference committee I am committed to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to make certain we enact year-long appropriations and keep our government open so that no further damage comes to our economy.” ###
01.25.2019	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security, Defense and Agriculture, released the following statement following a deal made with Congressional leaders and the President to reopen the federal government through February 15, ending the government shutdown: “Finally, the President has taken measures to reopen the federal government and relieve the American people of their suffering after 35 crippling days. As Democrats have repeatedly said, we must first open the government, pay employees, and then negotiate a compromise. However, this measure will only fund the government for the next three weeks. We must secure year-long funding and meet at the negotiating table in order to reach a compromise on border security. Let one thing be clear: Democrats continue to support strong, smart, and effective border security solutions instead of wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on an ineffective wall. I will continue to work with my colleagues from both sides to reach a long-term bipartisan compromise.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security, Defense and Agriculture, voted in support of H.R. 648, a bipartisan package to reopen the federal government and fund all agencies outside Homeland Security through September 30. This package provides yet another chance for Senate GOP and the President to end the government shutdown, allowing both sides to negotiate a compromise on border security. It also includes language ensuring federal employees who are working without pay or who have been furloughed receive back pay. "After 33 days, we are continuing to actively take steps to relieve the American people of the unnecessary suffering caused by President Trump's senseless government shutdown,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In my district, I spoke with constituents who have fallen victim to these unfortunate circumstances. I talked to small business owners, federal law enforcement agents and officers, SNAP recipients, TSA employees, correctional officers, who all share mutual concerns over the government shutdown impacting them and their families. I personally chose to withhold my pay until the government shutdown ends because I not only heard their stories, but I felt their tremendous pain. “Democrats continue to support strong, smart, and effective border security solutions instead of wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on an ineffective wall. In an effort to resolve the budget impasse, I offered a counter proposal to the Democratic leadership that would provide 21st century border security investments as a compromise to President Trump’s $5.7 billion border wall. It calls for advanced technology to detect drugs and unauthorized crossings, increased customs personnel, and expanded infrastructure at our ports of entry. "In order to properly reach a compromise, the government first has to reopen and return to regular order. With the government open and federal employee financial uncertainty ended, both sides can meet at the negotiation table to work on a long-term bipartisan compromise." This bipartisan six-bill package proposal is based on spending measures negotiated by House and Senate appropriators in the last few months. It will reopen key federal agencies funded under the Agriculture-FDA, Commerce-Justice-Science, Financial Services, Interior-Environment, State-Foreign Operations and Transportation-HUD appropriations bills. This legislation includes a number of Democratic priorities, as well as more than $1.6 billion in border security-related measures: · $524.2 million for improvements in ports of entry: The Financial Services and General Government bill includes $524.2 million for investments in ports of entry, in order to meet the latest security requirements, improve border security, and increase capacity for vehicular traffic. · $563.4 million for additional immigration judges: The Commerce-Justice-Science bill in the package includes $563.4 million to accelerate the recruitment and hiring of additional immigration judges, in order to address the backlog in processing immigration cases. · $527 million for assistance to Central America: The State-Foreign Operations-Related Programs bill includes $527 million for assistance to Central America, a critical investment in addressing conditions in Central American countries that many migrants are fleeing from. Congressman Cuellar has continued to offer alternative solutions to the border wall. The following attachment contains 21st century border security investments, as opposed to President Trump’s $5.7 billion request for a 14th century wall. ###
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees on Homeland Security, Defense, and Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies, released the following statement calling for an end to President Trump’s crippling government shutdown: “The American people are ready for President Trump to put an end to this crippling government shutdown. It continues to harm our economy, key federal agencies, and government workers across the country, costing the U.S. economy an estimated $1.2 billion each week and counting (Politico). “This senseless campaign promise is already costing the public more than the $5.7 billion border wall that President Trump refuses to concede. It continues to threaten our most vulnerable constituents including federal employees and government contractors (Roll Call). In the State of Texas alone, the government shutdown is affecting over 3.8 million SNAP recipients. Federal workers who are working without pay are not eligible to claim unemployment and many employees have resorted to going to food banks and charities for help. This is an insult to our federal employees and to families in my district that depend on these vital resources. “Furthermore, there have been unprecedented levels of poor morale amongst border patrol agents and CBP officers, as they continue to work overtime without pay, providing essential border security (KUT). And yet, with all these facts in mind, President Trump continues to reject any notion of a compromise— he has repeatedly refused to reopen key federal agencies until he receives funding for the border wall. “American families, employees, and communities across the country deserve to receive their paychecks. They deserve to be able to provide for their families. They deserve a President who will put aside his insistence on the wall and instead focus on ending the government shutdown.” ###
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON- Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes y los Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional, Defensa y Agricultura, Desarrollo Rural, Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos y Agencias Relacionadas publicó la siguiente declaración en la que pide terminar el cierre de gobierno del Presidente Trump: “El pueblo estadounidense está listo para que el presidente Trump ponga fin a este cierre del gobierno. El cierre continúa perjudicando a nuestra economía, a las agencias federales clave y a los trabajadores gubernamentales en todo el país, lo que le cuesta a la economía los EE. UU. un estimado de $ 1200 millones de dólares cada semana, lo cual sigue aumentando (Politico). "Esta promesa de campaña sin sentido ya le está costando al público más que el muro de $5700 millones de dólares que el presidente Trump se niega a ceder. Sigue afectando nuestros constituyentes más vulnerables, incluidos los empleados federales y los contratistas gubernamentales (Roll Call). Solo en el estado de Texas, el cierre del gobierno está afectando a aproximadamente 3.8 millones de beneficiarios de beneficios SNAP. Los trabajadores federales que trabajan sin paga no califican para beneficios de desempleo y muchos empleados han recurrido a los bancos de alimentos y organizaciones benéficas en busca de ayuda. Esto es un insulto para nuestros empleados federales y las familias en mi distrito. “Además, ha habido niveles sin precedentes de mala moral entre los agentes de la patrulla fronteriza y los oficiales de CBP, ya que continúan trabajando, brindando seguridad fronteriza esencial, sin recibir su sueldo (KUT). Aun así con todos estos hechos en mente, el presidente Trump continúa rechazando cualquier noción de compromiso. "Las familias, los empleados y las comunidades estadounidenses de todo el país merecen recibir sus sueldos. Merecen poder mantener a sus familias. Merecen un presidente que quiera dejar de lado su insistencia en el muro y, en cambio, centrarse en poner fin al cierre del gobierno." ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON— Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) was appointed to the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee on the U.S. House Appropriations Committee for the 116thCongress. He will also continue serving on the Homeland Security and Defense Subcommittees. “I look forward to continuing to serve on the House Appropriations Committee with a new assignment on Agriculture,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I understand the important role this subcommittee plays in providing all Americans with the safest, most abundant food source in the world as well as the support it offers to our ranchers and farmers. This appointment will allow me to more actively take part in addressing agricultural issues of critical importance to rural communities in the 28thDistrict of Texas and across the country.” “Texas Farm Bureau is very proud of Congressman Henry Cuellar for being appointed to the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture,” said Texas Farm Bureau (TFB) President Russell Boening. “Congressman Cuellar has been a true friend and steadfast advocate for Texas farmers and ranchers. He has worked hard on key issues important to TFB, such as providing resources to help eradicate the cattle fever tick and increasing trade opportunities. We know he will serve his constituents and agriculture very well in his new role, and we congratulate him on this major accomplishment.” “As a strong advocate for America’s farmers and ranchers, Congressman Cuellar is an excellent choice for the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee,” said National Cattlemen’s Beef Association President Kevin Kester. “We look forward to working with him to address the policy priorities of cattlemen and cattlewomen in the 116th Congress. Together we can support rural livelihoods and help feed families in the United States and around the world.” As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar is tasked with oversight of the Federal budget, review of proposed expenditures, and crafting the legislation that outlines annual spending for government agencies. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I remain committed to serving on the Homeland Security and Defense Subcommittees, bolstering our nation’s role in national defense, national security, and intelligence. Now, more than ever, we need the utilize our resources to continue leading in innovation and technology, while being good stewards of taxpayer dollars. I will continue to work with my colleagues through the appropriations process, making the country safer and more secure.” Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies The Agriculture Subcommittee is responsible for reviewing funding for the Department of Agriculture (USDA), Farm Credit Administration, Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation, Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The subcommittee provides funding for farmers, ranchers, rural development, small business development, nutrition programs, food banks, school lunches, and more. Subcommittee on Homeland Security The Homeland Security Subcommittee is responsible for reviewing funding for the Department of Homeland Security which includes Customs and Border Protection (CBP), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Coast Guard, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and the Office of Domestic Preparedness Funding, among others. Subcommittee on Defense The Defense Subcommittee is responsible for reviewing funding for the Department of Defense, as well as the Central Intelligence Agency. The Defense Subcommittee has oversight of the largest component of federal discretionary spending. The Committee provides funding for our troops, weapons programs, and military conflicts abroad. ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON— Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) fue al Subcomité de Agricultura, Desarrollo Rural, Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos, y Agencias Relacionadas en el Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos para el 116º Congreso. También continuará sirviendo en los Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional y Defensa. "Espero poder continuar trabajando en el Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes con una nueva asignación en Agricultura," dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Entiendo el importante papel que desempeña este subcomité para brindar a todos los estadounidenses la fuente de alimentos más segura y abundante del mundo, así como el apoyo que ofrece a nuestros ganaderos y agricultores. Esta asignación me permitirá participar más activamente en el tratamiento de temas agrícolas de importancia crítica para las comunidades rurales en el Distrito 28 de Texas y en todo el país." "Texas Farm Bureau está muy orgulloso del Congresista Henry Cuellar por haber sido nombrado al Subcomité de Agricultura de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE. UU.," dijo el presidente de la Oficina de Agricultura de Texas (TFB), Russell Boening. “El Congresista Cuellar ha sido un verdadero amigo y defensor constante de los agricultores y ganaderos de Texas. Ha trabajado arduamente en temas clave importantes para TFB, como proporcionar recursos para ayudar a erradicar la garrapata de la fiebre del ganado y aumentar las oportunidades comerciales. Sabemos que servirá muy bien a sus electores y a la agricultura en su nuevo cargo, y lo felicitamos por este gran logro.” "Como un firme defensor de los agricultores y ganaderos de Estados Unidos, el Congresista Cuellar es una excelente opción para el Subcomité de Asignaciones de Agricultura", dijo el presidente de la Asociación Nacional de Ganaderos Kevin Kester. "Esperamos con interés trabajar con él para abordar las prioridades políticas de los ganaderos el 116 ° Congreso. Juntos podemos apoyar los medios de vida rurales y ayudar a alimentar a las familias en los Estados Unidos y en todo el mundo." Como miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes, el Congresista Cuellar tiene la tarea de supervisar el presupuesto federal, revisar los gastos propuestos y crear la legislación que describe el gasto anual para las agencias gubernamentales. El Congresista Cuellar continuó: “Sigo comprometido a servir en los Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional y Defensa, reforzando el papel de nuestra nación en la defensa nacional, la seguridad nacional y la inteligencia. Ahora más que nunca necesitamos utilizar nuestros recursos para continuar liderando la innovación y la tecnología, al mismo tiempo que cuidemos el dinero de los contribuyentes. Seguiré trabajando con mis colegas a través del proceso de asignaciones, haciendo que el país sea más seguro." Subcomité de Agricultura, Desarrollo Rural, Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos y agencias relacionadas El Subcomité de Agricultura es responsable de revisar los fondos para el Departamento de Agricultura (USDA), la Administración de Créditos Agrícolas, la Corporación de Asistencia Financiera del Sistema de Créditos Agrícolas, la Comisión de Comercio de Futuros de Productos Básicos (CFTC) y la Administración de Alimentos y Medicamentos (FDA). El Subcomité proporciona fondos para agricultores, ganaderos, desarrollo rural, desarrollo de pequeñas empresas, programas de nutrición, bancos de alimentos, almuerzos escolares y más. Subcomité de Seguridad Nacional El Subcomité de Seguridad Nacional es responsable de revisar los fondos para el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional, que incluye Aduanas y Protección Fronteriza (CBP), Inmigración y Control de Aduanas de los EE. UU. (ICE), la Guardia Costera, la Agencia Federal de Gestión de Emergencias (FEMA), Ciudadanía de los Estados Unidos y Servicios de Inmigración (USCIS), y la Oficina de Financiamiento de Preparación Doméstica, entre otros. Subcomité de Defensa El Subcomité de Defensa es responsable de revisar los fondos para el Departamento de Defensa, así como para la Agencia Central de Inteligencia. El Subcomité de Defensa supervisa el componente más importante de los gastos federales discrecionales. El Comité proporciona fondos para nuestras tropas, programas de armas y conflictos militares en el extranjero. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security and Defense, released the following statement on withholding his pay during the government shutdown: “I chose to withhold my pay because I stand with the 800,000 federal employees across the country who missed their first paychecks due to President Trump’s blatant refusal to reopen the federal government. It’s simple: If they’re not going to get paid, I’m not going to get paid until the government shutdown is over. I urge the President to put aside his insistence on the wall, focus on reopening the government, and provide the American people with the paychecks, benefits, and services they rely on.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON— Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE. UU., Subcomités de Seguridad Nacional y Defensa, emitió la siguiente declaración sobre la retención de su salario durante el cierre del gobierno: "Elegí retener mi pago porque estoy con los 800,000 empleados federales en todo el país quienes no recibieron sus sueldos debido a la decisión negativa del presidente Trump al rehusarse a reabrir el gobierno federal. Así de sencillo: si ellos no van a recibir su sueldo, yo tampoco voy a recibir mi sueldo hasta que termine el cierre de gobierno. Insto al presidente a que deje de lado su insistencia en construir el muro, se centre en reabrir el gobierno federal y proporcione a los estadounidenses los cheques de pago, los beneficios y los servicios de los que dependen." ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security and Defense, voted in favor of H.R. 265, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, and H.R. 267, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The first bill passed the House with full democratic support and 10 Republicans in favor. The second passed with full democratic support and 12 Republicans in favor. If signed into law, both bipartisan bills will reopen these and other related agencies through September 30. Congressman Cuellar said, “Today, I voted to reopen key federal agencies so that American families, business, and communities across the country receive benefits and services that allow them to lead healthy lives. These bills provide funding for critical nutrition and farm programs like Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), a vital lifeline for millions of vulnerable Texas families. They also restore services for homebuyers and renters and ensure air travel and highway transportation are safe for all Americans. “House Democrats agree that our top priority is to reopen the federal government. Today’s votes were not about the wall, but about making sure that the government continues to meet the needs of the American people. I ask the President to take action, reopen the government, and lead the country out of this unnecessary stalemate.” ###
01.10.2019	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced the passage of H.R. 133, the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act, in the House of Representatives. This bipartisan legislation will bolster professional development and economic growth in both countries, including in the border region in Texas, with a focus on the energy, health, entrepreneurship, and education sectors. It will next be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration. The goal of the bill is to promote a bilingual workforce that can better serve both sides of the border and increase economic development in the region. Its co-sponsors include Reps. David Cicilline (RI-1), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Brad Sherman (CA-30). “The relationship between the United States and Mexico runs deep through commercial, cultural, and educational partnerships,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Mexico is the United States’ second-largest export market and third-largest trading partner, with an estimated $615 billion in two-way trade between the two countries in 2017. With this in mind, it is imperative that we strengthen these relations and foster economic growth for all partners involved.” According to the Institute of International Education, in the 2015-2016 academic year, more than 56,000 U.S. students studied in other countries in the Western Hemisphere, while more than 84,000 non-U.S. students from the region studied in the U.S., but only 5,000 of those United States students studied in Mexico and only 16,000 of those non-U.S. students were from Mexico. Increasing Bilateral Economic Integration Both countries have benefited from bilateral, mutually beneficial partnerships focused on advancing each country’s economic interests. Under the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act, the State Department would create a strategy to further support economic relations between the U.S. and Mexico through academic and professional programs to contribute to this goal. Expanding Professional and Educational Exchange Programs The State Department currently supports exchange programs with Mexico through grants from the 100,000 Strong in Americas initiative, which was founded in 2011. The program has provided more than 100 grants to 250 institutions in 25 countries. The measure will require the State Department to create a strategy that expands educational and professional exchange programs with Mexico through the initiative. Specifically, it will: 1. Encourage more academic exchange programs at the secondary, post-secondary, and post-graduate levels, especially with communities and through academic institutions in the border region; 2. Encourage academic institutions and businesses to collaborate to support entrepreneurs and joint business initiatives; 3. Promote energy infrastructure coordination through vocational-level education and internships, particularly in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas; and 4. Require the State Department to assess the feasibility of facilitating partnerships between universities and medical and nursing programs in both countries. Congressman Cuellar said, “I introduced the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act so that we can continue to deepen our relationship with Mexico both through economic integration and educational programs. Increasing academic exchanges in the energy, business, education, and health sectors will increase economic prosperity in both nations and allow us to further capitalize on the strengths each country has to offer.” He continued, “I would like to thank Congressman McCaul for co-sponsoring this bipartisan piece of legislation. I also thank House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel for taking up this bill and advancing it through committee. I look forward to seeing the bill through to passage.” Congressman Michael McCaul said, “As the lead Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and former Chairman of the U.S.-Mexico Inter-Parliamentary Group, I have long advocated for enhancing and strengthening the close relationship with our southern neighbor. This legislation states our commitment to promoting the academic exchanges between our two countries in the fields of business, energy, and health care. I look forward to future opportunities to enhance our shared commitment to economic empowerment, and thank my friend and fellow Texan, Congressman Cuellar, for his leadership on this important issue.” “The Border Trade Alliance appreciates the bipartisan leadership and collaboration between Rep. Cuellar and Rep. McCaul to strengthen the economic and educational bonds between the United States and Mexico,” Border Trade Alliance (BTA) President Ms. Britton Clarke said. “With this legislation, we are better preparing the border region workforce for tomorrow’s jobs, which will enhance the entire region’s economic competitiveness.” Laredo Mayor and Texas Border Coalition (TBC) Chairman Pete Saenz said, "Border communities understand better than most that the United States grows stronger as the depth of our relationships with our neighbors grow deeper. This is especially true in terms of academic and economic relationships. The Texas Border Coalition salutes Representative Cuellar for his efforts to increase America's strength by improving our relations with our neighbors.” Read text of the bill language here.
01.10.2019	Ayer, los Congresistas Henry Cuellar (TX-28) y Michael McCaul (TX-10) anunciaron la aprobación de H.R. 133, la Ley de Asociación Económica de Estados Unidos y México, en la Cámara de Representantes. Esta legislación bipartidista reforzará el desarrollo profesional y el crecimiento económico en ambos países, incluida la región fronteriza de Texas, con un enfoque en los sectores de energía, salud, iniciativa empresarial y educación. Este proyecto de ley será enviado al Senado de los Estados Unidos para consideración. El objetivo del proyecto de ley es promover una fuerza laboral bilingüe que pueda servir mejor a ambos lados de la frontera y aumentar el desarrollo económico en la región. Sus copatrocinadores incluyen a David Cicilline (RI-1), Vicente González (TX-15) y Brad Sherman (CA-30). La relación entre los Estados Unidos y México está fuertemente establecida través de asociaciones comerciales, culturales y educativas. México es uno de los tres principales socios comerciales de los Estados Unidos, con un estimado de $615 mil millones en comercio bilateral entre los dos países en el 2017. "La relación entre los Estados Unidos y México está establecida a través de asociaciones comerciales, culturales y educativas," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “México es el segundo mercado de exportación más grande de los Estados Unidos y el tercer socio comercial más grande, con un estimado de $615 mil millones en comercio bilateral entre los dos países en 2017. Teniendo esto en cuenta, es crucial que fortalezcamos estas relaciones y fomentemos el crecimiento económico de todos los socios involucrados." Según el Instituto de Educación Internacional, en el año académico 2015-2016, más de 56,000 estudiantes de EE. UU. estudiaron en otros países del hemisferio occidental, mientras que más de 84,000 estudiantes no estadounidenses de la región estudiaron en los EE. UU., pero solo 5,000 de los estudiantes estadounidenses estudiaron en México y solo 16,000 de esos estudiantes no estadounidenses fueron mexicanos. Incrementando la integración económica bilateral Ambos países se han beneficiado de alianzas bilaterales y mutuamente beneficas centradas en promover los intereses económicos de cada país. Bajo la Ley de Asociación Económica de México y Estados Unidos, el Departamento de Estado crearía una estrategia para apoyar aún más las relaciones económicas entre los Estados Unidos y México a través de programas académicos y profesionales para contribuir a este objetivo. Ampliando los programas de intercambio profesional y educativo El Departamento de Estado actualmente apoya programas de intercambio con México a través de subvenciones de la iniciativa 100,000 Strong in Americas, que fue fundada en 2011. El programa ha otorgado más de 100 subvenciones a 250 instituciones en 25 países. La medida requerirá que el Departamento de Estado cree una estrategia que amplíe los programas de intercambio educativo y profesional con México a través de la iniciativa. Específicamente, este programa: 1. Alentará más programas de intercambio académico en los niveles secundario, postsecundario y de posgrado, especialmente con las comunidades y mediante instituciones académicas en la región fronteriza; 2. Alentará a las instituciones académicas y las empresas a colaborar para apoyar a los empresarios y las iniciativas empresariales conjuntas; 3. Promoverá la coordinación de la infraestructura energética a través de la educación vocacional y las pasantías, particularmente en Eagle Ford Shale en el sur de Texas; y 4. Requerirá al Departamento de Estado que evalúe la viabilidad de facilitar las asociaciones entre las universidades y los programas médicos y de enfermería en ambos países. El Congresista Cuellar dijo: “Presenté la Ley de Asociación Económica México-Estados Unidos para que podamos continuar profundizando nuestra relación con México a través de programas de integración económica y educación. El aumento de los intercambios académicos en los sectores de energía, negocios, educación y salud aumentará la prosperidad económica en ambas naciones y nos permitirá capitalizar aún más las cualidades que cada país tiene para ofrecer." Continuó: "Me gustaría agradecer al Congresista McCaul por copatrocinar esta legislación bipartidista. También agradezco al presidente de la Comisión de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara de Representantes Eliot Engel por asumir este proyecto de ley y adoptarlo a través del comité. Espero ver que este proyecto de ley sea promulgado." El Congresista Michael McCaul dijo: “Como el líder republicano en el Comité de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara y ex-presidente del Grupo Interparlamentario de Estados Unidos y México, he abogado durante mucho tiempo por mejorar y fortalecer la relación con nuestro vecino del sur. Esta legislación establece nuestro compromiso con la promoción de los intercambios académicos entre nuestros dos países en los campos de negocios, energía y salud. Espero oportunidades futuras para mejorar nuestro compromiso con la oportunidad económica, y agradezco a mi amigo y colega de Texas, el Congresista Cuellar, por su liderazgo en este importante tema.” "La Alianza de Comercio Fronterizo aprecia el liderazgo y la colaboración bipartidistas entre los Representantes Cuellar y McCaul para fortalecer los vínculos económicos y educativos entre los Estados Unidos y México," dijo la Presidenta de la Alianza de Comercio Fronterizo (BTA), la Sra. Britton Clarke. "Con esta legislación, estamos preparando mejor a la fuerza laboral de la región fronteriza para los empleos del mañana, lo que mejorará la competitividad económica de toda la región." El Alcalde de Laredo y presidente de la Coalición Fronteriza de Texas (TBC), Pete Saenz, dijo: "Las comunidades fronterizas entienden mejor que la mayoría de los Estados Unidos, ya que Estados Unidos se fortalece a medida que nuestras relaciones con nuestros vecinos se fortalecen. Esto es especialmente cierto en términos de relaciones académicas y económicas. La Coalición Fronteriza de Texas agradece al Representante Cuellar por sus esfuerzos para aumentar la fortaleza de Estados Unidos al mejorar nuestras relaciones con nuestros vecinos." Lea el texto del proyecto de ley aquí.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON— Congressman Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, helped pass H. Res. 6, A Resolution Providing for the House Rules of the 116th Congress, which establishes congressional House rules. The resolution included a measure restoring the bipartisan Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) rules. PAYGO, a Blue Dog initiative, requires that both mandatory spending and tax cuts must be offset to prevent increasing the national debt. The last time PAYGO was in place was 2010, when the Blue Dog Coalition worked with Democratic Leadership to restore the rules to ensure the government does not spend beyond its means. However, when Republicans took the majority in 2011, they excluded tax cuts and other policies decreasing revenue from PAYGO rules. During that time, Congressman Cuellar and his colleagues in the fiscally conservative coalition have worked to pass legislation that would restore PAYGO rules that require offsets for both spending increases and revenue decreases, reining-in federal spending and drawing down the nation’s debt. “Reinstating PAYGO is the swiftest action we can take to restore fiscal responsibility," said Congressman Cuellar. "This legislation was built on bipartisan ideas to better our economy— under these rules, Congress can’t spend a penny without cutting a penny from elsewhere. “It is time that we address our country’s unprecedented debt, almost $22 trillion, head on. PAYGO is a crucial step in this goal, ultimately reducing the deficit and putting the economy back on track for the benefit of the American people.” ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON— Yesterday, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) voted in support of a legislation package that was considered by the U.S. House of Representatives, which would reopen the federal government and end the Trump Shutdown. The legislative package consists of two components, each of which were voted on separately and passed in the House on Thursday. The first is a package of six appropriations bills (see attachment below) that have been approved on a bipartisan basis in the Senate (four on the Senate floor on a 92-6 vote, and two in the Senate Appropriations Committee, on a 31-0 and 30-1 vote). The second is a Continuing Resolution for Homeland Security that will extend current levels of funding for that department through February 8. Congressman Cuellar said, “I am encouraged to see the successful package of this legislative package in the House. The new Democratic majority in the House has made it a top priority to end the Trump Shutdown by passing legislation that will reopen the federal government, without including funding for a senseless border wall. “Although this comprehensive package provides vital resources to federal agencies and the people that depend on them, we cannot keep running the government on continuing resolutions. I will continue to work with my colleagues on passing a full-year fiscal 2019 Homeland Security funding measure, that does not include a wall.” Watch the Congressman speak on the House Floor here. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON— Ayer, el Congresista Cuellar (TX-28) votó a favor de un paquete de legislación que fue considerado por la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos, que reabriría el gobierno federal y terminaría el cierre de gobierno de Trump. El paquete legislativo consta de dos componentes, cada uno de los cuales se votó por separado y se aprobó en la Cámara el jueves. El primero es un paquete de seis proyectos de ley de asignaciones (vea documento adjunto) que han sido aprobados de manera bipartidista en el Senado (cuatro en el Senado en una votación de 92-6, y dos en el Comité de Asignaciones del Senado, en un voto de 31-0 y 30-1). El segundo es una Resolución Continua para Seguridad Nacional que extenderá los niveles actuales de financiamiento para ese departamento hasta el 8 de febrero. El Congresista Cuellar dijo: “Me alienta ver el éxito de este paquete legislativo en la Cámara. La nueva mayoría demócrata en la Cámara de Representantes ha dado prioridad a finalizar el cierre de gobierno de Trump al aprobar una legislación que reabrirá el gobierno federal, sin incluir fondos para un muro fronterizo sin sentido. “Aunque este paquete integral proporciona recursos vitales para las agencias federales y las personas que dependen de ellos, no podemos seguir dirigiendo al gobierno con resoluciones continuas. Continuaré trabajando con mis colegas para aprobar una medida de financiamiento de Seguridad Nacional del año fiscal 2019 para todo el año, que no incluya un muro.” Vea al congresista hablar en el la Cámara de Representantes aquí. ###
01.03.2019	Today, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) was sworn into his eight term in the United States House of Representatives. After his swearing-in, Congressman Cuellar noted the following: “I am proud to continue serving the 28th Congressional District and the people of Texas. As Democrats enter a new majority in the House, we are prepared to re-open government, enact full-year appropriations, and make sure that the federal government continues to stay open year after year. “I will work with my colleagues to enact policies our constituents sent us to Washington to fight for, including lowering healthcare and prescription drug costs, improving transportation infrastructure, increasing access to care and benefits for our troops and veterans, helping ranchers and farmers, providing access to higher education, promoting a vision of border security that does not include a wall, as well as building upon the success of NAFTA. "My constituents in the 28th District need a strong voice in Washington. Texan families deserve good jobs, affordable education and quality healthcare and I stand ready to get to work right away.” Congressman Cuellar was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2004 and is currently a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Chief Deputy Whip and a member of the Blue Dog Coalition. He previously served as Texas Secretary of State and represented Laredo in the Texas House of Representatives for 14 years. Congressman Cuellar has a well-deserved reputation for being a strong and independent voice for Texans, often reaching across party lines to craft bipartisan solutions for pressing issues facing both Texas and the country. In the 116th Congress, Congressman Cuellar intends to build upon his success to further serve his constituents. Specifically, he seeks to pass legislation to: Enact and enter into force an updated NAFTA, also known as the USMCA Bolster border security without funding a border wall Address the root causes of immigration in Central and Latin America Increase access to higher education for all Texans, including those in underrepresented communities Require more responsible spending in Washington Protect the Affordable Care Act and increase access to health insurance and medical care Increase access to care and benefits for our troops and veterans Provide a solution for DREAMers Continue to streamline border operations to increase cross-border trade Increase government transparency The Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi led today's traditional swearing-in ceremony on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar recited the oath that every Member of Congress has sworn since 1884: "I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God." Congressman Cuellar stands with wife Imelda Cuellar and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to take the official oath of office as the 116th Congress formally convened on Thursday in Washington, D.C. Pictured from left: House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Imelda Cuellar, Congressman Henry Cuellar
01.03.2019	Hoy, el Congresista Cuellar (TX-28) tomo protesta en su octavo periodo en la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos. Después de su juramento, el Congresista Cuellar declaró lo siguiente: “Me enorgullece continuar sirviendo al Distrito 28 y al pueblo de Texas. A medida que los demócratas ingresan a una nueva mayoría en la Cámara, estamos preparados para reabrir el gobierno, aprobar asignaciones para todo el año y asegurarnos de que el gobierno federal continúe abierto año tras año. "Trabajaré con mis colegas para promulgar y luchar por legislaciones por las cuales nuestros electores nos enviaron a Washington, lo que incluye reducir los costos de atención médica y medicamentos recetados, mejorar la infraestructura de transporte, aumentar el acceso a la atención y los beneficios para nuestras tropas y veteranos, ayudar a la industria ganadera y agropecuaria, a proporcionar el acceso a la educación superior, promover una visión de seguridad fronteriza que no incluya un muro, así como también aprovechar el éxito del TLCAN. "Mis electores en el Distrito 28 necesitan una voz en Washington. Las familias de Texas merecen buenos trabajos, una educación asequible y atención médica de calidad, y estoy listo para comenzar a trabajar de inmediato en estos temas." El Congresista Cuellar fue electo por primera vez a la Cámara de Representantes de los EE. UU. en el 2004 y actualmente es miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara, Líder Adjunto del partido mayoritario y miembro de la coalición Blue Dog Coalition. Anteriormente se desempeñó como Secretario de Estado de Texas y representó a Laredo en la Cámara de Representantes de Texas durante 14 años. El Congresista Cuellar tiene una reputación bien merecida por ser una voz fuerte e independiente para los tejanos, que a menudo se extiende a lo largo de las líneas del partido para crear soluciones bipartidistas para los problemas más importantes que enfrentan Texas y el país. En el Congreso 116, el Congresista Cuellar tiene la intención de aprovechar su éxito para servir aún más a sus electores. Específicamente, busca aprobar legislación para: • Promulgar un TLCAN actualizado, también conocido como USMCA • Reforzar la seguridad fronteriza sin financiar un muro fronterizo • Abordar las causas fundamentales de la inmigración en América Central y América Latina. • Aumentar el acceso a la educación superior para todos los tejanos, incluidos aquellos en comunidades sub-representadas • Exigir un gasto más responsable en Washington • Proteger la Ley del Cuidado de Salud a Bajo Precio e incrementar el acceso a seguros de salud y atención médica • Aumentar el acceso a la atención y los beneficios para nuestras tropas y veteranos. • Proporcionar una solución para los DREAMers. • Continuar agilizando las operaciones fronterizas para aumentar el comercio transfronterizo • Aumentar la transparencia del gobierno Nancy Pelosi, Presidenta de la Cámara de Representantes, dirigió la tradicional ceremonia de toma de protesta de hoy en la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos. El Congresista Cuellar recitó el juramento que todos los miembros del Congreso han jurado desde 1884: "Juro solemnemente que apoyaré y defenderé la Constitución de los Estados Unidos contra todos los enemigos, extranjeros y nacionales, que mantendré la fe y la lealtad verdaderas a ella; que tomo esta obligación libremente, sin ninguna reserva mental o con el propósito de evasión, y que cumpliré fielmente los deberes del oficio en el que estoy a punto de ingresar: lo juro." El Congresista Cuellar se encuentra junto a su esposa Imelda Cuellar y la Presidenta de la Cámara de Representantes Nancy Pelosi, para prestar el juramento oficial del cargo en el 116º Congreso que se convocó formalmente el jueves en Washington, D.C. De la izquierda: Presidenta de la Cámara de Representantes Nancy Pelosi, Imelda Cuellar, Congresista Henry Cuellar
01.02.2019	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement in response to President Trump issuing an executive order on Friday, freezing federal workers’ pay in 2019: “Refusing across-the-board pay raises for our federal employees is shortsighted, rash, and unjustified. Instead of providing our federal workers with raises they deserve, President Trump chooses to focus on allocating billions towards a senseless, ineffective border wall. “I support the hundreds of thousands of government workers who, due to the President’s decisions, will be working without pay as the new year approaches. These are hard working men and women, who rely on steady paychecks and should be properly compensated. “As we enter a new Congress, I urge the President to reopen the government, sign full-year appropriations, and take control of the national debt, instead of robbing federal employees of the raises they deserve.”
12.19.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the Department of Education (ED) is providing resources to Brightwood College students affected by the December 7th closing of the Education Corporation of America (ECA) in Laredo, TX. This announcement comes as a result of ECA’s abrupt closure of dozens of institutions nationwide, affecting thousands of students. Students are encouraged to apply for a closed school loan discharge, if they meet certain criteria. Congressman Cuellar stated, “It is our responsibility to ensure that every student, regardless of their economic background, is prepared to compete in a 21st-century, competitive job market. These students, who have been unfairly deprived of their educational investment, must be justly compensated. “I would like to thank Laredo College and TAMIU for their efforts in helping students continue to pursue a higher education. It is my hope that the Department of Education is able to provide them with the federal assistance that they so greatly deserve.” Students Eligible to Apply Students may be eligible for a closed school loan discharge based on their attendance period at Brightwood College. Student loan borrowers (and parents who took out PLUS loans on behalf of students) may be eligible for a 100-percent discharge of their federal student loans borrowed to attend the school under either of the following circumstances: Brightwood closed while the student was enrolled, and they did not complete their program because of the closure. If a student was on an approved leave of absence, they are considered to have been enrolled at the school; OR The student withdrew from all classes 120 days or less prior to the school closing. This requires active enrollment at Brightwood on or after August 9, 2018. Transfer of Course Credits Laredo College and Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) are offering their services to students who are interested in seeing if they are eligible for transfer. Students may contact the following offices for assistance: Laredo College Office of Enrollment and Student Services Fort McIntosh Campus Lerma Peña Building, Room 116 West End Washington Street Laredo, Texas 78040 Telephone: (956) 721-5109 South Campus Billy Hall Student Center, Room 113 5000 South Zapata Highway Laredo, Texas 78046 Telephone: (956) 794-4109 Texas A&M International University Office of Admissions Zaffirini Success Center, Suite 129 5201 University Boulevard Laredo, Texas 78041 Telephone: (956) 326-2200 Additional resources include various state agencies working in coordination with the Department of Education to transfer student course credits to other local institutions. The following Texas offices are participating: Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation 920 Colorado Street Austin, TX 78701 Phone: 512-463-6599 Website: www.tdlr.texas.gov Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board 1200 East Anderson Lane Austin, TX 78752 Phone: 512-427-6101 Website: www.thecb.state.tx.us Texas Work Force Commission 101 East 15th Street Austin, TX 78778 Phone: 512-936-3100 Website: www.twc.texas.gov The ED is working on an institution-by-institution basis to facilitate these transfers of course credits. For more information on services offered by the ED to address the ECA school closings, visit www.StudentAid.gov/eca. Students can find resources to help transfer credits to another school, obtain their academic records, explore Pell grant eligibility, and more.
12.18.2018	As a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) understands the importance of keeping the federal government funded. Congress has passed five of twelve spending bills in FY19, which leaves seven bills, which are set to expire at midnight on December 21. These bills include funding for the Department of Homeland Security, the federal agency at the center of the debate regarding President Trump’s border wall. Last January, Congressman Cuellar spoke with President Trump during a bipartisan meeting at the White House, explaining why a border wall is not an effective policy and enumerating a variety of security measures that would help strengthen operations at the U.S.-Mexico border. A year later, he still stands behind his remarks. He stated the following: “Last week, President Trump boasted that he would be ‘proud’ to shut down the government. Let me be clear: We cannot afford a senseless government shutdown. The last major government shutdown in 2013 cost the American economy 120,000 jobs and $24 billion. A shutdown is a wasteful disservice to the American taxpayer, who has a right to expect the government to operate uninterrupted and at full capacity. “As I have indicated to President Trump in the past, we need effective border security. As a lifelong border resident, I speak with constituents, landowners, and law enforcement professionals regularly, and they agree that a massively expensive barrier is nothing more than a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century challenge. Congress should allocate funding towards technology, equipment, border personnel, ports of entry infrastructure, as well as security and economic development in Central America and Southern Mexico, in order to secure our border in a sensible, cost-efficient manner. “We need to focus on solutions that work. I strongly encourage the President to reconsider funding for the wall, and keep the government open.” Watch Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) discuss alternatives to constructing a border wall with President Trump during a bipartisan meeting at the White House on January 9, 2018 above. Source: NowThis News
12.14.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $84,000 in federal funding for Webb County to purchase a new public shuttle bus from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). This new addition to the County’s bus fleet will improve transit operations in rural areas, increasing public transportation for disabled and elderly individuals in Webb County. Funds for this grant program were provided through the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT). Increasing access to unrestricted public transportation for commuters in the 28th District of Texas is a top priority for Congressman Cuellar. Presently, there are six bus routes which cover most of the rural areas of Webb County. The new shuttle bus will increase public transit access for rural residents who lack sufficient transportation options, including low-income and senior citizens. “Residents in Webb County and in rural areas across the country deserve the same access to public transportation afforded to urban areas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This new shuttle bus will provide an additional mode of transportation, making bus travel in Laredo safer and more accessible for citizens and visitors alike. I would like to recognize the Federal Transit Administration, the Texas Department of Transportation, and Webb County for focusing on the needs of this community. I additionally thank Webb County Judge Tijerina and County Commissioners for their efforts in securing this much needed resource.”
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), along with Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Peter Welch (VT-AL), and Terri Sewell (AL-07), Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18), Dan Kildee (MI-05), and Pete Aguilar (CA-31), was named Chief Deputy Whip by House Majority Whip-Elect James E. Clyburn for the 116th Congress. The Congressman released the following statement regarding this new position: “I would like to thank House Majority Whip-Elect Clyburn for providing me with this great leadership opportunity. It is a great honor to be named Chief Deputy Whip for this upcoming Congress, where I promise to work in a bipartisan manner and serve the American people. “As we enter the majority, it is critical that we continue to reach across the aisle at finding common-sense legislative solutions to the issues we face. I look forward to working with the Whip team and my fellow colleagues to perform this role with the utmost dignity and dedication.” ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has continually called for U.S. Troops on the border to be sent home for the holidays and to not extend their mission past the expiration date. Today, the Congressman released the following statement in response to reports showing that hundreds of troops will be sent home this week: “I am encouraged to see that many of the U.S. active-duty personnel currently deployed to the U.S.-Mexico border are returning home this week, especially in time for the holidays. I supported ending the mission of our troops on the border before the original December 15th deadline, and request the remaining active-duty troops be returned to their home bases to celebrate the holidays with their loved ones. Ending this mission on the border sends a clear message to the American people that our dedicated U.S. Customs and Border Protection law enforcement personnel are fully capable of securing our border.” ###
12.13.2018	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Filemon Vela (TX-34) today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Office of Head Start has awarded a continuation grant of $27,236,014 to Hidalgo County Head Start. This grant will help implement comprehensive child development programs that prepare young students, ages three to four, from low-income families for pre-school. The grant will allow Hidalgo County Head Start to continue serving children and families in South Texas. Children participating in this program are given access to educational, nutritional, health, social, and special services. For 35 years, the program has sought to promote school readiness and developmental achievement. “Head Start is a tremendously successful program, having served thousands of children and families in my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. “For years, it has contributed a great deal to the community by providing students with an array of comprehensive services and opportunities to shape a path for success. These funds are not only an investment in our children’s education, but an investment in their future.” “This is great news – we must always keep the door of opportunity open for every child in the 15th District of Texas,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “The Head Start program empowers students to expand their horizons and continues to prepare children for success both in school and beyond. In Congress, I will work to ensure that federal dollars are never limited when it comes to the academic success of our children.” “The Head Start program strengthens families and our community by providing children with quality education early in their development,” said Congressman Vela. “This funding is a critical investment in the education of our future leaders and will help ensure that South Texas children and their families have the tools they need to succeed.” Teresa Flores, Executive Director of the Hidalgo County Head Start Program, expressed her enthusiasm about the federal funding for the program: “The grant is a continuation application to fund the program for our 3,690 served in 185 classrooms throughout the county for fiscal year 2019. This is project is a five year grant beginning 7/01/2016 and ending on 6/30/2021,” Executive Director Flores said. “We are grateful to Congressman Gonzalez for his support in the continued funding of our program to provide comprehensive Head Start services to the neediest families in our county. It will also continue to fund the 752 employees, 33% who are former parents, and who serve the program in the areas of education, family services, health services, staff development, human resources, mental health services, field operations, finance, special services, transition, nutrition and transportation. Our program also developed and sustains successful partnerships with ten school districts to prepare children for kindergarten and beyond. The districts include: Pharr San Juan Alamo, McAllen, Weslaco, Mission, La Joya, Edinburg, Monte Alto, Hidalgo, Mercedes, and Edcouch. We will also continue to assist staff in securing higher education degrees for early education and provide financial resources and release time to fill in our classroom teaching vacancies.”
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives by voting for H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, also known as the Farm Bill. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 369-47, will extend all agriculture and nutrition programs for the next five years, that includes support for farmers and ranchers in Texas and across the country. This legislation passed the U.S. Senate, and now moves to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “This bill is a direct investment for our farmers and cattle ranchers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It will also ensure that Americans in rural and urban areas across the country continue to be provided with the safest and most abundant food supply in the world. Specifically, this legislation will modernize our agriculture support systems, save American taxpayer dollars, and offer our farmers and ranchers certainty on how American agriculture policy will be regulated.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank House Agriculture Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11), Ranking Member Collin Peterson (MN-7), and my fellow colleagues for working across the aisle to get this crucial bill passed.” Nutrition & Hunger This bill preserves crucial benefits for millions of Texans and their families, such as: · Reauthorizes SNAP for five years; · Expands funding for food banks with $206 million for The Emergency Food Assistance; Program (TEFAP), which helps supplement the diets of low-income Americans, including the elderly; · Makes donating fluid milk for food banks and other feeding programs easier; and · Provides $238 million for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program, which works to improve the health of low-income elderly persons by supplementing their diets with nutritious foods. Support for Farmers & Ranchers · Maintains the core provisions of the federal crop insurance program, which is permanently authorized; · Increases farm loan authorization level from $4.23 billion to $10 billion, including a 50 percent set-aside for direct operating loans for beginning farmers and ranchers; · Combines and establishes mandatory funding for important programs to promote U.S. agricultural exports; · Improves the Agriculture Risk Coverage and Price Loss Coverage programs and offers producers choices; · Allows farmers to update their program yields, boosting their eligibility to receive support; · Increases marketing loan rates to improve farmers’ cash flow and access to credit when prices are low during harvest time; · Updates limits on Farm Service Agency (FSA) farm loans to keep pace with increasing costs and land values; and · Expands access to FSA farm loans for veteran and beginning farmers. Partnerships with HSIs · Reauthorizes National Institute of Food and Agriculture education grants programs for Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), which prepare underrepresented students for careers related to the food, agricultural, and natural resource systems. HSIs in South Texas include: Laredo College, South Texas College, Texas A&M International University, University of Texas at San Antonio, and the University of the Incarnate Word. Conservation · The Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP), which received $1.75 billion for FY19, would receive $2.03 billion by FY23. The program helps agricultural producers confront challenges while conserving natural resources like soil, water and air. Through EQIP, the National Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) provides agricultural producers with financial resources and one-on-one help to plan and implement improvements and conservation practices. Using these practices can lead to cleaner water and air, healthier soil and better wildlife habitat, all while improving agricultural operations for farmers in the 28th District; · Increases the amount of land allowed under the Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers not to produce crops on environmentally sensitive land; and · $450 million annually for the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program, which provides financial and technical assistance to help restore, protect, and enhance agricultural lands and wetlands. Rural Development & Transparency This legislation includes provisions that helps struggling rural hospitals to gain better financial footing, reauthorizes critical rural water and sewer infrastructure programs, and boosts technical assistant for rural development programs in rural communities. It additionally increases USDA transparency. Provisions include: · $350 million annually for new broadband infrastructure. New projects would have to be in areas where at least 90 percent of households are unserved by broadband, instead of 15 percent under current law; · $82 million for Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grants, which help rural communities use the unique capabilities of telecommunications to connect to each other and the world; · $65 million for Rural Business Development Grants; · $50 million for Emergency Community Water Assistance Grants; · Requires USDA to establish a rural health liaison; and · Improves transparency through annual reports of USDA lending activity. Animal & Plant Health · $120 million from FY19 through FY22, and $30 million annually after that, for animal disease management programs, including research on cattle fever ticks; · Beginning in FY23, $18 million for a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program; · Funding would also be allocated for a new National Animal Vaccine and Veterinary Countermeasures Bank and for the National Animal Health Laboratory Network; · Provides $25 million annually for a new Citrus Trust Fund for research into citrus diseases and pests; and · $15 million annually for five years for USDA to establish a National Plant Diagnostic Network to monitor threats to plant health. For more information about the Farm Bill’s provisions, please click here. ###
12.05.2018	LAREDO, TEXAS -- Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the removal of barbed wire on the border in Laredo, Texas. “I just spoke to Director of the Joint Task Force-West Manny Padilla, who informed me that they will be removing barbed wire in Laredo that was prepared by the troops in recent months as an attempt to impede the oncoming migrant caravan at the border. This is a welcomed change, and I am encouraged to see that a resolution has been agreed upon. I do understand that if circumstances change in the future, we will need to look for ways in which we can reinforce our border security. “I would like to thank Manny Padilla, local Border Patrol Chief Felix Chavez, along with CBP Director David Higgerson, for their continued work on this issue.” ###
12.05.2018	LAREDO, TEXAS -- Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración con respecto a la remoción del alambre de púas en la frontera en Laredo, Texas: "Acabo de hablar con el Director de la Fuerza de Tarea Conjunta-West Manny Padilla, quien me informó que retirarán el alambre de púas en Laredo, que fue preparado por las tropas en los últimos meses como un intento de impedir la caravana de inmigrantes que se aproxima a la frontera. Este es un cambio bien recibido, y me alienta ver que se haya acordado una resolución. Entiendo que si las circunstancias cambian en el futuro, tendremos que buscar formas en las que podamos reforzar nuestra seguridad fronteriza. "Me gustaría agradecer a Manny Padilla, al Jefe de la Patrulla Fronteriza local Félix Chávez, junto con el Director de Aduanas y Proteccion Fronteriza David Higgerson, por su trabajo continuo en este tema." ###
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush: “Today, we remember President George H.W. Bush and the incredible legacy that he leaves behind. His unyielding leadership, commitment and servitude to his family and to our country will be matched by none. “George H.W. Bush was a loving husband and father, a WWII veteran and consummate public servant, leading our country as the 41st President. He also served in many other capacities such as Vice President, Congressman from Texas, Director of the CIA and Ambassador to the UN. His commitment to public service and to our nation leave behind an everlasting legacy that inspires us and generations to come. My heartfelt condolences go to the Bush family during this difficult time. “
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the inauguration of Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador: “It was an honor for me to have attended the inauguration of Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. I am looking forward to working with President Lopez Obrador and his administration on a variety of matters important to both countries. Mexico is one of our most important allies and we deeply value our relationship. For this reason, we must work with the President’s administration on issues that are essential to both countries including trade, security, drug trafficking, crime, legal immigration, and border infrastructure. I hope the new administration will continue addressing these issues in collaboration with the U.S. as it has in the past. “During my visit to Mexico City, I had the opportunity of meeting with President Lopez Obrador’s new cabinet, and high-level officials, including senators, congressman and the President of the House of Representatives Mario Delgado to discuss these collaborative efforts and we are looking forward to continue working closely with the Mexican government during this transition. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress towards this goal by introducing bipartisan legislation that supports this partnership, such as the US-Mexico Economic Partnership Act I introduced with Representative McCaul, which would foster educational and economic development opportunities with our friends from the southern border. “I also hope that we continue working with the new president on security initiatives that promote the safety and well-being of our citizens in border towns and throughout our communities. Bilateral initiatives by Mexico and the U.S. are essential tools that enable both nations to address issues such as organized crime and drug trafficking. If we want to ensure both sides continue to thrive economically, we must work together.” ###
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON- Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración con respecto a la toma de protesta del Presidente de México Andrés Manuel López Obrador: “Fue un honor para mí haber asistido a la toma de protesta del Presidente de México Andrés Manuel López Obrador. Espero continuar trabajar con el Presidente López Obrador y su administración en una variedad de asuntos importantes para ambos países. México es uno de nuestros aliados más importantes y valoramos profundamente nuestra relación. Por este motivo, debemos trabajar con la administración del Presidente en temas que son esenciales para ambos países, incluidos el comercio, la seguridad, el tráfico de drogas, el crimen, la inmigración legal y la infraestructura fronteriza. Espero que la nueva administración continúe abordando estos problemas en colaboración con los Estados Unidos como lo ha hecho en el pasado. "Durante mi visita a la Ciudad de México, tuve la oportunidad de reunirme con el nuevo gabinete del Presidente López Obrador, y funcionarios de alto nivel, incluyendo senadores, congresistas y el Presidente de la Cámara de Representantes de México Mario Delgado, para discutir estos esfuerzos de colaboración y esperamos seguir trabajando estrechamente con el gobierno mexicano durante esta transición. Continuaré trabajando con mis colegas en el Congreso para lograr este objetivo mediante la introducción de una legislación bipartidista que respalde esta asociación, como la Ley de Asociación Económica México-EE. UU. Que introduje con el Representante McCaul, que fomentaría las oportunidades de desarrollo educativo y económico con nuestros amigos del sur. frontera. “También espero que sigamos trabajando con el nuevo presidente en iniciativas de seguridad que promuevan la seguridad y el bienestar de nuestros ciudadanos en las ciudades fronterizas y en todas nuestras comunidades. Las iniciativas bilaterales de México y los Estados Unidos son herramientas esenciales que permiten a ambas naciones abordar temas como el crimen organizado y el narcotráfico. Si queremos asegurarnos de que ambas partes continúen prosperando económicamente, debemos continuar trabajando juntos." ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) released the following statement after a conversation with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer regarding border wall funding: “We want to thank Leader Schumer for discussing our real concerns with providing unnecessary wall funding to the President. We are pleased to agree that we should be focused on real border security, and not the President’s campaign obsession with a concrete wall. We look forward to continuing to work with Leader Chuck Schumer, Leader Nancy Pelosi, and the leadership of the Appropriations Committee to ensure the President’s $5 billion wall does not become a reality.” ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON— Yesterday, U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced the successful passage of H.R. 1210, a bill he authored to rename the post office located 122 W. Goodwin Street, Pleasanton, Texas, as the "Pleasanton Veterans Post Office.” The bill passed the House and will now move to the Senate. “Across my district, there are many examples of fine men and women who have honorably served our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “A great example would be Judge Robert “Bob” L. Hurley of Pleasanton, Texas, who served in the United States Air Force as a medic and eventually rose to the rank of Staff Sergeant. He was a non-commissioned officer of the US Air Force Academy Cadet Medical Clinic – Medical Records and Appointments Department. He would go on to become President of two different companies and serve his hometown as a councilmember and as mayor, and was eventually elected Atascosa County Judge, where he has served since 2014. We owe our freedom to veterans like Judge Hurley, which is why I am recognizing him with the dedication of this post office.” Congressman Cuellar also thanked local veteran caregivers for their service to those returning home from duty. “I would also like to take a moment to thank the veterans’ organizations throughout my district for their tireless work in providing the care our veterans need.” Read a copy of the bill text here. ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON— Yesterday, U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced the successful passage of H.R. 1211, a bill he authored to rename the post office located 400 N. Main Street, Encinal, Texas, as the "Encinal Veterans Post Office.” The bill passed the House and will now move to the Senate. Congressman Cuellar stressed the importance of naming this post office in honor of all veterans by stating, “Across my district, there are many examples of fine men and women who have honorably served our country. A great example would be Judge Frank Weikel of Encinal, Texas, who enlisted in the United States Navy after high school and served for eight years. After his discharge from the Navy he worked at several companies before serving on the Encinal City Council and as Mayor Pro Tempore. Eventually, he would be elected Justice of the Peace for Precinct 2 in La Salle County. We owe our freedom to veterans like Judge Weikel, which is why I am recognizing him with the dedication of this post office.” The Congressman also thanked local veteran caregivers for their service to those returning home from duty. “I would also like to take a moment to thank the veterans’ organizations throughout my district for their tireless work in providing the care our veterans need.” Read a copy of the bill text here. ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and ten other Democratic members sent a letter expressing their opposition to Leader Schumer’s recent comments establishing Senate Democrats’ starting negotiating position of $1.6 billion for a border wall. In the letter, the members made clear that the Democrats should not accept any funding in the FY 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. The other ten members include Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Mark Takano (CA-41), Al Green (TX-09), Lou Correa (CA-46), Raul Grijalva (AZ-07), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Norma Torres (CA-35), and Member-Elect Veronica Escobar (TX-16). Congressman Cuellar said, “As a lifelong border resident, I understand firsthand the implications that a border wall would have on our communities. That is why I oppose all allocation of funds towards a border wall, which is a 14th-century solution to a 21st-century problem. Instead of enacting a concrete wall, we should allocate funding towards technology, equipment, border personnel, and economic development in Central America. I strongly encourage Leader Schumer to reconsider and clarify that Democrats should accept no funding for a wall. I thank my fellow colleagues for joining me in spearheading this important issue, making it clear that we will not negotiate when it comes to a border wall.” “We need all hands on deck to oppose frivolous border wall spending proposals – that includes Leader Schumer,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “Recently, I submitted official correspondence to U.S. Customs and Border Protection in response to the agency’s public comment period. The report articulated how a border wall on the U.S.-Mexico Border would: further inflame U.S.-Mexico relations; fail to deter illegal immigration; lead to economic and agriculture losses; endanger public lands and wildlife; create flood hazards; encroach on private property rights; and infringe on the property rights of Native Americans.” See attached copy of the letter here. ###
11.29.2018	WASHINGTON— Hoy, los Congresistas Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) y otros diez miembros demócratas enviaron una carta en la que expresaban su oposición a los recientes comentarios del líder Schumer sobre la posición de negociación inicial de los demócratas del Senado de $1.6 mil millones para un muro fronterizo. En la carta, los miembros dejaron en claro que los demócratas no deberían aceptar ningún financiamiento en el proyecto de ley de Asignaciones de Seguridad Nacional del año fiscal 2019. Los otros diez miembros incluyen a Joaquín Castro (TX-20), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Mark Takano (CA-41), Al Green (TX-09), Lou Correa (CA-46), Raúl Grijalva (AZ- 07), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Norma Torres (CA-35) y la miembro electa Veronica Escobar (TX-16). El Congresista Cuellar dijo: “Como residente de la frontera, entiendo de primera mano las implicaciones que un muro fronterizo tendría en nuestras comunidades. Por eso me opongo a toda asignación de fondos hacia un muro fronterizo, el cual es una solución del siglo XIV a un problema del siglo XXI. En lugar de promulgar un muro de concreto, deberíamos asignar fondos para tecnología, equipos, personal de fronteras y desarrollo económico en América Central. Incito al Líder Schumer a que reconsidere y que deje en claro que los demócratas no deben aceptar fondos para un muro. Agradezco a mis por trabajar conmigo en dirigir este importante tema, dejando en claro que no vamos a negociar cuando se trata de un muro fronterizo." "Necesitamos todas las manos en la cubierta para oponernos a las frívolas propuestas de gastos del muro fronterizo- incluyendo al Líder Schumer, " dijo el Congresista González. “Recientemente, presenté correspondencia oficial a la Oficina de Aduanas y Protección Fronteriza de los Estados Unidos en respuesta al período de comentarios públicos de la agencia. El informe articuló cómo un muro fronterizo en la frontera de EE. UU. y México podría: dañar aún más las relaciones entre EE. UU.-México; no disuadir a la inmigración ilegal; conducir a pérdidas económicas y agrícolas; poner en peligro las tierras públicas y la vida silvestre; crear peligros de inundación; invadir los derechos de propiedad privada; e infringir los derechos de propiedad de los nativos americanos." Ver copia adjunta de la carta aquí. ###
11.29.2018	"Queremos agradecer al líder Schumer por discutir nuestras preocupaciones en cuanto a proporcionar fondos innecesarios al presidente. Nos complace acordar que debemos centrarnos en la seguridad real de las fronteras, y no en la obsesión de la campaña del Presidente con un muro de concreto. Esperamos continuar trabajando con el Líder Chuck Schumer, la Líder Nancy Pelosi y el liderazgo del Comité de Asignaciones para asegurar que el muro de $5 mil millones de dólares del Presidente no se convierta en una realidad." ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the Mexican Presidency election results: “Congratulations to Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador on winning the election and becoming the next President of Mexico. Mexico is one of our most important allies and we value our relationship. I look forward to working with the new Mexican Administration on issues that are essential to both countries including NAFTA, security, immigration, and border infrastructure. Mexico should be seen as an ally and not as an enemy as some people see it. The Rio Grande/Rio Bravo River does not divide us, but rather unites us as two countries. This is a critical time for the U.S. and Mexico and I will continue to work to develop our binational cooperation.” ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON— Yesterday, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced the passage of H.R. 1567, the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act, in the House of Representatives. This bipartisan legislation will bolster professional development and economic growth in both countries, including in the border region in Texas, with a focus on the energy, health, entrepreneurship, and education sectors. The goal of the bill is to promote a bilingual workforce that can better serve both sides of the border and increase economic development in the region. Its co-sponsors include House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Elliot Engel (NY-16), along with Reps. David Cicilline (RI-1), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Brad Sherman (CA-30). It will next be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “The relationship between the United States and Mexico runs deep through commercial, cultural, and educational partnerships,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Mexico is the United States’ second-largest export market and third-largest trading partner, with an estimated $615 billion in two-way trade between the two countries in 2017. With this in mind, it is imperative that we strengthen these relations and foster economic growth for all partners involved.” According to the Institute of International Education, in the 2015-2016 academic year, more than 56,000 U.S. students studied in other countries in the Western Hemisphere, while more than 84,000 non-U.S. students from the region studied in the U.S., but only 5,000 of those United States students studied in Mexico and only 16,000 of those non-U.S. students were from Mexico. Increasing Bilateral Economic Integration Both countries have benefited from bilateral, mutually beneficial partnerships focused on advancing each country’s economic interests. Under the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act, the State Department would create a strategy to further support economic relations between the U.S. and Mexico through academic and professional programs to contribute to this goal. Expanding Professional and Educational Exchange Programs The State Department currently supports exchange programs with Mexico through grants from the 100,000 Strong in Americas initiative, which was founded in 2011. The program has provided more than 100 grants to 250 institutions in 25 countries. The measure will require the State Department to create a strategy that expands educational and professional exchange programs with Mexico through the initiative. Specifically, it will: 1. Encourage more academic exchange programs at the secondary, post-secondary, and post-graduate levels, especially with communities and through academic institutions in the border region; 2. Encourage academic institutions and businesses to collaborate to support entrepreneurs and joint business initiatives; 3. Promote energy infrastructure coordination through vocational-level education and internships, particularly in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas; and 4. Require the State Department to assess the feasibility of facilitating partnerships between universities and medical and nursing programs in both countries. Congressman Henry Cuellar said, “I introduced the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act so that we can continue to deepen our relationship with Mexico both through economic integration and educational programs. Increasing academic exchanges in the energy, business, education, and health sectors will increase economic prosperity in both nations and allow us to further capitalize on the strengths each country has to offer.” He continued, “I would like to thank Congressman McCaul for co-sponsoring this bipartisan piece of legislation. I also thank House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce and Ranking Member Elliot Engel for taking up this bill and advancing it through committee. I look forward to seeing the bill through to passage.” Congressman Michael McCaul said, “As the Chairman of the U.S.-Mexico Inter-Parliamentary Group, I have long advocated for enhancing and strengthening the close relationship with our southern neighbor. This legislation states our commitment to promoting the academic exchanges between our two countries in the fields of business, energy, and health care. I look forward to future opportunities to enhance our shared commitment to economic empowerment, and thank my friend and fellow Texan, Congressman Cuellar, for his leadership on this important issue.” Watch video of Congressman Cuellar speaking on H.R. 1567 here. Read text of the bill language here. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks on H.R. 1567 - the United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act on Tuesday in Washington. ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON— Ayer, los Congresistas Henry Cuellar (TX-28) y Michael McCaul (TX-10) anunciaron la aprobación de la Ley H.R. 1567, la Ley de Asociación Económica de Estados Unidos y México, en la Cámara de Representantes. Esta legislación bipartidista reforzará el desarrollo profesional y el crecimiento económico en ambos países, incluida la región fronteriza de Texas, con un enfoque en los sectores de energía, salud, iniciativa empresarial y educación. El objetivo del proyecto de ley es promover una fuerza laboral bilingüe que pueda servir mejor a ambos lados de la frontera y aumentar el desarrollo económico en la región. Sus copatrocinadores incluyen a Elliot Engel (NY-16), miembro del Comité de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara de Representantes, junto con los representantes David Cicilline (RI-1), Vicente González (TX-15) y Brad Sherman (CA-30). Este proyecto de ley será enviado al Senado de los Estados Unidos para consideración. La relación entre los Estados Unidos y México está fuertemente establecida través de asociaciones comerciales, culturales y educativas. México es uno de los tres principales socios comerciales de los Estados Unidos, con un estimado de $615 mil millones en comercio bilateral entre los dos países en el 2017. "La relación entre los Estados Unidos y México está establecida a través de asociaciones comerciales, culturales y educativas," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “México es el segundo mercado de exportación más grande de los Estados Unidos y el tercer socio comercial más grande, con un estimado de $615 mil millones en comercio bilateral entre los dos países en 2017. Teniendo esto en cuenta, es crucial que fortalezcamos estas relaciones y fomentemos el crecimiento económico de todos los socios involucrados." Según el Instituto de Educación Internacional, en el año académico 2015-2016, más de 56,000 estudiantes de EE. UU. estudiaron en otros países del hemisferio occidental, mientras que más de 84,000 estudiantes no estadounidenses de la región estudiaron en los EE. UU., pero solo 5,000 de los estudiantes estadounidenses estudiaron en México y solo 16,000 de esos estudiantes no estadounidenses fueron mexicanos. Incrementando la integración económica bilateral Ambos países se han beneficiado de alianzas bilaterales y mutuamente beneficas centradas en promover los intereses económicos de cada país. Bajo la Ley de Asociación Económica de México y Estados Unidos, el Departamento de Estado crearía una estrategia para apoyar aún más las relaciones económicas entre los Estados Unidos y México a través de programas académicos y profesionales para contribuir a este objetivo. Ampliando los programas de intercambio profesional y educativo El Departamento de Estado actualmente apoya programas de intercambio con México a través de subvenciones de la iniciativa 100,000 Strong in Americas, que fue fundada en 2011. El programa ha otorgado más de 100 subvenciones a 250 instituciones en 25 países. La medida requerirá que el Departamento de Estado cree una estrategia que amplíe los programas de intercambio educativo y profesional con México a través de la iniciativa. Específicamente, este programa: 1. Alentará más programas de intercambio académico en los niveles secundario, postsecundario y de posgrado, especialmente con las comunidades y mediante instituciones académicas en la región fronteriza; 2. Alentará a las instituciones académicas y las empresas a colaborar para apoyar a los empresarios y las iniciativas empresariales conjuntas; 3. Promoverá la coordinación de la infraestructura energética a través de la educación vocacional y las pasantías, particularmente en Eagle Ford Shale en el sur de Texas; y 4. Requerirá al Departamento de Estado que evalúe la viabilidad de facilitar las asociaciones entre las universidades y los programas médicos y de enfermería en ambos países. El Congresista Henry Cuellar dijo: “Presenté la Ley de Asociación Económica México-Estados Unidos para que podamos continuar profundizando nuestra relación con México a través de programas de integración económica y educación. El aumento de los intercambios académicos en los sectores de energía, negocios, educación y salud aumentará la prosperidad económica en ambas naciones y nos permitirá capitalizar aún más las cualidades que cada país tiene para ofrecer." Continuó: "Me gustaría agradecer al Congresista McCaul por copatrocinar esta legislación bipartidista. También agradezco al presidente de la Comisión de Asuntos Exteriores de la Cámara de Representantes, Ed Royce, y al Miembro de Mayor Rango Elliot Engel, por asumir este proyecto de ley y adoptarlo a través del comité. Espero ver que este proyecto de ley sea promulgado." El Congresista Michael McCaul dijo: “Como presidente del Grupo Interparlamentario de Estados Unidos y México, he abogado durante mucho tiempo por mejorar y fortalecer la relación con nuestro vecino del sur. Esta legislación establece nuestro compromiso con la promoción de los intercambios académicos entre nuestros dos países en los campos de negocios, energía y salud. Espero oportunidades futuras para mejorar nuestro compromiso con la oportunidad económica, y agradezco a mi amigo y colega de Texas, el Congresista Cuellar, por su liderazgo en este importante tema.” Vea el video del Congresista Cuellar hablando sobre el proyecto de ley H.R. 1567 aquí. Lea el texto del proyecto de ley aquí. El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla sobre el proyecto de ley H.R. 1567: la Ley de Asociación Económica México-Estados Unidos el martes en Washington. ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure $85 million in funding for child abuse prevention in a FY19 Appropriations bill containing the Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bills. Specifically, these funds will provide states with the means for improving their child protective service systems (CPS) in order to stop child abuse and expand access to crisis resources. In addition, he secured $1.5 million to develop and expand a national child abuse hotline which will provide youth seeking assistance with much needed improved access to crisis resources. This legislation passed both chambers and was signed into law by the President at the end of September. The bill includes funding for the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA), which provide small grants to states for maltreatment prevention and child protection services. The Child Abuse Prevention program, a statewide child abuse and neglect program, includes several requirements, such as: • Policies and procedures that address the needs of drug-exposed infants; • Procedures for referral, in order of risk level, of children not at imminent risk of harm to community or preventative services; • Training for CPS workers on their legal duties and parents’ rights; and • Provisions to refer children under age three who are involved in a case to early intervention services. This funding will assist states with meeting the expectation of the grants and also allow them to place a greater emphasis on the prevention-related activities to help strengthen and support families that are brought to the attention of CPS agencies across the country. The Children’s Bureau, a federal agency tasked with improving the lives of children and families, is also working with the country’s National Child Welfare Resource Centers to provide training and technical assistance to the states on best practices for CPS. Additionally, the Congressman helped secure $1.5 million, a $500,000 increase from FY18, for an extramural grant to develop and expand a child abuse hotline to determine best practices in appropriate communication, identity verification, privacy protection, and resource sharing with victims seeking assistance. “In FY2016, state and local child protection agencies carried out child protection responses involving 3.5 million children,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is why I worked to secure funding for both child abuse prevention services and an improved child abuse hotline. No child deserves to be abused, and it is essential that we do everything in our power as lawmakers to ensure that child abuse victims have all the resources they need to recover and be safe.” “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for helping include these provisions that will benefit abused children who need help.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks on the House Floor on the FY19 Appropriations bills in Washington. ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) ayudó a obtener $85 millones de dólares en fondos para la prevención del abuso infantil en un proyecto de ley de asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 que incluye los proyectos de ley de asignaciones de Defensa y Trabajo, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias relacionadas. Específicamente, estos fondos brindarán a los estados los medios para mejorar sus sistemas de Servicios de Protección Infantil (CPS por sus siglas en inglés) para detener el abuso infantil y ampliar el acceso a los recursos de la crisis. Además, aseguró $1.5 millones para desarrollar y expandir una línea telefónica nacional de abuso infantil que proporcionará a los jóvenes que buscan asistencia un acceso muy necesario a los recursos de la crisis. Esta legislación fue aprobada por ambas cámaras y fue aprobada por el Presidente a fines de septiembre. El proyecto de ley incluye fondos para la Ley de Prevención y Tratamiento del Abuso Infantil (CAPTA), que otorga pequeñas subvenciones a los estados para la prevención del maltrato y los servicios de protección infantil. El programa de Prevención de Abuso Infantil, un programa estatal de abuso y negligencia infantil, incluye varios requisitos, tales como: • Políticas y procedimientos que abordan las necesidades de los bebés expuestos a drogas; • Procedimientos para la derivación, en orden de nivel de riesgo, de niños que no están en riesgo inminente de daño a la comunidad o servicios preventivos; • Capacitación para los trabajadores de CPS sobre sus deberes legales y los derechos de los padres; y • Disposiciones para referir a los niños menores de tres años que están involucrados en un caso a servicios de intervención temprana. Esta financiación ayudará a los estados a cumplir con las expectativas de los subsidios y también les permitirá poner mayor énfasis en las actividades relacionadas con la prevención para ayudar a fortalecer y apoyar a las familias que atraen la atención de las agencias de CPS en todo el país. La Oficina de los Niños, una agencia federal encargada de mejorar las vidas de los niños y las familias, también está trabajando con los Centros nacionales de recursos de bienestar infantil del país para brindar capacitación y asistencia técnica a los estados sobre las mejores prácticas para CPS. Además, el Congresista ayudó a obtener $ 1.5 millones, un aumento de $ 500,000 con respecto al FY18, para una subvención extraordinaria para desarrollar y expandir una línea directa de abuso infantil para determinar las mejores prácticas de comunicación apropiada, verificación de identidad, protección de la privacidad y el intercambio de recursos con las víctimas que buscan asistencia. "En el año fiscal 2016, las agencias estatales y locales de protección de la infancia llevaron a cabo respuestas de protección infantil en las que participaron 3.5 millones de niños", dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Esta es la razón por la que trabajé para obtener fondos para los servicios de prevención del abuso infantil y una línea telefónica mejorada para prevenir el abuso infantil. Ningún niño merece ser maltratado, y es esencial que hagamos todo lo que esté a nuestro alcance como legisladores para garantizar que las víctimas de abuso infantil tengan todos los recursos que necesitan para recuperarse y estar seguros." "Quiero agradecer a mis colegas de Asignaciones y Trabajo, Salud, Servicios Humanos y Agencias Relacionadas. Al Presidente del Subcomité Tom Cole y la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudar a incluir estas disposiciones que beneficiarán a los niños maltratados que necesitan ayuda." El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en el piso de la Cámara de Representantes sobre las apropiaciones de "Minibús" en el año fiscal 19 en Washington. El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en la Cámara de Representantes sobre las asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 en Washington. ###
11.21.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included language addressing military pilot shortages in military bases across the nation and in Texas in a FY19 Appropriations package containing the Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bills. This language encourages the Department of Defense (DoD) to partner with higher education institutions, including Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and other Minority Serving Institutions to develop programs to better prepare students to meet eligibility requirements of pilot training. The legislation passed the House and Senate and was signed into law by the President in late September. Currently, in the Air Force alone, there is a shortage of over 1,800 pilots. This shortage is partly due to a lack of prepared candidates graduating from civilian colleges and universities. This lack of qualified aviator pool leaves the Services scrambling for recruits. Increasing partnerships with educational institutions will develop programs that will prepare more students to meet military eligibility requirements, increasing the aviator pipeline for all branches of the military and helping reduce the DoD’s critical pilot shortage. “In an increasingly complex world with diverse threats at home and abroad, military pilots are a vital component to our national security,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This funding will directly address the current pilot shortage, allowing the DoD to compete with the growing demand for our military capabilities. I want to make sure that our military has the necessary resources to augment and reinforce active duty forces as a front line of defense at home and abroad. By encouraging partnerships with DoD, Hispanic Serving Institutions will have what they need to prepare students to meet eligibility requirements of pilot training. Doing so will take steps to improve our military readiness and ensure our national security objectives are achieved.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators and Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Visclosky for helping me secure these funds. I would also thank my fellow Texas Representatives for their leadership on this issue.” Watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the House Floor here. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $68,996 in federal funding awarded to San Antonio College (SAC) through the Department of Education’s (ED) Cybersecurity Education Technological Upgrades for Community Colleges program. The award will create a two-year pilot program directly benefiting local students and improving cybersecurity education in Bexar County. The goal of the SAC Cybersecurity Technology Upgrades Project is to increase retention and success in gatekeeper cybersecurity courses amongst SAC’s local student population. This funding will enable Computer Information Systems (CIS) faculty to move from a traditional, lecture-based approach to teaching difficult and abstract concepts using simulated work environments and real-world, IT-related workplace scenarios. Specifically, the funding will establish a dedicated laboratory that will allow Information Assurance/Cybersecurity majors to participate in simulated scenarios that are modeled on real-world, workplace-based application of programming, networking and cybersecurity concepts. Program objectives include: · increasing the percentage of students who pass the gatekeeper courses by at least 5%; · maintaining existing retention rates at 100%; · raising those with less than full retention by at least 7%; · demonstrating collective improvement, particularly in the area of “soft” workplace skills, via employer evaluations conducted during mandatory student internships; and · collaborating with other institutions across the U.S. to expand curriculum resources and security information and toolkits. Congressman Cuellar continues to support these efforts to maintain the City of San Antonio’s competitiveness in a cybersecurity field that is rapidly growing more significant nationally. Earlier this year, he secured language in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill supporting efforts to improve the U.S.’s overall cybersecurity preparedness by directing additional technical resources to state and local governments. “For years, I have been dedicated to enhancing our nation’s overall cybersecurity,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Institutions across the country often lack the financial resources needed to create and maintain adequate cyber security units. This funding will increase collaborations with colleges and universities across the country, fueling cybersecurity efforts in South Texas. By increasing retention and success in gatekeeper cybersecurity courses amongst SAC’s local student population, students will be better prepared to handle a variety of cybersecurity threats and challenges. I would like to thank the San Antonio Delegation including Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Will Hurd (TX-23), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) for working with me on this issue.” San Antonio is recognized as one of the nation’s leading cities for cybersecurity activity. The 24th Air Force and 25th Air Force, along with NSA, comprise the largest federal cybersecurity presence outside the nation’s capital. These government operations are locally supported by a burgeoning cyber-technology private-sector, comprised of more than 200 cybersecurity companies. The resulting workforce demand is maintained regionally by several collegiate educational initiatives in the district. The SAC Cybersecurity Technology Upgrades Project serves as the latest addition to this critical educational network in Bexar County. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) anunció $68,996 de dólares en fondos federales otorgados a San Antonio College (SAC) a través del programa de mejoras tecnológicas de educación cibernética del Departamento de Educación (ED) para colegios comunitarios. El premio creará un programa piloto de dos años que beneficiará directamente a los estudiantes locales y mejorará la educación en seguridad cibernética en el condado de Bexar. El objetivo del Proyecto de Mejoras de la Tecnología de Seguridad Cibernética de SAC es aumentar la retención y el éxito en los cursos de seguridad cibernética de guardián entre la población estudiantil local de SAC. Esta financiación permitirá a los profesores de Sistemas de información computacional (CIS) pasar de un enfoque tradicional basado en conferencias a la enseñanza de conceptos abstractos y difíciles utilizando entornos de trabajo simulados y escenarios del lugar de trabajo relacionados con TI en el mundo real. Específicamente, la financiación establecerá un laboratorio que permitirá a los especialistas en Aseguramiento de Información / Ciberseguridad participar en escenarios simulados que se basan en la aplicación de conceptos de programación, redes y ciberseguridad basados en el mundo real. Los objetivos del programa incluyen: • aumentar el porcentaje de estudiantes que pasan los cursos de guardián en al menos un 5%; • mantener las tasas de retención existentes al 100%; • aumentar aquellos con menos de la retención total en al menos un 7%; • demostrando una mejora colectiva, particularmente en el área de las habilidades "blandas" en el lugar de trabajo, a través de evaluaciones del empleador realizadas durante pasantías estudiantiles obligatorias; y • colaborar con otras instituciones en los EE. UU. Para ampliar los recursos curriculares y la información de seguridad y las herramientas. El Congresista Cuellar continúa apoyando estos esfuerzos para mantener la competitividad de la Ciudad de San Antonio en un campo de ciberseguridad que está creciendo rápidamente a nivel nacional. A principios de este año, aseguró lenguaje legislativo en el proyecto de ley de Asignaciones de Seguridad Nacional de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos para el año fiscal 2019 que respalda los esfuerzos para mejorar la preparación general de seguridad cibernética de los Estados Unidos dirigiendo recursos técnicos adicionales a los gobiernos estatales y locales. "Durante años, me he dedicado a mejorar la ciberseguridad general de nuestra nación," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Las instituciones en todo el país a menudo carecen de los recursos financieros necesarios para crear y mantener unidades adecuadas de seguridad cibernética. Esta financiación aumentará las colaboraciones con colegios y universidades en todo el país, lo que alimentará los esfuerzos de seguridad cibernética en el sur de Texas. Al aumentar la retención y el éxito en los cursos de ciberseguridad entre la población estudiantil local de SAC, los estudiantes estarán mejor preparados para manejar una variedad de amenazas y desafíos de ciberseguridad. Me gustaría agradecer a la Delegación de San Antonio, incluyendo a Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joaquín Castro (TX-20), Will Hurd (TX-23) y Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) por trabajar conmigo en este tema. ” San Antonio es reconocida como una de las ciudades más importantes del país para la actividad de ciberseguridad. La 24ª Fuerza Aérea y la 25ª Fuerza Aérea, junto con la NSA, constituyen la mayor presencia federal de ciberseguridad fuera de la capital de la nación. Estas operaciones gubernamentales están respaldadas localmente por un creciente sector privado de tecnología cibernética, compuesto por más de 200 empresas de ciberseguridad. La demanda laboral resultante se mantiene a nivel regional por varias iniciativas educativas universitarias en el distrito. El Proyecto de actualizaciones de tecnología de seguridad cibernética de SAC sirve como la última incorporación a esta red educativa crítica en el condado de Bexar. ###
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement, encouraging U.S. Troops on the border to be sent home for the holidays and to not extend their mission past the expiration date, December 15th, 2018: “I fully expect and encourage the current mission of our U.S. Troops on the border to end no later than December 15th, and would discourage any consideration to extend the operation past the intended expiration date. Furthermore, I support sending many of these soldiers home early to continue their regular Readiness training cycle. This will allow them to spend the holidays with their families, increase morale, and prepare for their war-time mission.” ###
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración, alentando que las tropas estadounidenses en la frontera sean enviadas de vuelta a sus hogares para las vacaciones y no extiendan su misión después de la fecha de vencimiento, 15 de diciembre de 2018: “Espero y apoyo absolutamente a que la misión actual de nuestras tropas estadounidenses en la frontera finalice a más tardar el 15 de diciembre, y desaliento cualquier consideración para extender la operación más allá de la fecha de vencimiento prevista. Además, apoyo enviar a muchos de estos soldados a casa antes de tal fecha para continuar su ciclo regular de entrenamiento de preparación. Esto les permitirá pasar las vacaciones con sus familias, aumentar la moral y prepararse para su misión de guerra ." ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Filemon Vela (TX-34) announced over $88.4 million in federal awards for South Texas low-income students and Hispanic education. This funding comes from the Department of Education’s Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Program (GEAR UP). The awards will be allocated to the Region One Education Service Center (ESC) and Vanguard Academy Charter School to fund three educational programs over a seven-year period. Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Program GEAR UP is designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. With the awards announced today, South Texas students are continuing to see the direct benefits of the Congressman’s efforts. Specifically, the program provides multi-year grants to enable and maintain services at high-poverty middle and high schools. The awards also provide college scholarships to low-income students and fund support services for students, which include tutoring, mentoring, dual enrollment classes and college tours. It also increases students’ and parents’ knowledge and skills in fields of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM). GEAR UP Academic Program Details This funding will create and sustain three 7-year educational programs to assist South Texas students through their first year of college. Students who are at-risk, low-income, English Learners (EL) with the lowest academic achievement levels or learning disabilities will be targeted for aid. College Ready, Career Set $31,780,000 will go to ESC for a similar program called “College Ready, Career Set.” This program will aim to assist 5,675 students beginning at the 7th grade. It will also seek to implement a collegiate focused academic atmosphere enabling low-income, minority students or children with disabilities to attend college and start a successful career. · $800 per student/year; · 98% of target population is Hispanic, 55% live in poverty, and nearly 70% do not speak English at home; and · Will be implemented in 26 middle schools and 17 high schools in 17 school districts. College Now – Career Connected! Additionally, ESC has been awarded $46,065,600 to initiate their “College Now – Career Connected!” program, which will target 8,226 7th grade students for assistance. Create Early College High School (ECHS) communities of highly-effective learners through the delivery of effective strategies that ensure ALL students are not only college ready but also graduate from college. · $800 per student/year; · 98% of target population is Hispanic, 55% live in poverty, and nearly 70% do not speak English at home; and · Will be implemented in 30 middle schools and 18 high schools within 12 school districts (1 rural). College SET – ARTs! Vanguard has been awarded $10,640,000 for its “College SET – ARTs!” program, which will serve 1,900 students starting between grades K-7. This program is designed to foster a college going environment in which low-income, minority students and those with disabilities can successfully transition from high school to college and eventually to a career. · $800 per student/ year; and · Will be implemented in 3 elementary schools, 3 middle schools, 1 high school. South Texas Educational Institutions The recipients of these federal awards are well-established educational institutions whose services benefit students across South Texas. This funding will have widespread impacts throughout the region due to the strong academic partnerships that ESC and Vanguard maintain with other institutions and organizations. Region One Education Service Center (ESC) The Region One ESC is part of a state-wide system of 20 regional education service centers created by the 59th Texas Legislature to assist school districts across the state. Located in South Texas on the U.S-Mexico border, Region One ESC serves 37 school districts and 10 charter school systems in the seven-county area of Cameron, Hidalgo, Jim Hogg, Starr, Webb, Willacy, and Zapata Counties. Vanguard Academy Charter School Vanguard Academy is a charter school system, designated as a Local Education Agency (LEA), located in the city of Pharr, Texas, along the U.S.-Mexico border. It includes four elementary schools and two middle/high schools. The institution’s purpose is to prepare students to be successful in their continuing education. Academic Partnerships ESC and Vanguard’s academic network and partnerships include The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, Texas Southmost College, Texas A&M International University, RGV LEAD, Texas Graduate Center, South Texas Literacy Coalition, STEM Center of South Texas, Mission Economic Development Corporation, Workforce Solutions, AgileMind, ACT Inc., Qannection, KRGV 5, Valley Technical Academy, Texas Instruments, Reybotics, SEEDS Training, National Council for Community and Education Partnerships (NCCEP), Successful Lifestyles, Princeton Review, SureScore, RGV Guardian, Vernier, EGI Youth Link, Sylvan and EGT Institute, Inc. Low-Income and Hispanic Student Educational Appropriations As a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar helped secured over $1.5 billion in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill which is designated to expand education programs for low-income and Hispanic student populations. These monies have provided funding for various initiatives including Federal TRiO Programs and Pell grants. Also included in the FY19 federal appropriations bill is $360 million, a $10 million increase from FY18, for GEAR UP allocations. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. We need to ensure that every student, regardless of their economic background, is prepared to compete in a 21st-century, competitive job market. These programs provide academic assistance to low-income and disadvantaged students, ensuring that they have the resources they need to succeed. I would like to thank Congressmen Gonzalez and Vela with their help on this issue. Together, we will continue to work to make South Texas stronger.” “Access to higher education starts long before the application process,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “More funding for low-income students represents a path to success for all students – no matter their circumstance. I thank Congressmen Cuellar and Vela for their collaboration to advocate for education opportunities of students across their respective districts. Congratulations to each school district and education program that has received funding and congratulations to the students who will benefit. I will continue to do my part to secure more federal funds for South and Central Texas.” “We need to do everything within our power to ensure that every student has access to the life-changing benefits of higher education despite barriers such as economic background,” Congressman Vela said. “South Texas students will benefit from these programs as they prepare for and enter into post-secondary education. I look forward to continuing to work alongside Congressmen Cuellar and Gonzalez to expand educational opportunities to students all across South Texas.” ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Hoy, los Congresistas Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente González (TX-15) y Filemon Vela (TX-34) anunciaron más de $88.4 millones de dólares en fondos federales para estudiantes de bajos ingresos en el sur de Texas y para promover la educación hispana. Estos fondos provienen del Programa de Concientización y Preparación para Programas de Pregrado (GEAR UP) del Departamento de Educación. Los fondos se asignarán al Centro de Servicios Educativos (ESC) de Region One y a la Escuela Autónoma Vanguard Academy para financiar tres programas educativos durante un período de siete años. Programa de Concientización y Preparación para Programas de Pregrado (GEAR UP) GEAR UP está diseñado para aumentar el número de estudiantes de bajos ingresos que están preparados para ingresar y tener éxito en la educación postsecundaria. Con los fondos anunciados hoy, los estudiantes del sur de Texas continúan viendo los beneficios directos de los esfuerzos del Congresista. Específicamente, el programa proporciona subvenciones plurianuales para habilitar y mantener los servicios en las escuelas medias y secundarias de alta pobreza. Los premios también brindan becas universitarias para estudiantes de bajos ingresos y fondos para servicios de apoyo para estudiantes, que incluyen, tutoría, clases de doble inscripción y visitas a universidades. También aumenta el conocimiento y las habilidades de los estudiantes y los padres en los campos de Ciencias, Tecnología, Ingeniería y Matemáticas (STEM). Detalles del programa académico GEAR UP Estos fondos crearán y mantendrán tres programas educativos de 7 años para ayudar a los estudiantes del sur de Texas durante su primer año de universidad. Los estudiantes que están en riesgo, son de bajos ingresos, aprendices de inglés (EL) con los niveles más bajos de rendimiento académico o discapacidades de aprendizaje serán los destinatarios de la ayuda. Preparado para la universidad, conjunto de carreras $ 31,780,000 irán a la ESC para un programa similar llamado "College Ready, Career Set". Este programa tendrá como objetivo ayudar a 5,675 estudiantes a partir del 7º grado. También buscará implementar una atmósfera académica enfocada en la universidad que permita a los estudiantes minoritarios de bajos ingresos o niños con discapacidades asistir a la universidad y comenzar una carrera exitosa. • $ 800 por estudiante / año; • El 98% de la población objetivo es hispana, el 55% vive en la pobreza y casi el 70% no habla inglés en el hogar; y • Se implementará en 26 escuelas secundarias y 17 escuelas preparatorias en 17 distritos escolares. College Now - ¡Carrera conectada! Además, a ESC se le han otorgado $ 46,065,600 para iniciar su programa "College Now - Career Connected!", que se dirigirá a 8,226 estudiantes de 7º grado para recibir asistencia. Cree comunidades de Early College High School (ECHS) de estudiantes altamente efectivos a través de estrategias efectivas que aseguren que TODOS los estudiantes no solo estén preparados para la universidad, sino que también se gradúen de la universidad. • $ 800 por estudiante / año; • El 98% de la población objetivo es hispana, el 55% vive en la pobreza y casi el 70% no habla inglés en el hogar; y • Se implementará en 30 escuelas secundarias y 18 escuelas preparatorias en 12 distritos escolares (1 rural). College SET - ¡ARTs! Vanguard ha recibido $ 10,640,000 para su programa "¡College SET - ARTs!", Que atenderá a 1,900 estudiantes desde los grados K-7. Este programa está diseñado para fomentar un entorno universitario en el que los estudiantes minoritarios y de bajos ingresos y aquellos con discapacidades puedan hacer una transición exitosa de la escuela secundaria a la universidad y, finalmente, a una carrera. • $ 800 por estudiante / año; y • Se implementará en 3 escuelas primarias, 3 escuelas secundarias, 1 escuela preparatoria. Instituciones educativas del sur de Texas Los beneficiarios de estos premios federales son instituciones educativas bien establecidas cuyos servicios benefician a estudiantes en todo el sur de Texas. Esta financiación tendrá impactos generalizados en toda la región debido a las sólidas asociaciones académicas que ESC y Vanguard mantienen con otras instituciones y organizaciones. Centro de Servicio Educativo Región Uno (ESC) El Region One ESC forma parte de un sistema estatal de 20 centros de servicios educativos regionales creado por la 59.ª Legislatura de Texas para ayudar a los distritos escolares en todo el estado. Ubicada en el sur de Texas, en la frontera de EE. UU. Y México, la Región Uno ESC sirve a 37 distritos escolares y 10 sistemas de escuelas autónomas en los siete condados de los condados de Cameron, Hidalgo, Jim Hogg, Starr, Webb, Willacy y Zapata. Vanguard Academy Charter School Vanguard Academy es un sistema de escuelas autónomas, designado como Agencia de Educación Local (LEA), ubicado en la ciudad de Pharr, Texas, a lo largo de la frontera de EE. UU. Y México. Incluye cuatro escuelas primarias y dos escuelas intermedias / secundarias. El propósito de la institución es preparar a los estudiantes para que tengan éxito en su educación continua. Asociaciones Académicas La red académica y las asociaciones de ESC y Vanguard incluyen la Universidad de Texas Valle del Río Grande, la Universidad Southmost de Texas, la Universidad Internacional A&M de Texas, RGV LEAD, el Centro de Graduados de Texas, la Coalición de Alfabetización del Sur de Texas, el Centro STEM del Sur de Texas, la Corporación de Desarrollo Económico de la Misión, Soluciones para la Fuerza Laboral , AgileMind, ACT Inc., Qannection, KRGV 5, Valley Technical Academy, Texas Instruments, Reybotics, SEEDS Training, Consejo Nacional para las Asociaciones Comunitarias y Educativas (NCCEP), estilos de vida exitosos, Princeton Review, SureScore, RGV Guardian, Vernier, EGI Youth Link, Sylvan y EGT Institute, Inc. Asignaciones educativas para estudiantes hispanos y de bajos ingresos Como miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos, el Congresista Cuellar ayudó a obtener más de $1.5 mil millones en el año fiscal 2019 de Trabajo, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE. UU. para expandir programas de educación hispana. Estos fondos han proporcionado fondos para varias iniciativas, incluidos los Programas Federales TRiO y las subvenciones Pell. También se incluye en el proyecto de ley de asignaciones federales para el año fiscal 2019 $360 millones, un aumento de $10 millones en comparación con el año fiscal 2018, para las asignaciones de GEAR UP. "Sé de primera mano el poder transformador de la educación", explicó el Congresista Cuellar. “Lo experimenté en mi propia vida. Debemos asegurarnos de que todos los estudiantes, independientemente de sus antecedentes económicos, estén preparados para competir en un mercado laboral competitivo del siglo XXI. Estos programas brindan asistencia académica a estudiantes de bajos ingresos, asegurando que tengan los recursos que necesitan para tener éxito. Me gustaría agradecer a los Congresistas González y Vela por su ayuda en este tema. Juntos, continuaremos trabajando para fortalecer al sur de Texas." "El acceso a la educación superior comienza mucho antes del proceso de solicitud", dijo el Congresista González. “Más fondos para estudiantes de bajos ingresos representa un camino hacia el éxito para todos los estudiantes, sin importar sus circunstancias. Agradezco a los congresistas Cuellar y Vela por su colaboración para abogar por las oportunidades educativas de los estudiantes en sus respectivos distritos. Felicitaciones a cada distrito escolar y programa educativo que ha recibido fondos y felicitaciones a los estudiantes que se beneficiarán. Continuaré haciendo mi parte para asegurar más fondos federales para el sur y el centro de Texas.” "Necesitamos hacer todo lo que esté a nuestro alcance para garantizar que todos los estudiantes tengan acceso a los beneficios de la educación superior que cambian la vida, a pesar de barreras como el entorno económico," dijo el Congresista Vela. “Los estudiantes del sur de Texas se beneficiarán de estos programas mientras se preparan para ingresar a la educación postsecundaria. Espero continuar trabajando junto con los Congresistas Cuellar y González para ampliar las oportunidades educativas para los estudiantes en todo el sur de Texas .” ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced over $500 million in funding for educational programs supporting migrant and farmworker students. With this funding, Texas educators will be able to continue to dismantle barriers to education for our migrant families. The funding was included in an appropriations package comprised of the FY19 Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies funding bills. The legislation passed both chambers and was signed by the President into law in late September. Education for Migrant Students Congressman Cuellar fought to secure $374.7 million towards the State Agency Program for Migrant Education. This program supports special educational and related services for children of migrant agricultural workers and fishermen. These services include supplementary academic education, remedial or compensatory instruction, English for limited English proficient students, testing, guidance counseling, and other activities to promote services for migrant children whose education is interrupted by frequent moves. These funds are critical to families who make their living in agriculture and whose children should not be penalized in any manner due to frequent relocations. High School Equivalency Program and the College Assistance Programs The Congressman also helped include $44.6 million dollars in funding towards the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP), special programs supporting migrant students. These programs make grants to colleges, universities, and non-profit organizations to support educational programs designated for students who are engaged in migrant and other seasonal farm work. HEP provides academic and support services to help students obtain a high school equivalency certificate and subsequently gain employment or admission to a postsecondary institution or training program. CAMP provides tutoring and counseling services to first-year, undergraduate migrant students and assists those students in obtaining student financial aid for their remaining undergraduate years. These programs will provide access and expand opportunities to higher education for South Texas migrant students who deserve the same opportunities as other children in the U.S. Job Training for Migrant Workers The National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) will also receive $88.9 million due to Congressman Cuellar’s efforts. The NFJP provides job training, employment assistance, and other supportive services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers and their dependents with the goal of helping farmworkers secure full-time employment. Farmworkers who depend primarily on jobs in agricultural labor and who have experienced unemployment and underemployment as a result will benefit greatly in their pursuit of stable employment due to this funding. “I understand the situation of students who are migrant workers or seasonal farmworkers because my own parents were migrant workers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Everyone deserves an equal chance to reap the benefits of higher education, even those students whose grades suffer because they are working in the fields. These federal funds are an investment in our younger generation and our future local workforce. I will continue to work to secure funding for programs that empower our community and open the doors of opportunities for those who are not familiar with collegiate life.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for helping include this funding that will help migrant workers and their families receive the means of obtaining a quality education.” Congressman Cuellar additionally secured: $1.49 billion for Impact Aid ($47 million increase from FY18); $124.4 million towards developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program ($1 million increase from FY18); and $11 million for the Promoting Postbaccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Program. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON— El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) anunció más de $500 millones de dólares en fondos para programas educativos que apoyan a estudiantes migrantes y trabajadores agrícolas. Con esta financiación, los educadores de Texas podrán continuar desmantelando las barreras a la educación para nuestras familias migrantes. La financiación se incluyó en un paquete de asignaciones que comprende los proyectos de Ley de Financiación para el año fiscal 2019 de Defensa y Trabajo, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas. La legislación fue aprobada por ambas cámaras y fue firmada por el Presidente a fines de septiembre. Educación para estudiantes migrantes El Congresista Cuellar luchó para asegurar $374.7 millones de dólares para el Programa de la Agencia Estatal para la Educación Migrante. Este programa apoya la educación especial y los servicios relacionados para los hijos de trabajadores agrícolas y pescadores migrantes. Estos servicios incluyen educación académica complementaria, instrucción de recuperación o compensatoria, inglés para estudiantes con dominio limitado del inglés, exámenes, orientación y otras actividades para promover servicios para niños migrantes cuya educación se ve interrumpida por mudanzas frecuentes. Estos fondos son fundamentales para las familias que se ganan la vida en la agricultura y cuyos hijos no deben ser penalizados de ninguna manera debido a las frecuentes mudanzas. Programa de equivalencia de escuela secundaria y programas de asistencia universitaria El Congresista también ayudó a incluir $44.6 millones de dólares en fondos para el Programa de Equivalencia de la Escuela Secundaria (HEP) y el Programa de Asistencia Universitaria para Migrantes (CAMP), programas especiales que apoyan a los estudiantes migrantes. Estos programas otorgan subvenciones a colegios universitarios, universidades y organizaciones sin fines de lucro para apoyar programas educativos designados para estudiantes que se dedican a migrantes y otros trabajos agrícolas de temporada. HEP proporciona servicios académicos y de apoyo para ayudar a los estudiantes a obtener un certificado de equivalencia de escuela secundaria y, posteriormente, obtener un empleo o admisión en una institución postsecundaria o programa de capacitación. CAMP proporciona tutoría y servicios de asesoramiento a estudiantes migrantes universitarios de primer año y ayuda a esos estudiantes a obtener ayuda financiera estudiantil para sus años restantes de licenciatura. Estos programas brindarán acceso y ampliarán las oportunidades de educación superior para los estudiantes migrantes del sur de Texas que merecen las mismas oportunidades que otros niños en los EE. UU. Capacitación laboral para trabajadores migrantes El Programa Nacional de Empleos para Trabajadores Agrícolas (NFJP) también recibirá $88.9 millones debido a los esfuerzos del Congresista Cuellar. El NFJP proporciona capacitación laboral, asistencia para el empleo y otros servicios de apoyo para los trabajadores agrícolas migratorios y estacionales y sus dependientes con el objetivo de ayudar a los trabajadores agrícolas a obtener un empleo de tiempo completo. Los trabajadores agrícolas que dependen principalmente de los empleos en el trabajo agrícola y que han experimentado desempleo y subempleo como resultado se beneficiarán enormemente en su búsqueda de empleo estable debido a esta financiación. "Entiendo de primera mano la situación de los estudiantes que son trabajadores migratorios o trabajadores agrícolas de temporada ya que mis propios padres eran trabajadores migrantes," dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Todos merecen la misma oportunidad de obtener los beneficios de la educación superior, incluso aquellos estudiantes cuyas calificaciones sufren porque están trabajando en los campos. Estos fondos federales son una inversión en nuestra generación más joven y en nuestra futura fuerza laboral local. Seguiré trabajando para obtener fondos para programas que impulsen a nuestra comunidad y abran las puertas de oportunidades para aquellos que no están familiarizados con la vida universitaria." El Congresista Cuellar agregó: "Quiero agradecer a mis colegas del Comité de Asignaciones y a los asesores del Subcomité de Trabajo, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas Presidente Tom Cole y la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudar a incluir este financiamiento que ayudará a los trabajadores migrantes y sus familias a recibir los medios de obtener una educación de calidad.” El Congresista Cuellar también aseguró: • $1.49 mil millones para Impact Aid (aumento de $ 47 millones con respecto al año fiscal 2018); • $124.4 millones para desarrollar el Programa de Instituciones de Servicio a los Hispanos (aumento de $1 millón con respecto al año fiscal 2018); y • $11 millones para el Programa de Promoción de Oportunidades Post Bachillerato para Hispanos Americanos. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the temporary deployment of 575 Texas U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers to California in response to the migrant caravan: “This afternoon, I spoke with CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, who provided me with an update on the current status of the caravan headed towards the U.S.-Mexico border. He informed me that CBP will temporarily deploy 575 CBP officers from Texas to the San Diego, California area in order to assist with the migrant caravan. During this discussion, I made the Commissioner aware of my concerns regarding the potential impacts to Texas land ports. Commissioner McAleenan has assured me that CBP will do everything possible to minimize the impacts to trade, retail, tourism, and Paisano seasonal traffic at all Texas port of entries. “As a Representative of the border, I understand the necessity behind sending additional personnel to California on a temporary basis, to make certain that CBP has the capacity to provide intending migrants with access to the asylum process in an orderly manner. However, we need to ensure that this movement does not adversely impact our economy and security. In Texas, especially during the holidays, we see a high influx of tourism and flow of commerce that ultimately mobilizes our economy. Additionally, the State of Texas conducts over half of all trade between the U.S. and Mexico. “For these reasons, I will continue to work with CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, to ensure that all Texas ports of entry have the resources to efficiently process legitimate trade and travel into the U.S.” ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON - Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración con respecto al despliegue temporal de 575 oficiales de Aduanas y Protección Fronteriza (CBP) de Texas en California en respuesta a la caravana de migrantes: “Esta tarde, hablé con el Comisionado de CBP, Kevin McAleenan, quien me brindó información actualizada sobre el estado actual de la caravana en dirección a la frontera de EE. UU. y México. Me informó que CBP desplegará temporalmente a 575 oficiales de CBP de Texas al área de San Diego, California, para ayudar con la caravana de migrantes. Durante esta discusión, informé al Comisionado sobre mis preocupaciones con respecto a los posibles impactos en los puertos terrestres de Texas. El Comisionado McAleenan me aseguró que CBP hará todo lo posible para minimizar el impacto al comercio, comercio minorista, turismo y tráfico estacional de Paisanos en todos los puertos de entrada de Texas. “Como Representante de la frontera, entiendo la necesidad de enviar personal adicional a California de manera temporal, para garantizar que CBP tenga la capacidad de proporcionar a los potenciales migrantes acceso al proceso de asilo de manera ordenada. Sin embargo, debemos asegurarnos de que este movimiento no afecte negativamente nuestra economía y seguridad. En Texas, especialmente durante las vacaciones, vemos una gran afluencia de turismo y flujo de comercio que moviliza nuestra economía. Además, el estado de Texas lleva a cabo más de la mitad de todo el comercio entre los EE. UU. y México. "Por estas razones, continuaré trabajando con el comisionado de la CBP, Kevin McAleenan, para garantizar que todos los puertos de entrada de Texas tengan los recursos para procesar de manera eficiente el comercio legítimo y viajar a los EE. UU." ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the temporary deployment of 575 Texas U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers to California in response to the migrant caravan: “This afternoon, I spoke with CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, who provided me with an update on the current status of the caravan headed towards the U.S.-Mexico border. He informed me that CBP will temporarily deploy 575 CBP officers from Texas to the San Diego, California area in order to assist with the migrant caravan. During this discussion, I made the Commissioner aware of my concerns regarding the potential impacts to Texas land ports. Commissioner McAleenan has assured me that CBP will do everything possible to minimize the impacts to trade, retail, tourism, and Paisano seasonal traffic at all Texas port of entries. “As a Representative of the border, I understand the necessity behind sending additional personnel to California on a temporary basis, to make certain that CBP has the capacity to provide intending migrants with access to the asylum process in an orderly manner. However, we need to ensure that this movement does not adversely impact our economy and security. In Texas, especially during the holidays, we see a high influx of tourism and flow of commerce that ultimately mobilizes our economy. Additionally, the State of Texas conducts over half of all trade between the U.S. and Mexico. “For these reasons, I will continue to work with CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan, to ensure that all Texas ports of entry have the resources to efficiently process legitimate trade and travel into the U.S.” ###
11.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released an update regarding the migrant caravan currently en route to the U.S.-Mexico Border. As a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Congressman Cuellar has received several briefings by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regarding this migration. “As a Member of Congress, I represent over 290 miles of the southwest border. My District is also home to about 736,150 hard-working citizens and 8 major ports of entry between the U.S. and Mexico, making border and national security a top priority of mine. In response to the impending migrant caravan, I want to provide my constituents with as much information as possible, including a map, to help them understand and assess the current situation regarding the migrant caravan. “The caravan with over 6,000 migrants has departed Mexico City en route to Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico. This caravan will likely follow the Viacrucis caravan that made its way to the California border in April 2018. It is expected that it will take approximately two weeks before a significant portion of the caravan will reach the U.S. border near San Diego, California. There are another 4,000 migrants headed north in three additional caravans, according to the International Organization for Migration.” The Congressman will continue to provide periodic updates on the caravan migration in the coming weeks. The above image represents one possible route the caravan formed on October 13 in Honduras (approximately 6,000 members) may follow. This caravan is currently located in Mexico City. ###
11.09.2018	WASHINGTON - Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) publicó una actualización sobre la caravana de migrantes que se encuentra actualmente en ruta hacia la frontera de EE. UU. y México. Como miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE. UU. Sobre Seguridad Nacional, el Congresista Cuellar ha recibido varias actualizaciones informativas del Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) sobre esta migración. “Como miembro del Congreso, represento más de 290 millas de la frontera suroeste. Mi Distrito también es el hogar de aproximadamente 736,150 ciudadanos que trabajan arduamente y 8 puertos de entrada principales entre los EE. UU. y México, lo que hace de la seguridad nacional y de las fronteras una de mis principales prioridades. En respuesta a la inminente caravana de migrantes, quiero proporcionar a mis electores la mayor información posible, incluido un mapa, para ayudarles a comprender y evaluar la situación actual de la caravana de migrantes. “La caravana con más de 6,000 migrantes ha salido de la Ciudad de México en ruta a Tijuana, Baja California, México. Es probable que esta caravana siga a la Caravana Viacrucis que se abrió camino a la frontera de California en abril de 2018. Se espera que tomará aproximadamente dos semanas antes de que una parte significativa de la caravana llegue a la frontera de los EE. UU. cerca de San Diego, California. Hay otros 4,000 migrantes que se dirigen hacia el norte en tres caravanas adicionales, según la Organización Internacional para las Migraciones." El congresista continuará brindando actualizaciones periódicas sobre la migración de caravanas en las próximas semanas. La imagen de arriba presenta una posible ruta que la caravana formada el 13 de octubre en Honduras (aproximadamente 6,000 miembros) pudiera seguir . Esta caravana se encuentra actualmente en la Ciudad de México. ###
11.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure over $22.5 billion for Pell Grants and a $100 increase in the maximum annual award per student in a “minibus” appropriations package containing the Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bills. He also included $1.5 billion to expand education programs for low-income students in the 28th District of Texas, such as the Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) and Federal TRiO programs. Furthermore, he secured language that helps establish partnerships with higher education institutions, including Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and other minority serving institutions. This bill passed both chambers and was signed into law by the President in late September. Pell Grants Congressman Cuellar helped increase the maximum award for Pell Grants to $6,195, a $100 increase per student from FY18. This funding will provide support to students with financial needs who have not earned their first bachelor's degree, or who are enrolled in certain post-baccalaureate programs, through participating institutions. This continues funding for year-round, or "Summer," Pell Grants, which will provide approximately one million students nationwide with an additional grant averaging $1,650. More than 29,000 students in Texas’ 28th Congressional district received Pell Grants for the 2016-2017 school year, adding up to more than $122 million distributed to students in Congressman Cuellar’s district. In this area, there are more than a dozen HSIs, including Laredo Community College, South Texas College, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word, and Texas A&M International University. Universities in the South Texas region and their percentage of Pell Grant recipients (for which the latest National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) data is available) who are first time, full-time degree seekers: · Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) 42% · Hallmark University (San Antonio) 58% · Laredo College 74% · Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) 66% · Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) 64% · Palo Alto College (San Antonio) 66% · South Texas College (McAllen) 79% · St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) 48% · St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) 63% · Texas A&M International University (Laredo) 67% · The University of Texas at San Antonio 45% · The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio 28% · The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley 69% · University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) 46% · Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) 56% · Texas A&M San Antonio 64% Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs Congressman Cuellar helped secure $360 million for Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), a $10 million increase from FY18. GEAR UP Programs are designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. GEAR UP provides six-year grants that provide funding for services at high-poverty middle and high schools. They also provide college scholarships to low-income students and fund support services for students including tutoring, mentoring, offering dual enrollment classes and college tours. The objectives of these programs are to increase academic performance and preparation for postsecondary education, increase high school graduation and postsecondary participation rates, and increase families’ knowledge of postsecondary options, preparation, and finances. Universities throughout the 28th District of Texas have greatly benefited from this funding. In 2017, Congressman Cuellar announced that the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) was awarded $21.2 million to operate GEAR UP Programs. As part of the grant, UTRGV, Valley school districts, and community partners matched the U.S. Department of Education’s funding, providing more than $42 million to benefit students in the Rio Grande Valley. Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) in Laredo has also used GEAR UP funds to prepare over 8,000 students, in 20 school districts throughout South Texas. Dr. Minita Ramirez, Vice President for Student Success for Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) said, “Thanks to Congressman Henry Cuellar and the Department of Education. Through the GEAR UP Grant, Texas A&M International University has been able to help thousands of South Texas' most promising students realize their potential and the opportunities formal higher education makes real. These GEAR UP students realize the long-term impact good education has for themselves and their families. This program and others like it open doors, create dreams, and fuel hopes for brighter futures.” “These funds allow UTRGV to expose more students to higher education and careers related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM),” UTRGV President Guy Bailey said. “This grant would not have been possible without the support of the Valley’s congressional leaders, U.S. Reps. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) and Filemón Vela (TX-34).” Federal TRiO Programs This bill also includes $1.06 billion for Federal TRiO Programs, a $50 million increase from FY18. TRiO programs are federal outreach and student services programs designed to help individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds progress through their academic careers from middle school to post baccalaureate programs. These programs primarily serve low-income, first-generation college students, as well as students with disabilities, veterans, homeless youth, foster youth, and individuals underrepresented in graduate education. At TAMIU, the TRiO Student Support Services (SSS) Program helps increase college retention and graduation rates of its participants. TRiO SSS supports its students by offering academic tutoring, personal and academic counseling, and leadership conferences. Because of on-going support for program participants, TRiO SSS students continuously outperform non-program participants with increased retention, higher grades, and higher graduation rates. In the 2016-17 school year, TRiO’s retention rate was 93%, good academic standing was 94%, and the graduation rate was 61%, showing just how valuable the program is to TAMIU students and the community. Securing Millions for Hispanic Serving Institutions Congressman Cuellar’s additional wins include millions for HSIs. This includes $124 million for the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program, which provides grants to HSIs to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the educational attainment of, Hispanic students. This bill also includes $44.6 million to help promote post baccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Programs, including the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP). Both of these programs provide grants to expand post baccalaureate educational opportunities for Hispanic students. Additional education and HSI wins: Language encouraging the DOD to work collaboratively in the health research field with HSIs; Language directing the Secretary of Defense to work with HSIs to develop programs that will prepare more students to meet the eligibility requirements for pilot training in the Air Force; and Language encouraging the Director of the National Security Education Program (DOD) to find ways to work with HSIs to ensure a diversity of analysis with proficiency in critical languages. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. We need to ensure that every student, regardless of their economic background, is prepared to compete in a 21st-century, competitive job market. These programs provide academic assistance to first-generation and disadvantaged students in college, ensuring that they have the resources they need to succeed.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro, for helping me secure these funds. This money will ensure that low-income students get the education and opportunities they deserve.” Watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the House Floor here. ###
11.06.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced over $3.7 million awarded to the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) from the Department of Education (ED) through the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) Program. UTSA’s Academy for Teachers Excellence (ATE), in partnership with Northwest Vista College (NVC) within the Alamo Colleges District, will use these funds to establish the Latino-Teacher Academy Learning Community (Latino-TALC). Expanding and Enhancing Bilingual Education at UTSA These funds will be distributed to UTSA over an expected five-year budget period in order to continue the expansion and enhancement of UTSA’s academic offerings, program quality, and institutional stability. Specifically, the Latino-TALC project will provide teachers seeking to serve the Bexar County community with much needed support while they navigate through a learning environment to a professional learning network, and as they embark into the teaching profession. Increasing Opportunities for Hispanic Teachers and Students In addition, the Latino-TALC project will address the need to increase the number of Hispanic teachers within the critical teaching areas of bilingual education, English as a second language, mathematics, and science. Specifically, the following five goals will be addressed: 1) Increase the number of Hispanic students prepared to enroll at NVC and UTSA as education majors; 2) Increase the number of Hispanic and underrepresented students graduating from NVC and transferring to UTSA majoring in a critical teaching area; 3) Increase the number of student support programs and make psychosocial and culturally relevant support initiatives available to Hispanic other underrepresented teacher candidates majoring in a critical teaching shortage areas; 4) Create a community of learners composed of faculty, staff, and administrators from NVC, UTSA, and partner high schools to maintain a college-going culture and strengthen the teacher pipeline; and 5) Evaluate best practices to increase Hispanic teacher candidates’ college completion and teacher certification rates. Securing Funding for Hispanic Education Programs For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a priority to secure funding for HSIs in his district. He helped secure over $123 million in the FY18 Appropriations bill, which provides the funding for this project. Congressman Cuellar continues to work in appropriations to grow HSI initiatives. This year the Congressman helped secure an additional $50 million for such programs through the U.S. House of Representatives’ Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill. Additionally, this year, he worked to include $44.6 million to promote post baccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Programs including the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP) in the Labor, Health and Education Appropriations bill. Hispanics constitute 16 percent of the U.S. workforce and more than 60 percent of Hispanic students attend a Hispanic-Serving Institution. There are more than a dozen HSIs in or near Congressman Cuellar’s district, including Laredo College, South Texas College, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word, Northeast Lakeview College, and Texas A&M International University. The Congressman will continue to ensure these students are well prepared to enter the U.S. workforce by addressing their particular educational needs. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. I also see it every day in my district, as we have more than a dozen Hispanic-Serving Institutions serving our area. These schools produce top-notch academic talent, prepared for a 21st-century workforce. Our accomplishments today ensure that universities do not miss out on this valuable population in research, partnerships, and hiring – and that these important institutions have the funds they need to continue to succeed. I would like to thank the San Antonio Delegation including Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Will Hurd (TX-23), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) for their dedication on this issue.” ###
11.05.2018	LAREDO, TX— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement to mark the one-year anniversary of the shooting that occurred last November in Sutherland Springs, Texas. “Today, it is with a heavy heart that we solemnly mark the one-year anniversary of the Sutherland Springs shooting. A year ago today, a horrific act of violence took place that claimed 26 innocent lives. I would like to extend my deepest sympathies to the friends and family of those who fell victim to this tragic event. “We pause to remember those who lost their lives, and we send our prayers to the survivors and family members still suffering from the brutality and heartbreak of this attack. “As we look back, let us not dwell on the senseless violence committed; Let us instead cherish the coming together of a community to uplift those carrying immeasurable grief. In the wake of tragedies like the Sutherland Springs shooting, the outpour of kindness and love reveals the great power of humanity to rise from darkness. Though the pain of this violence lingers, Sutherland Springs exemplifies a remarkable resilience of spirit and dedication to compassion.” ###
10.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released a Congressional Research Service (CRS) memorandum providing a general overview and analysis of the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), as well as a summary of selected provisions that may affect U.S.-Mexico trade relations. Congressman Cuellar released the following statement: “As a representative of the border, I believe it is important to fully understand the impact that a trilateral trade deal will have on border communities. This document provides an analysis of the recent USMCA in comparison to NAFTA and the implications it will have on U.S.-Mexico trade relations. I am encouraged to see the Administration taking active steps to bring confidence and certainty back to businesses in Texas. It is my hope that this new agreement is quickly signed into law, so that we are able to continue to capitalize on the economic benefits NAFTA has facilitated for over two decades.” See attached analysis of USMCA here. For additional information, please contact Olya Voytovich at Olya.Voytovich@mail.house.gov or Leslie Martinez at Leslie.Martinez@mail.house.gov. ###
10.31.2018	LAREDO, TX—Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and the City of Laredo announced $5,863,200 in federal funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program (BWIP) that will assist the border region with a number of water infrastructure projects. Specifically, this funding will be used to cover a number of major water infrastructure projects, including two affecting the 28th District, in Tamaulipas, Mexico, and Palmview, Texas. These projects will benefit thousands of local residents throughout Laredo and Nuevo Laredo by decreasing waste water discharge into the Rio Grande River and enhancing wastewater collection and treatment. BWIP is administered by the North American Development Bank (NADB) for EPA Region 6, covering the states of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Louisiana. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority to help secure funding for the Border Water Infrastructure Program, which funds NADB projects. North American Development Bank NADB provides financing, as well as technical and other assistance, to support the development and implementation of infrastructure projects that help preserve, protect, and enhance the environment of the border region in order to advance the well-being of the people of the United States and Mexico. In the 28th district, funding provided through NADB promotes a variety of projects related to environmental infrastructure, water conservation, energy efficiency, and improved environmental quality. Since its creation in 1994, the NADBank has financed $2.59 billion in 220 projects through loans and grants. NADB Projects in the 28th District The Congressman secured $5.8 million total - $3,863,469 for the Project Development Assistance Program (PDAP), which funds project development and design; and $2,179,731 for the Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF), which funds project implementation. Two projects in the Congressman’s 28th Congressional District have been selected by the EPA to receive PDAP funding. One of these projects, in Tamaulipas, will help reduce untreated wastewater discharges into the Rio Grande River from the Nuevo Laredo Wastewater Treatment Plant due to surface discharges in the sewer collection system, benefitting approximately 48,000 local residents in Laredo and Nuevo Laredo. An additional project, in Palmview, provide enhanced centralized wastewater collection and treatment. Tamaulipas Project Currently, water in the Rio Grande is being exposed to untreated wastewater due to surface discharges in the sewer collection system and the absence of treatment. The existing collection system has exceeded its useful life and presents leaks and ruptures in six sub-collectors, which causes surface discharges into the El Coyote stream, which discharges into the Rio Grande River. The Tamaulipas project consists of the rehabilitation of the wastewater collection system, eliminating direct discharges to the stream El Coyote, a tributary of the Rio Grande river. This project will help eliminate these discharges and will benefit approximately 48,000 residents. AGUA- Special Utility District (SUD)’s Palmview Sewer Project Currently, residents in the Palmview area do not have access to centralized wastewater collection and treatment infrastructure. Only on-site wastewater disposal systems, such as septic tanks or other types of on-site systems are available. Due to population density and soil conditions, these systems do not operate properly and are not in compliance with Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) requirements. These conditions are further exacerbated during flooding events, when the risk for human contact with raw sewage increases and run-off into nearby drainage canals threaten the quality of water used for agriculture. The Palmview Sewer Project consists of the installation of 1,752 wastewater hook-ups along and will benefit approximately 7,000 local residents. Congressman Cuellar’s Legislative Efforts As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar has worked to secure funding for the Border Water Infrastructure Program, which funds NADB projects. Since fiscal year 2016, the Congressman has helped secure $40 million in funding for projects in his district, increasing clean drinking a water, and making necessary improvements to water infrastructure. In early 2017, he introduced the North American Development Bank Improvement and General Capital Increase Authorization Act, which would authorize funds appropriated to the bank in 2016 and streamline the bank’s project approval process. During his time in the Texas State Legislature, Congressman Cuellar helped secure funding from the State of Texas for the Nuevo Laredo waste water treatment plant to improve the quality of sewage discharged into the Rio Grande. For this project, the U.S. Federal share was 45 percent, the Mexican share 50 percent, and Texas’ share 5 percent. “The North American Development Bank has been a fantastic investment for American taxpayers, and provides essential services on our southern border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Clean drinking water, sewage and waste treatment are the kinds of basic projects we can’t afford to under-fund. They don’t just keep our communities clean – they keep us safe from disease. I want to thank Laredo Mayor Saenz, the City of Laredo and Mayor of Nuevo Laredo Enrique Rivas for their commitment to the well-being of our communities. I also want to thank the representatives from NADB and the Rio Grande International Study Center for their leadership on this project.” Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) presents EPA Grant to stakeholders in Laredo on Wednesday. Pictured from left are South Central Deputy Regional Director for U.S. Senator John Cornyn's office Henry Juvera, Congressman Henry Cuellar, U.S. Consul General in Nuevo Laredo Kathryn Flatchsbart, Mayor of Nuevo Laredo Enrique Rivas Cuellar, Mayor of Laredo Pete Saenz, Deputy Managing Director of North American Development Bank Calixto Mateos, Rio Grande International Study Center Executive Director Tricia Cortez, and Rio Grande International Study Board Member Edward D. Garza. ###
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s claim to issue an executive order and terminate the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of citizenship: “The President has announced that he will use an executive order to rescind the constitutionally protected right that grants U.S. citizenship to anybody born on U.S. soil— this would be clearly unconstitutional. In order to void a 150-year-old law, the President would require Congress to limit birthright citizenship, either via statute, or by overriding both the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Wong Kim Ark (1898) and the 14th Amendment’s Citizenship Clause through an amendment to the Constitution. Furthermore, the U.S. currently stands alongside 30 other countries around the world, including Canada, Mexico, and Argentina, that have birthright citizenship laws. I urge President Trump to work with Congress in a bipartisan fashion to find long-term solutions that address faults in our immigration system— not threaten unconstitutional, unilateral executive action. I additionally ask that this matter not be caught in a legal fight that would distract us from addressing issues at the border in an effective and practical manner.” ###
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hoy, el congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración sobre la orden ejecutiva que el Presidente Trump planea para abolir la ciudadanía por derecho de nacimiento: “El Presidente ha anunciado que usará una orden ejecutiva para rescindir el derecho protegido constitucionalmente que otorga la ciudadanía estadounidense a cualquier persona nacida en territorio estadounidense, lo cual sería claramente inconstitucional. Para anular una ley de 150 años, el Presidente requeriría que el Congreso limite la ciudadanía por derecho de nacimiento, ya sea a través de un estatuto, o anulando el caso de la Corte Suprema de EE. UU. v. Wong Kim Ark (1898) y la Cláusula de ciudadanía a través de la 14ª enmienda de la Constitución. Además, los Estados Unidos actualmente se encuentra junto a otros 30 países del mundo, incluidos Canadá, México y Argentina, que tienen leyes de ciudadanía por nacimiento. Insito al Presidente Trump a trabajar con el Congreso de manera bipartidista para encontrar soluciones a largo plazo que aborden las fallas en nuestro sistema de inmigración, sin amenazar con una acción ejecutiva unilateral e inconstitucional. Además, solicito que este asunto no quede atrapado en una lucha legal que nos distraiga de abordar los problemas en la frontera de una manera efectiva y práctica." ###
10.30.2018	LAREDO, TX—Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and the City of Laredo announced over $7.5 million to the Laredo International Airport to make necessary infrastructure improvements that will bring in trade while increasing safety and efficiency of the airport. Specifically, these federal funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will be used to improve the Laredo International Airport cargo runway, having a direct impact on trade and the economy of the surrounding area. This money is in addition to the over $181 million dollars in federal funds that have been awarded to the Laredo Int’l Airport over the last 10 years. Over the last 25 years, the airport has received over $243 million dollars in funds with an additional $20 million in local match. This federal grant funding will be used for the rehabilitation of 8,000 square yards of the existing cargo apron to maintain the structural strength of the pavement. These airport improvements and expansion will increase the safety, efficiency and capacity of aircraft movements. This funding is provided through the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The Laredo International Airport is an international gateway for air cargo. In 2017, 539,644,288 pounds of air cargo landed via the Port of Laredo. FedEx, BAX Global, DHL, and Airborne are a few of cargo carriers that serve the Laredo Community. In the last five years, only one of the roughly four dozen U.S. customs districts has seen its trade grow more rapidly than Laredo’s which is up 30.94% in that period. Over the last two decades Laredo’s trade has increased 354.93%, more than twice as fast as the U.S. overall. The Laredo Int’l Airport is the only airport in the U.S. with an operation of Mexican Customs to pre-inspect south bound air cargo. Thanks to the Congressman’s efforts with the governments of Mexico and the United States to establish this operation, which allows cargo to be pre-inspected by Mexican customs officers under the Servicio de Administración Tributaria (SAT) at the Laredo International Airport and arrive in Mexico as pre-inspected cargo. Congressman Cuellar has worked on this project closely with the City of Laredo, who invested $3.3 million, to construct the facility. Industries participating under Mexican Customs pre-inspection include auto parts, automotive manufacturing, electronics/electrical and aerospace, with auto parts being the number one air cargo commodity in Laredo. Cellphones, gasoline, and motor vehicles are also among the most actively traded commodities. Laredo Int’l Airport is the only primary commercial service airport in the U.S. with CBP availability 24/7 to include clearance of air cargo. Air Traffic Operations have increased over six percent in the last year. “This grant represents a federal investment for the well-being of our citizens and for our economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Improving trade and passenger safety, while allowing for easier more efficient commerce, will improve our local economy and tourism here in Laredo. I will continue fighting for funding for programs to bring more trade, improve safety and infrastructure in Laredo. I would like to thank City of Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, District V Council Member Nelly Vielma, City Manager Horacio De Leon, and Director of Transportation Mario Maldonado for working with me on this issue.” “We thank Congressman Cuellar for his support to the City of Laredo as we apply for competitive federal grants,” said Mayor Pete Saenz. “These funds will help with much needed upgrades to our cargo apron and allow us to continue to attract business from all over the world to Port Laredo.” “This grant will go a long way to help us with our master airport plan,” said Laredo City Manager Horacio de Leon, Jr. “The rehabilitation of our cargo apron is needed so that we can continue with much-needed upgrades to our airport which will allow for larger and heavier aircrafts to do business in our city. I thank Congressman Cuellar for all his efforts to make Laredo number one in trade.” Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) presents Department of Transportation grant to the Laredo International Airport in Laredo on Tuesday. Pictured from left are Congressman Henry Cuellar, Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Horacio de Leon Jr., Deputy City Manager Cynthia Collazo, Assistant Airport Director Elsy Borgstedte, Director of Transportation Mario Maldonado and Airport Director Alejandro Labrada. ###
10.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the Department of Defense deploying troops to the border: “Today, the Secretary of Defense approved the President’s request for deploying active duty military units, with over 5,200 personnel, to provide mission-enhancing capabilities along the Southwest Border. This includes combat engineer units, military planning, helicopter companies, medical units, and military police in addition to the previously authorized support to CBP’s Operation Guardian Support mission. “Although I believe that we need to immediately secure the border, I strongly believe that this starts with ensuring that we implement policies and utilize technology that will have long-term, significant outcomes on the area in a safe and reliable way. This partnership with DOD will help enhance CBP capabilities at, and between, our ports of entry. I will continue to monitor the caravan’s movement and support sensible and sustainable policies to address our border security vulnerabilities.” ###
10.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) emitió la siguiente declaración sobre el despliegue de tropas del Departamento de Defensa en la frontera: “Hoy, el Secretario de Defensa aprobó la solicitud del Presidente para desplegar unidades militares en servicio activo aproximadamente, con más de 5,200 efectivos, para proporcionar capacidades de mejora de la misión a lo largo de la frontera suroeste. Esto incluye unidades de ingenieros de combate, planificación militar, compañías de helicópteros, unidades médicas y policía militar, además del apoyo previamente autorizado a la misión de Apoyo de Guardianes de la Operación de CBP. “Aunque creo que debemos asegurar la frontera de inmediato, creo firmemente que esto comienza con garantizar que implementemos políticas y utilicemos tecnología que tendrá resultados significativos a largo plazo en el área de una manera segura y confiable. Esta asociación con DOD ayudará a mejorar las capacidades de CBP en, y entre, nuestros puertos de entrada. Continuaré monitoreando el movimiento de la caravana y apoyaré políticas sensatas y sostenibles para enfrentar nuestras vulnerabilidades de seguridad en la frontera." ###
10.26.2018	LAREDO, TX—On Friday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced more than $3.1 million in federal funds in two separate grants for Texas A&M International University (TAMIU). Specifically, TAMIU received a $1,937,380 grant as part of the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) Program for its ADVancing the Instruction of Science Educators (ADVISE) Project and a $1,169,398 grant for its Advanced Nursing Education Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (ANE-SANE) Program. ADVancing the Instruction of Science Educators (ADVISE) Project The HSI grant, which comes from U.S. Department of Education, will help TAMIU expand educational opportunities and improve the attainment of Hispanic students. The ADVISE Projects is aimed at increasing the pool of Hispanic Science teachers committed to teaching high-need schools in both rural and urban districts in Webb County. Over five years, the project will prepare at least 60 qualified, state certified general science teachers who will be employed primarily at Laredo and United independent school districts. Currently, TAMIU has a 94 percent Hispanic and a 79 percent low-income student population. The funding is for five years covering annual budget costs ranging up to $424,052. “The ADVISE Program will afford Webb County Hispanic students, regardless of their economic background, the opportunity to participate in general science higher education curriculums,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This year, through the House Appropriations Committee, I was able to help secure $157 million in funding, a $15 million increase from FY17, for the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. This will continue to provide funding for migrant workers and their children, so they can pursue college or training for jobs.” TAMIU President Dr. Pablo Arenaz said “As we look to the future, we know that it will surely be measured in science-driven innovation. The TAMIU ADVISE program will help to ensure that we empower a talented pool of qualified State -general science teachers who can educate and lead the next generation of scientists. Those young scientists will lead discovery and innovation for generations to come. We are gratified that Congressman Cuellar shares in this expansive vision of a world made better by science education.” Advanced Nursing Education Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (ANE-SANE) Program The ANE-SANE program grant, which is being funded through the Department of Health and Human Services Health Resources and Services Administration, will fund advanced nurse education to help increase the number of forensic nurses who are trained and certified as sexual assault nurse examiners. The project seeks is to provide better physical and mental health care for survivors, better evidence collection, and higher prosecution rates. One of the project’s goals is to train 54 predominantly Hispanic registered nurses over the next 3 years. This includes the faculty nurses who are actively practicing the profession. This funding is for an anticipated three-year budget at approximately $390,000 annually. According to 2017 US Census data, Webb County has an estimated 274,794 residents, but there is only one active SANE trained nurse in the target area. A recent report from the Laredo Police Department indicates that so far in 2018, only 8 percent, or 7 out of 79, sexual assault victims were taken to the emergency room for forensic evaluation. Congressman Cuellar said “The ANE-SANE Program will utilize the actively practicing nursing faculty at TAMIU, and expand their numbers, in order to better service this medically underserved region. These services need to be provided directly to our local residents by local practitioners. This network will ensure that victims will no longer need to be transferred to a SANE facility outside Webb County due to lack of SANE nurses in the area.” “Once again, the University, in partnership with Congressman Cuellar, proudly steps forward as the lead agent in forging a solution to a troubling problem: the chronic shortage of SANE nurses here. In doing so, we fulfill our mission of creating programs responsive to local needs and through strategic community collaborations, deliver needed healthcare specialists to our service region,” said TAMIU President Dr. Pablo Arenaz. Congressman Henry Cuellar Presents Advanced Nursing Education Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (ANE-SANE) Program Grant to Texas A&M International University in Laredo on Friday. ###
10.25.2018	LAREDO, TX —On Thursday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the Webb County Sheriff’s office received $3.6 million in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program to support local law enforcement for equipment, over-time pay and conduct interagency operations. This program provides funding to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders. Since 2008, Webb County has been awarded a total of $33,389,893 in Operation Stonegarden funding. The Congressman helped secure $85 million nationwide, a $30 million increase from FY17, through his role on the U.S. House of Representatives Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Statewide, Texas received over $30 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. I want to thank Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, the Webb County Commissioners’ Court, Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina, the Laredo Police Department, Webb County Constables and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Thanks to Congressman Cuellar for always supporting law enforcement. Working together, we will make a difference when it comes to protecting our community,” said Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “Thanks to this Operation Stone Garden Grant, our deputies will be better equipped to help us fight crime along the border.” The FY 2018 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $85,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. To read more about Operation Stonegarden, click here. ###
10.24.2018	ZAPATA, TX – On Tuesday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that Zapata County has received $300,000 in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program to support local law enforcement for equipment, over-time pay and conduct interagency operations. This program provides funding to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders. The Congressman helped secure $85 million nationwide, a $30 million increase from FY17, through his role on the U.S. House of Representatives Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Statewide, Texas received over $30 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. I want to thank Zapata County Sheriff Alonso M. Lopez, Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. Zapata County Sheriff Alonso M. Lopez said, “The Zapata County Sheriff’s Office would like to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for working tirelessly to provide the citizens of Zapata County with extra protection and services. These protections and services can come about because of the Stonegarden grant awarded to Zapata County. The funds provided, give the officers of the Zapata County Sheriff’s office the ability to protect our border. The grant also enhances our ability to provide equipment to our officers for the protection and safety of our citizens. This grant could not have been granted to us if it were not for Congressman Cuellar. We at the Zapata Sheriff’s office, thank our Congressman and his staff for their support. Again thank you Congressman Cuellar.” The FY 2018 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $85,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. To read more about Operation Stonegarden, click here. ###
10.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Senators John Cornyn (TX) and Ted Cruz (TX) today joined Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Filemon Vela (TX-34) in a letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator William ‘Brock’ Long requesting that FEMA reconsider their denial of damages reported by Cameron and Hidalgo Counties in their applications for Public Assistance (PA) resulting from this summer’s recent severe storms and flooding. In July 2018, rainfall was measured at 15-17 inches of rain throughout Texas’ Rio Grande Valley and Coastal Bend. On Friday, July 6, 2018, President Donald J. Trump announced a Federal Disaster Declaration, DR-4377-FEMA, for Hidalgo and Cameron Counties after multiple requests from Congressmen Gonzalez, Vela, and Cuellar; Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz; and Governor Greg Abbott. Individual Assistance and Hazard Mitigation assistance eligibility were granted; however, Public Assistance (PA) was not. Both Texas Senators have joined forces with the three Congressmen to urge that Administrator Long address inaccurate damage assessments and surveys carried out by FEMA on the ground, coupled with a new interpretation of federal law that is inconsistent with precedent for past disasters. The members are also requesting supporting documentation and the relevant change in federal law that has resulted in FEMA’s recent policy shift deeming irrigation and drainage districts ineligible for PA. "Cameron and Hidalgo counties have experienced tremendous loss and devastation as a result of extreme flooding in June,” Sen. Cruz said. “In the face of disaster I am proud of Texas' law enforcement, first responders, and elected officials for jumping into action and helping our fellow Texans impacted by the storms and floods there. It is critical that Administrator Long and FEMA reevaluates the damage assessments for Hidalgo and Cameron counties to ensure that the counties receive all of the federal aid available after the massive destruction caused by this summer's flooding." Congressman Cuellar said, “We must continue to work towards securing resources that areas like Cameron and Hidalgo Counties need to recover from the recent storms and floods. It is my hope that Administrator Long will reconsider FEMA’s damage assessments, as it is our belief that the process used to make these determinations was flawed. I would like to thank my fellow colleagues from Texas for joining me in these recovery efforts. I would also like to recognize local, state, and federal officials for ensuring that these communities receive the aid they require.” “I thank local, state, and federal officials for their continued efforts to assist in recovery efforts for Cameron and Hidalgo Counties and for calling on us for aid,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “I urge Administrator Long to reconsider the current damage assessments and recognize the flawed process that made these determinations. Our constituents are not asking for favors, only the consistent application of law to the facts.” “I urge Administrator Long to reconsider the denial of public assistance to Cameron and Hidalgo Counties,” Congressman Vela said. “The recent rains wreaked havoc on the Lower Rio Grande Valley, and it is incredibly important to provide the necessary support for a quick and effective recovery. I appreciate all the efforts of local, state, and federal officials to secure FEMA designation for Individual Assistance and Hazard Mitigation.” Read the full letter here. ###
10.24.2018	RIO GRANDE CITY, TX – On Tuesday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that Starr County has received $2 million in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program to support local law enforcement for equipment, over-time pay and conduct interagency operations. This program provides funding to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders. The Congressman helped secure $85 million nationwide, a $30 million increase from FY17, through his role on the U.S. House of Representatives Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. Statewide, Texas received over $30 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. I want to thank Starr County Sheriff Rene Fuentes and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar and the federal government for providing Starr County with these funds and allowing us to enhance our community’s security apparatus,” Starr County Sheriff Rene Fuentes said. “These dollars go a long way in our mission of keeping our community safe. We will use these funds to fortify our existing structure and identify new practices to continue to make Starr County one of the safest Counties in all of Texas.” The FY 2018 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $85,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. To read more about Operation Stonegarden, click here. ###
10.22.2018	MISSION, TX— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced two grants for the City of Mission -- a $1,022,828 federal grant to the Mission Fire Department from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Program and a $500,000 grant for the City of Mission from the National Park Service (NPS) for the revitalization of Birdwell Park. Funding for Mission Fire Department The City of Mission Fire Department will specifically be used to hire nine additional full-time firefighters. The money will be distributed over a three-year period at $340,942 per year. The SAFER Program focuses on providing funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter organizations to help them increase or maintain the number of trained, frontline firefighters in their communities. This award will help the Mission Fire Department comply with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1710 standard, which recommends fire stations to staff at least four firefighters at all times per station. Currently, Mission Fire Stations #4 and #45 only employ three firefighters each, which could impede their efficiency during a crisis. “Given this growth, the ability to have a department that meets NFPA 1710 standards will greatly improve the safety of the community and also the safety of our firefighters,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This funding will ensure that the Mission Fire Department will be able to hire staff to accommodate the city’s growing population and increase the safety of its citizens, without burdening our local residents with undue costs.” Funding for Birdwell Park In addition, Congressman Cuellar presented a $500,000 grant to the City of Mission for the revitalization and transformation of Birdwell Park into a new tennis complex. The tennis complex will be complete with 13 new tennis courts and a revitalized trail. The four playground areas will remain intact and the trail will become a 10-foot-wide installation with distance markers, water fountains, exercise equipment and park benches. The federal award comes from NPS’s Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) through their State & Local Assistance Program. This program focuses on providing funding for local and state park projects outside national park boundaries. These funds help build and protect a “seamless system of parks from backyard to backcountry.” Currently, there are no tennis complex facilities in the Upper Rio Grande Valley that offer opportunities for lessons and the ability to host a major tournament. The City of Mission has been working with the United States Tennis Association (UTSA) to design the park, including materials to be used for construction, and the potential to host major tournaments. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank the City of Mission and the Valley Baptist Legacy Foundation for continuing to seek means of improving this community and elevating it to a national level. These are critical funds that will help grow the city’s economy. The ability to have a complex to host tournaments is a positive economic value for the community and one that can enhance tourism in the area.” ###
10.22.2018	ROMA, TX— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), announced $700,000 in federal funding for the City of Roma’s new bus terminal and participated in the groundbreaking ceremony. Funds to construct the bus terminal were first provided through a $400,000 federal grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) earmarked by Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), and most recently, the $300,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to secure for the same project. The project will include a 2,800 square foot bus terminal with space for four bus lines and a waiting area for passengers. It will also house a loading area with four bays for buses, facility parking, and street development. This funding will create jobs and generate economic development in the surrounding area. In 2009, Congressman Cuellar recognized the increased need for more multimodal transportation options in the community and reinforced FTA’s commitment to the project with an additional $300,000 earmark. Buses coming into town have been forced to park in the city right of way areas, congesting traffic and making it unsafe for passengers loading and unloading. These improvements will help alleviate this congestion and eliminate harmful bottlenecks in these areas. The new bus terminal project will include: · A 2,800 square foot bus terminal with space for four bus lines to operate and a waiting area for passengers; and · A loading area with four bays for buses, facility parking, and street development. “The City of Roma continues to suffer from unregulated bus traffic and over the years has lost several bus lines due to a lack of proper infrastructure,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This new bus terminal will greatly improve the City of Roma’s transportation infrastructure, making bus travel in Roma safer and easier for citizens and visitors alike. I would like to thank the City of Roman Mayor Roberto Salinas, City of Roma Councilmembers and Assistant City Manager Freddy Guerra, for focusing on the needs of this community and for their efforts to develop this project.” ###
10.19.2018	FLORESVILLE, TX— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) attended a ceremony recognizing the completion of the City of Floresville’s newly constructed U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) and to announce $888,556.85 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding for Wilson County. Construction of the Floresville wastewater treatment plant was made possible with $9.47 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) through their Rural Development Program. Specifically, funding was provided through a USDA $1.79 million grant, $7.49 million in USDA direct loans, and a $180,000 contribution from the City of Floresville. Following the ceremony, the Congressman announced more than $888,000 in FEMA funding for Wilson County. From this funding, over $100,000 will be awarded by FEMA to reimburse the county for overage costs incurred due to damages from the 2015 Memorial Day Weekend Flooding. Wastewater Treatment Plant Funding The City of Floresville received $9.47 million in funding from the USDA Rural Development Program which includes $1.79 million in grant, $7.49 million in loan, and $180,000 in City funding contribution. This funding has allowed the city to construct this new facility with significant upgrades to the previous wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) and collection system. Major improvements to the WWTP include: · A new carousel oxidation basin; · Two new clarifiers; · A new disinfection system; · A new chlorine contact chamber; · A belt filter press for sludge processing; · New emergency power; and · Electrical and control system improvements. Specifically, the WWTP improvements will increase the plant’s average flow capacity from 900,000 gallons per day (GPD) to 1.2 million GPD and increase peak flow capacity from 1.8 million GPD to 4.8 million GPD. The new plant will have the capacity to anticipate the City of Floresville’s expected growth through 2050. Significant upgrades to the existing wastewater treatment plant will develop essential community facilities in rural areas, paving the way for a stronger future for the City of Floresville. Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority to ensure that disaster relief reaches the 28th District of Texas. In fiscal year 2018, he helped secure $48.6 million from the USDA Rural Development Program through the Appropriations Committee. This program provides affordable funding to develop essential community facilities in rural areas. In fiscal year 2019, he continued to support this program and helped secure $43.7 million in funding. Congressman Cuellar stated, “Funding for the Wastewater Treatment Plant will allow the City of Floresville to make improvements to the WWTP, which will ensure that the plant is able to meet heightened state treatment standards and the demands of Floresville’s rising population. I would like to thank City of Floresville Mayor Gonzalez-Dipple, the City of Floresville, the City Council, USDA and the Wastewater Treatment Plant for engaging in this critical mission.” “After years of planning and construction Floresville is so excited to celebrate our waste water opening on Friday, said Mayor of Floresville Cissy Gonzalez-Dippel. “A million thanks to Congressman Cuellar and all who made it possible.” “As City Manager, I am so proud to have the Congressman visit our lovely City and recognize the completion the Wastewater Treatment Plant and Water project,” said Floresville City Manager Henrietta Turner. “With the help and assistance of Congressman Cuellar’s office and the continuous support of the USDA and elected officials, the City of Floresville has worked hard to make this project come into fruition. We look forward to seeing the countless benefits that come as a result of this.” FEMA Disaster Relief Funding Wilson County was awarded over $1.18 million in federal and state funds from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Texas Department of Agriculture (TDA) and Texas Department of Emergency Management (TDEM). The federal reimbursement share of the award, of over $888,000, comes through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) disaster relief program. Congressman Cuellar was instrumental in ensuring the county received FEMA funding after the May, 2015 catastrophic flooding. The reimbursements covered costs to repair crucial infrastructure in the county including roads, bridges and culverts. Included in this funding was over $100,000 to cover critical overage costs, which the Congressman helped expedite to the county. “We must continue to secure necessary resources to help areas like Wilson County recover from disastrous floods,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With this overage award, Wilson County received 100% coverage for all documented and validated costs after succumbing to severe weather. I would like to thank Wilson County, Commissioner Gamez, Judge Richard Jackson and FEMA for joining me in making monumental recovery efforts and ensuring this community received the aid it greatly deserved.” Wilson County Commissioner Albert Gamez said, “I want to give thanks to Leann Holechek from the Emergency Management I of Wilson County for working with us on this project. I would additionally like to thanks the representatives from the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar for helping us secure funding for the FEMA projects for the 2015 Memorial Day Weekend flooding. After much anticipation, we are happy to announce that received payments that we needed to make this a reality. With the help of Congressman Cuellar, these funds are already being put to great use by upgrading our roads. Again, I give thanks to everybody that helped out in this recovery and secured these funds.” ###
10.18.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) successfully helped secure millions in the fiscal year 2019 U.S. House of Representatives “minibus” Appropriations bill, which includes key funding for veterans, water infrastructure projects, and more. A “minibus” is a small group of federal spending bills combined into a single package that funds part of the Federal government. This minibus included three of the 12 appropriations bills - Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, Energy and Water Development, and the Legislative Branch. These bills passed the House and Senate, and are scheduled to move to the President’s desk shortly to be signed into law. Congressman Cuellar secured funding through the FY19 Appropriations bills in several parts: Supporting our Veterans Congressman Cuellar included language and funding in the FY19 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill that will increase access to cemeteries for veterans in rural communities, provide them with increased tele-medicine, and help support homeless veterans throughout his district and along the border. Congressman Cuellar also secured: · $206 million for suicide prevention outreach; · Language to ensure that Joint Military Bases have adequate training facilities and prioritize construction that will increase readiness and diminish impacts on surrounding communities; · Language encouraging the VA to implement programming that would designate a VA liaison to work with local law enforcement to address the unique issues facing veterans returning from combat; and · Language urging VA hospitals to collaborate with Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs). Investing in American Infrastructure Congressman Cuellar included funding and language in the FY19 Energy and Water Development bill to support water infrastructure projects such as Mission Reach, Chacon Creek and the Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project (CIP). Mission Reach The Congressman included $25 million dollars in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Thanks to the help of Representatives Cuellar, Hurd, Doggett, Smith, Castro, and other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation, USACE has been slowly paying back the funds which were loaned to them by Bexar County. To date, the project has received $30.8 million in reimbursement. Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project Congressmen Henry Cuellar also helped secure $13 million in federal funding towards the Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project (CIP). CIP is a USACE project to expand the Port’s ship channels, allowing vessels to navigate the channel safely, meeting surging global demand for U.S. produced oil and natural gas. The Port of Corpus Christi is the largest export port of U.S. produced crude oil, and is a major export hub for U.S. energy products. Additional provisions secured include: · $20 million for Minority Serving Institutions Partnerships Program ($200,000 increase from FY18); · Language encouraging investments in Falcon and Amistad Dams; · Language encouraging FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) to determine ways to incentivize energy companies to invest in cybersecurity infrastructure; · Language for Minority Serving Institutions Partnerships Program, which is designed to bring heightened awareness of STEM fields to Minority Serving Institutions; · Language that increases efficiency and transparency of federal agencies; · Language that improves cybersecurity for the electricity grid; · Language encouraging development of natural gas technologies that are more efficient and environmentally sound; · Language directing the Department of Energy (DOE) to report on its efforts to alleviate poverty; · Language encouraging the DOE to partner with HSIs; and · Language encouraging DOE to explore research and development opportunities to enhance our natural gas storage systems. Supporting Higher Education Congressman Cuellar’s language in the FY19 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill calls on various federal agencies, including the Library of Congress (LOC), to increase cooperative partnerships, fellowship opportunities and curriculum program associations with community colleges, Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and other minority serving institutions. Streamlining the Federal Government In addition, he helped secured over $125 million for salaries and expenses of the Congressional Research Service (CRS), a $6 million increase from FY18, to help conduct research and analysis for Congress on a broad range of national policy issues. He also included language that directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to produce a report to Congress identifying duplicative programs throughout the Federal government. “My constituents rely on federal dollars to help fund key programs in my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I fought hard to secure funding through the appropriations process, so that we are able to provide necessary assistance to people throughout Texas. “The benefit that this funding will have on the district will expand into each community that I proudly represent. This money will provide veterans, who have devoted their lives to protecting our country, with the resources they need to succeed and thrive after returning to civilian life. It will also ensure that rural areas across South Texas have access to clean water and sanitary living conditions to lead healthy and fulfilling lives. In addition to these resources, it will save hard-earned, taxpayer dollars by increasing efficiency and transparency at our federal agencies. These bills will encourage federal agencies to partner with minority serving institutions, typically underrepresented communities back home, so that individuals will get the education they need to compete in a 21st-century, competitive job market. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I look forward to the signing of this bill into law by the president. I will continue to work on the Appropriations Committee so that the people in the 28th district get the assistance and funding they need.” Read a summary of the bills here. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the House Floor here. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks on the House Floor on the FY19 “Minibus” Appropriations bills on Thursday in Washington.
10.18.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $2,875,000 in federal funding for Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN) Inc., awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) through their Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) grant program. This award consists of two separate grants including $375,000 for the Webb County Mental Health Awareness Training Project, that provides behavioral and health treatment, primary care and recovery support services for homeless adults with mental illness. A separate grant of $2,500,000 will be awarded to SCAN’s Hogar Para Todos (HOGAR) Project, that provides training for first responders, education law enforcement and health professionals on how to appropriately and safely respond to individuals with mental disorders. Both programs seek to assist the most vulnerable members of the community by providing mental health services and housing for those most in need. Webb County Mental Health Awareness Training Project Congressman Cuellar announced $375,000 of SAMHSA funding will go towards SCAN’s Mental Health Awareness Training Project. This grant will allow SCAN, Inc. to provide training to the local population, giving them the skills necessary to help those who are experiencing a mental health crisis in the community. Veterans, armed services members and their families, emergency first responders, educators and other school personnel, law enforcement, and health professionals will be trained to identify persons with mental disorders and educated on various resources available in the community for individuals struggling with mental health disorders. Through this program, SCAN, Inc. will train 750 individuals annually, resulting in 2,250 trained professionals over the course of the project’s 3-year span. Hogar Para Todos (HOGAR) Project The Congressman additionally announced that SCAN’s Hogar Para Todos (HOGAR) Project will receive $2,500,000 in federal funding. This grant will allow SCAN, Inc. to provide health, housing, and other services to meet the needs of adults with serious mental illnesses or co-occurring disorders who are experiencing homelessness. Specifically, the project will provide: · Community outreach and screening; · Counseling and support groups; · Case management; · Peer recovery services; · Mental health counseling and psychiatric care; · Substance abuse and trauma treatment; · Sustainable housing; and · Assistance with primary care treatment. The project will benefit 300 homeless members of Webb County, over the course of a 5-year period. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar helped secure this funding through the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bill. “SCAN, Inc. continues its tremendous service to our community by providing services and treatment to those who need it most,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I believe in its mission of making sure that every person is presented with the opportunity to lead healthy, fulfilling lives. Today’s funding reflects this important goal: it provides millions for services to help those currently battling mental illnesses or co-occurring disorders, including funding for health training and education. It will also help address homelessness in the community, by providing health, housing, and other care to those struggling with mental health disorders.” “SCAN, Inc. is very excited about being awarded two SAMHSA grants to expand and enhance services in our community,” said Isela Dabdoub, SCAN, Inc. CEO. “One grant will be implemented to provide behavioral health treatment, primary care and recovery support services, for homeless adults with a serious mental illnesses or co-occurring disorders. The second grant will provide training for first responders, educators, law enforcement and health professionals on how to appropriately and safely respond to individuals with mental disorders.” Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) presents SCAN Inc. with HHS SAMHSA Grants on Thursday in Laredo. Pictured from left are Congressman Henry Cuellar, SCAN Mental Health Awareness Program Trainer Sandra Contreras, SCAN Vice President Dr. Christopher Craddock, SCAN Executive Vice President Luis Flores, SCAN CEO Isela Dabdoub, and SCAN Program Director Enrique Manrique.
10.17.2018	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), McMullen County officials and Atascosa Health Center representatives participated in the grand opening of an additional building for behavioral health services at the McMullen Community Health Center, in partnership with Atascosa Health Center, Camino Real Community Services, and McMullen County Judge James Teal. The McMullen Community Health Center is a satellite clinic of the Atascosa Health Center, Inc. and is conveniently located to serve the residents of McMullen County. This is the first behavioral health services facility in the area and will greatly improve access to affordable behavioral health to the county’s residents, making the community a healthier and safer place to live. Across Texas, the majority of Community Health Center patients are uninsured and live in underrepresented and underserved areas. In the 28th District alone, community health centers served over 140,000 patients and generated upwards of 1,500 jobs in 2016. To help support community health, Congressman Cuellar worked on the Appropriations Committee to help secure $1.625 billion for Community Health Centers in the FY19 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. Providing Behavioral Health Services to McMullen Community McMullen County has a population of 804 individuals, with 5% of the population identified as mentally ill, and is designated as a Healthcare Professional Shortage Area. Over 18% of the population in McMullen lacks health insurance coverage, which creates barriers to accessing appropriate mental health treatment. Due to the fact that there is no public transportation system in the county, access to services is a significant barrier. Low population density also impacts the delivery of services, as behavioral healthcare providers must travel greater distances to provide much-needed services. McMullen Behavioral Health Clinic Objectives In 2017, Atascosa Health Center served over 15,000 patients with over 52,000 visits. This new building will provide necessary behavioral health services to help benefit the people of McMullen County. In partnership with Camino Real Community Services (CRCS), the center will provide outpatient mental health services to adults with severe and persistent mental illness. Specifically, objectives of the new center include: Integrated Care Staff will hold 1 community engagement activity related to wellness per month; Enroll a minimum of 3 individuals into the Integrated Primary and Behavioral Health Care Project monthly; Behavioral Health Consultant will provide counseling services to identified individuals seeking mental health assistance; and Integrated Care Staff will provide health care navigation and case management services to individuals referred by self, school, FQHC, law enforcement, and judge to ensure that mental health/substance use assessments are completed and proper referrals are made. To achieve these goals, staff will work on program activities, such as: Promoting health literacy, adherence to medication and other treatments, recovery in the community; and continuity of care; Improving access to medical and dental care; Individual and group counseling to improve medical, behavioral, and social compliance; and Case management/rehab services to include education on mental illness; self-monitoring and medication administration; and community linkage to support services. Increasing access to medical care is a top priority for me, so I know the opening of the behavioral health clinic will only strengthen this area,” Congressman Cuellar said. “McMullen and Atascosa counties suffer from a lack of necessary medical facilities and health care providers, so any way we can close this gap is another step closer to a healthier, happier and more productive citizenry. I would like to thank Monty Small, CEO of the Atascosa Health Center, Camino Real Community Services and Judge Teal for working so hard to make these facilities a reality.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) attends grand opening of the Behavioral Health Clinic at the McMullen Community Health Center in Tilden on Monday. Pictured from left to right: Congressman Henry Cuellar, PA-C Angela R. Karsky, McMullen Community Health Center Practice Manager Brenda Salazar, Atascosa Health Center, Inc. CEO Monty Small, Camino Real Community Services Executive Director Emma Garcia, Camino Real Integrated Health Program Manager John Koenig, Camino Real LPC Mary Rivera, Camino Real QMHP-CS Nancy Moreno, and McMullen County Judge James Teal.
10.17.2018	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $622,400 in federal funding for Atascosa Health Center, Inc. (AHC). This award consists of two separate grants from Health and Human Services’ (HHS). Specifically, the Atascosa Health Center will receive $285,000 through the HHS Health Center Cluster Program and $337,400 through the HHS Capital Assistance for Hurricane Response and Recovery Efforts (CARE) Program. These programs will continue to provide funding assisting health centers impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria and to support the delivery of comprehensive, affordable, quality primary health care services to communities and vulnerable populations in the 28th district. The Atascosa Health Center, Inc. is a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQCH) that offers a broad range of health services to more than 12,000 patients annually across Atascosa, Karnes, Wilson, Live Oak, and McMullen counties. AHC has a network of six rural clinics which provide services regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. The center is committed to serving all patients without regard to race, sex, age, color, religion, national origin, disability or ability to pay for services. “Increasing access to medical care is a top priority for me,” said Congressman Cuellar. “McMullen and Atascosa counties suffer from a lack of necessary medical facilities and health care providers, so any way we can close this gap is another step closer to a healthier, happier and more productive citizenry. This award will continue to ensure that underserved rural communities in Atascosa County receive critical healthcare.” Congressman Cuellar added, “ I would like to thank Monty Small, CEO of the Atascosa Health Center, and his staff for working to make these facilities a reality. I also want to thank the City of Pleasanton and the City of Karnes for engaging in this critical mission.” AHC CEO Monty Small said, “The Atascosa Health Center, Inc. covers five counties, including approximately 5,000 square miles in south central Texas through our six delivery sites. In 2017, AHC served more than 15,000 patients with more than 52,000 visits. If we saw a 70% reduction in funding, we would be forced to downsize our medical, dental, and behavioral health staff drastically, which means many of our patients would lose access to primary health care and end up in our Hospital Emergency Rooms. Congressman Cuellar has always been a champion for Community Health Centers and has always done what is best for Community Health Centers. We are thankful for his efforts in serving our community and helping us secure this funding to continue serving our communities.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announces $622,400 for Atascosa Health Center, Inc. in Pleasanton on Monday. Pictured from left to right: Atascosa Health Center, Inc. CEO Monty Small, Mayor of Pleasanton Travis Hall, Director of Behavior Health LCSW Dr. Noel Laurel, Board Member Virginia Herring, Mayor of Karnes City Leroy Skloss Medical Director Dr. Rayford Mitchell, Board Member Dwayne Villanueva, Board Member Lillian Cashmer, CFO Maria Garcia, Board Member Luana Newman-Leus, and Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.17.2018	On Monday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $566,157 in federal funds for the Converse Fire & EMS Department from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This federal award comes through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Program. This program will directly provide the fire department and EMS the funding to hire six additional front line firefighters and provide them with more benefits and a safer work environment. Program Specifics The goal of SAFER is to enhance the local fire departments' abilities to comply with staffing, response and operational standards established by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). Over the course of three years, the federal grant will cover 60 percent of the salary and benefits of six new full-time firefighters, while the city covers the other 40 percent. Increasing Firefighter Hiring and Retention in Converse After the recent annexation of a new subdivision, the City of Converse’s population has increased by approximately 3,500 to an estimated 25,500 residents. The SAFER grant will increase the number of firefighters on full-time staff. Specifically, the Converse Fire and EMS Department will use this funding to hire six additional firefighters. The new firefighters will improve the staffing and deployment capabilities of the fire department, allow for more effective response to emergencies, and ensure that the community has ample protection from fire and fire-related hazards. These additional hires will: · Minimize current firefighters working excessive hours due to overtime; · Decrease the probability of job injuries due to fatigue; · Cover a competitive base salary; and · Create robust benefits packages With the expanded coverage of the department, these funds will provide immediate benefits. The award will help relieve the burden on the City of Converse to provide the majority of funding to service the overall community. Congressman Cuellar said, “This award represents $566,157 in federal funding, with additional local cost-share funding bringing the total award to $918,090. This cooperative effort will provide for the department over the next three years. It will ensure that the Converse Fire & EMS Department will be able to hire staff to accommodate the city’s growing population and increase the safety of its citizens. I would like to thank the City of Converse, Mayor Al Suarez, Fire Chief Luis Valdez and the Converse Fire & EMS Department for engaging in this critical mission.” City of Converse Mayor Al Suarez said, “The City of Converse is currently experiencing explosive growth and has increased its population by 37% since the last census in 2010. The SAFER grant will assist us to provide the best Emergency Fire & EMS services possible to the City of Converse, Emergency Services District 1, and Northeast Metrocom Mutual Aid support. Our sincere thanks to Congressman Henry Cuellar for his proactive assistance.” “We are very thankful to receive this funding to expand the services of the fire department to better our response time to emergencies in our community,” said City of Converse Fire Department Chief Luis Valdez. “This funding will not only allow us to hire more front line firefighters, but it will also provide them with a safer work environment. We thank Congressman Cuellar for his continuous support to the Converse Fire Department, as well as FEMA, the Mayor, and the City for their efforts in this important matter.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announces $566,157 for Converse Fire & EMS Department in Converse on Monday. Pictured front row from left to right: Fire Chief Luis Valdez, Councilman Jeff Beehler, Stella Calvillo, Mayor Al Suarez, City Manager Le Ann Piatt, Congressman Henry Cuellar Back row, left to right: Assistant Chief Ray Christian, Councilwoman Nancy Droneburg, Councilwoman Shawn Russell, and behind is Councilman Marc Gilbert
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will be accepting applications for its 2019 Honors Internship Program. The 10-week program runs from June 10th to August 16th and is a great opportunity for students to work with special agents, intelligence analysts, and professional staff. Interns that participate in this paid internship gain valuable career experience and many use the program to springboard to an FBI career. “Experiences like these during collegiate years are what shape lives and career paths,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Internship programs provide opportunities to network and gain leadership skills. I strongly encourage students who are interested in this field to take this opportunity to complement their education with hands-on experience.” The program offers paid internship positions for students in Field Offices across the country as well as in the Headquarters divisions in and around Washington, D.C. To qualify, applicants must: • Have U.S. Citizenship; • Attend a college or university full time as an undergraduate (freshman, sophomore, junior or senior), graduate or post-doctorate student. Students are not eligible if graduating before the program start date; exceptions are permitted to students continuing their education in the semester immediately following; • Have and maintain a 3.0 cumulative grade point average (GPA) or better at the time of application, throughout the application process, and the duration of the internship program; and • Pass all of the FBI employment background investigation requirements and be able to receive a Top-Secret security clearance. The application closes October 14, 2018. Interested students can apply online at: www.fbijobs.gov ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after US, Mexico and Canada reach deal on NAFTA: “I am glad that the Administration and Canada were finally able to come to an agreement on NAFTA. This has reflected what I have said all along— we must solidify a deal that includes Canada, so that we can build upon the successes of NAFTA and strengthen trade relations with both partners. “A deal that would have left either one of them behind would have created uncertain markets and been detrimental to our businesses. This trilateral deal will continue to spur growth and economic development for all three countries, as it has since its inception over two decades ago. I look forward to reviewing the final agreement in Congress and working with the Administration to solidify this deal.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) announced a $929,800 grant awarded by the U.S. Department of Education to South Texas College (STC) through their Child Care Access Means Parents in School (CCAMPIS) Grant program. The college will receive a $232,450.00 yearly grant over the next four years, totaling $929,800.00 in federal funds. The grant was funded through the fiscal year 2018 omnibus appropriation bill, which funds the government for the remainder of the fiscal year. Congressman Cuellar serves on the House Committee on Appropriations, and in FY18 the Committee increased funding for the program by $34 million compared to FY17. This program helps parents from low-income backgrounds attain postsecondary education through campus-based child care service. This includes providing care for fifty children in the fall and spring and forty children in the summer at the Mid-Valley Campus Child Development Center (MVC-CDC). Childcare will be affordable using a sliding fee scale to determine the student’s portion. Students have access to full-time childcare while they attend classes, receive tutoring, participate in quality study time, and attend required advising and or mentoring sessions. STC’s student population reflects Hidalgo County’s demographics and is largely comprised of a first generation, low-income, Hispanic students. STC’s mission is to increase the quality of life for people through education, which includes implementing strategies that meet the needs of Hispanic students. STC works diligently to help students overcome barriers to higher education. This project will focus on removing one of the barriers faced by students in the Rio Grande Valley: childcare, which is identified as one of the top 10 obstacles. Congressmen Cuellar and Gonzalez have worked to help low-income families in the area. Through their continued efforts, they have successfully helped secure this funding, which is a direct investment in the well-being of families in South Texas. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our South Texas communities have unique needs and barriers to valuable educational opportunities. This funding will not only provide quality childcare, but also allow those parents to improve their lives through STC’s educational programs.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I am glad to see the programs we work to defend and fund in the FY18 spending bill benefit the people I represent. I congratulate STC in securing $929,800 in federal funds that will impact the lives of many parents at STC by providing them a with an opportunity to care for their child while they continue to improve their families lives through education. I thank Congressman Gonzalez for his commitment and collaboration on this project. I will continue to work to help secure more funding for programs such as the CCAMPIS program.” “We should be doing all that we can to support and celebrate every student in the Rio Grande Valley,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “This new funding for the CCAMPIS Program will allow South Texas College to continue offering childcare opportunities for Valley residents seeking a higher education. I thank Congressman Cuellar for his continued collaboration to break down barriers for South Texas students.” For more information about this particular grant program click here. To learn more about the Child Development Center click here. ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure $50 million in the fiscal year 2019 “minibus” appropriations bill for biomedical and behavioral research facilities. This funding will allow public, nonprofit and not-for-profit entities to compete for funds that will allow them to expand, remodel and renovate existing research facilities, or build new facilities to meet the demands of the nation’s top biomedical researchers. Monies for these facilities are provided to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for research to find cures and develop treatments to address threats posed by current and emerging infectious diseases. This was successfully included in an appropriations package containing the Defense and Labor, Health, and Human Services Appropriations bills. It passed both chambers and will be sent to the President shortly to be signed into law. Much of the Nation’s biomedical research infrastructure, including laboratories and research facilities at academic institutions and nonprofit research organization, is outdated and is lagging in developing new therapies, vaccines and cures. To help maintain medical research standards and adapt to growing demand, Congressman Cuellar has made it a priority to help secure funding for biomedical research. Texas Biomedical Research Institute Texas Biomedical Research Institute, a premier research facility in San Antonio, is eligible to apply for extramural grants under this new funding, that will provide key funding for biomedical research on chronical and infectious diseases. Texas Biomed partners with hundreds of researchers and institutions around the world, targeting advances in the fight against cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, cancer, psychiatric disorders, problems of pregnancy, AIDS, hepatitis, malaria, parasitic infections and a host of other infectious diseases. They are the only institution in the country with both National Primate Research Center and Biosafety Level 3 and 4 laboratories, where scientists study the deadliest of pathogens. If granted, Texas Biomed would use this funding toward the improvement and development of the Texas Biomed campus. Building and infrastructure projects in the coming years would include a new, central research building, a new translational science building, a new Biosafety Level (BSL) 3 and BSL4 laboratory and advanced animal research facilities. “I would like to thank Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) for his leadership on this matter in the Senate,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The threats posed by current and emerging infectious diseases are real and continue to grow. Texas Biomedical Research Facility is a premier research facility in my district, with great researchers and staff who tackle these types of cases on a daily basis. That is why I worked hard to secure this crucial funding on the appropriations committee, so that research facilities have the necessary resource to discover and share critical breakthroughs that help protect susceptible populations.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I thank Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Committee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro working with me on to secure this funding. I would also like to thank my fellow colleagues, Representatives Will Hurd (TX-23), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Michael McCaul (TX-10), Lamar Smith (TX-21), and John Moolenaar (MI-4) for working with me on this issue in a bipartisan manner.” “The development and support of infrastructure for scientific research is a critical need in our country, as is the overall demand to fund biomedical research,” said Texas Biomed President/CEO Larry S. Schlesinger, MD. “This funding provided by Congress for biomedical research facility modernization and construction creates an excellent opportunity for Institutions like Texas Biomed to compete for grants that will facilitate our continued growth and the development of life-saving, scientific discoveries. We are grateful for the strong bipartisan support of bioscience in our community by our Texas congressional delegation. Senator John Cornyn, Representative Henry Cuellar and Representative Will Hurd were instrumental in the promotion and procurement of these funds, and we are pleased for their strong championing of science and Texas Biomed.” ###
09.25.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $6 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to VIA Metropolitan Transit to improve bus infrastructure and operations in San Antonio. Grants through this program are intended to replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment and construct bus-related facilities. VIA Metropolitan Transit will use this funding to construct an operating and maintenance paratransit facility through DOT’s Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program for fiscal year 2018. The Congressman helped secure an increase by 76%, or $161 million, through the FY18 Consolidated Appropriations Act. In addition, the FY17 Bus and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program funded 139 projects to 52 states and territories, totaling nearly $264.5 million. Improving Paratransit Operations Currently, VIA’s bus and van operating and maintenance facility is the largest transit agency in the United States, operating both bus and paratransit fleets out of one single yard. As the region experiences an increasing number of individuals who rely on paratransit, it is imperative that they continue to keep up with demand. Specifically, the purpose of the new paratransit facility is to provide the space needed to combine all of VIA’s paratransit van operations and maintenance functions to accommodate their bus and van fleet expansion. Consolidating paratransit operations and maintenance functions in one location will greatly improve VIA’s operational efficiencies by including the following features: On-site parking for up to 175 vans; and Fully functioning maintenance facility, administrative offices, and security features that are in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Buses and Bus Facilities Infrastructure Investment Program Transit buses account for more than five billion passenger trips every year, providing vital connections to jobs and economic opportunities. Congressman Cuellar, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has continually supported this program, which designates that ten percent of all awards – $36.6 million in FY18 – go to rural bus needs in regions like South Texas. The Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) received $7 million in funding through this program, which is intended to be used to replace rural transit fleets. “Proper infrastructure and transportation are vital to the growth of San Antonio,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I have been working with my colleagues in the San Antonio Delegation, along with the City of San Antonio and VIA representatives, to ensure that federal funding reaches this much needed project, making vast improvements to our paratransit operations.” Congressman Cuellar added, “This funding will help ensure that constituents have access to reliable and affordable public transportation, benefiting the entire community. I thank the San Antonio Delegation including Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Will Hurd (TX-23), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, and VIA Metropolitan Transit for their dedication on this issue.” Jeffrey C. Arndt, President/CEO VIA Metropolitan Transit said, "As our region grows, adding about 150 new people each day, VIA is planning for a fast-moving future while addressing the mobility needs of today. This award puts us a step closer to providing more efficient and effective service, particularly for our paratransit customers— the fastest-growing ridership segment in the communities we serve. We are grateful to our partners, and elected leaders, whose shared vision and support are driving VIA's commitment to innovation and a more mobile future."
09.21.2018	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) announced an award of over $2 million in federal funding to the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV). This funding will create a professional development project to improve the teaching and learning of current and historical understandings of American history, civics, government and geography in Hidalgo County. The U.S. Department of Education awarded this funding through the American History and Civics Academies Program, which is expected to support the project for a three-year period beginning in October, 2018. The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) serves the residents of one of the most economically distressed regions in the country. Congressman Cuellar believes that access to education is a fundamental necessity to achieve improved economic performance in South Texas. In partnership with various school districts, UTRGV will utilize these funds to help support professional development and increase community knowledge of American history in the area. By establishing workshops for both veteran and new teachers of American history and civics in the community, the program will improve the quality of classes for students, grades K-12, so that they may develop a broader and deeper understanding of these subjects. Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning The educational initiative will improve the quality of current and historical American history, civics, government and geography curriculums and teaching strategies in the Valley. Specifically, the project will: Train approximately 75 K-12 teachers to utilize instruction approaches which will effectively educate South Texas students on a variety of critical subjects; Build an open access digital archive, through the Historias Americanas Digital Platform, containing teaching materials, curricula and digital tools which will promote student engagement and align their curriculum with college and career readiness standards; and Improve student academic achievement, particularly among English Language Learners (ELLs), by targeting the Texas Essential Knowledge Skills (TEKS) social studies process standards which will improve critical thinking, writing, and communication skills through place-based teaching and learning. Yielding Results for Teachers and Students This program is expected to yield lasting results for both teachers and students in Hidalgo County. The project is expected to improve the quality of teaching and learning by: Improving teacher understanding and mastery of the relationship between the local, national, and global historical narratives; Improving student engagement and comprehension through culturally and linguistically relevant materials; and Improving teacher leadership skills; teachers will, in turn, share these development strategies with their colleagues. “An investment in our educators and students is an investment in our future,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why we should seize every opportunity to improve teacher leadership skills as well as student engagement and comprehension. This funding will ensure that UTRGV will have the resources it needs to increase teacher content knowledge of American history and civics, which will help increase professional development, higher education access, and community knowledge in Hidalgo County.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank UTRGV President Guy Bailey, along with faculty and staff, for their dedication in advancing American history and civics in our classrooms.” "Every student in the 15th District of Texas deserves equal access to quality education," Congressman Gonzalez said. "With an improved knowledge of our history, students and teachers alike will be better equipped to tackle the issues of today, and create a better outlook for the Americans of tomorrow." To read more about the Academies for American History and Civics Program, please click here.
09.20.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement on working to protect Agricultural workers through the Ag and Legal Workforce Act: “My parents were migrant workers and worked in the agricultural fields. I appreciate the hard work these jobs require and I will always work to protect laborers’ rights. Through my work on the Appropriations Committee, I helped secure provisions that ensure the USDA (U.S. Department of Agriculture) work with agricultural laborers when implementing its worker protection standards (language).” “U.S. Agriculture is at a crisis point and faces a critical labor shortage. Instability in the agricultural workforce places domestic food production and the U.S. economy at risk. I am a co-sponsor of the Ag and Legal Workforce Act because I strongly believe securing a reliable and competent agriculture workforce is crucial to agriculture, our economy, and our national food security.” Ensuring Greatest Pay for Ag Laborers “The claim that the Ag and Legal Workforce Act will decrease wages by $3 per hour across Texas is false. Today, most H-2A laborers receive $11.87 per hour in Texas. This legislation would require employers to pay agricultural guest workers the greatest of the following: ‘‘(i) the applicable State or local minimum wage; (ii) 115 percent of the Federal minimum wage; (iii) the actual wage level paid by the employer to all other individuals in the job.” In other words, the greatest of these options is the minimum that an employer must pay; if an employer wants to pay its employees more, it may do so. There would be no three dollar cut, as some people are claiming. This means that workers making $11.87 per hour wages today will continue to make that amount, and new H-2C workers will be entitled to earn the same, provided they are working the same job. As a Representative, I remain committed to finding bipartisan measures and am open to any additional legislative language to address this issue.” Putting American Workers First “We need to put American workers first. The guest worker program under this bill requires that an employer seek American workers before hiring foreign labor. By addressing the shortage of workers in the agricultural industry we will help people, in Texas and across the nation, offer improvements to the existing H-2A guestworker program.” Providing Legal Status and Protection for Undocumented Workers “I also want to emphasize that as many as 7 in 10 farm workers are undocumented, according to the American Farm Bureau Federation. Undocumented status makes these workers especially vulnerable to abuse and maltreatment as some unscrupulous employers threaten deportation if workers advocate for better working conditions or fair pay. The Ag and Legal Workforce Act will provide legal status for many of these undocumented workers, offering a multitude of protections, such as a minimum wage rate, the ability to choose their agricultural employer, and recourse in the case of unfair labor practices.”
09.18.2018	LAREDO— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined representatives and the City of Laredo Health Department in announcing $500,000 in federal funding for People with Ideas of Love, Liberty, Acceptance and Respect (PILLAR) aimed at decreasing community HIV risk-factors, providing testing to residents and treating those living with HIV. $250,000 will go towards staff retention and expansion, and the other $250,000 will enhance direct treatment services. The widespread impact from this funding will also benefit the 68 community partners which PILLAR maintains. This award represents the fifth consecutive year that PILLAR and the City of Laredo have been awarded HHS funding through their partnership. Including the grant award announced today, a total of $2.5 million has been awarded through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) grant program. People with Ideas of Love, Liberty, Acceptance and Respect (PILLAR) PILLAR, is a non-profit mental health care and outreach center, provides a safe, nurturing and non-discriminatory environment where people experiencing emotional or physical trauma or victimization can seek supportive services to reduce the negative impact of these circumstances. PILLAR’s funding project focuses on high risk populations including racial/ethnic minority populations, such as Black and Latino gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals who are HIV positive or at risk for HIV/AIDS. Funding from the SAMHSA Grant Program will provide PILLAR with: · Increased staff levels and expertise; · Upgraded testing equipment; · Improved staff resources; · Enhanced informational and research access; · Increased electronic medical record storage; · Improved generation of analytical data; and · Continue to ensure all these services are provided for free. Directly Impacting Webb County There are approximately 81,873 people living with HIV in Texas, 412 of those in Webb County. And according to HHS Texas, in 2016 alone, 4,493 Texans were diagnosed with the infection. PILLAR has proven to be a crucial source of preventative treatment and post-diagnosis care. Over the last year, they have conducted 6,205 HIV tests in Laredo. In doing so, PILLAR has targeted the county’s most at-risk residents. This funding will have a direct impact on the number of affected individuals in Webb County by: · Reducing the impact of behavioral health problems; · Reducing HIV risk and incidence; · Reducing trauma related conditions; · Increasing access to treatment; and · Increasing retention in treatment. “PILLAR continues its tremendous service to our community by providing prevention services for at-risk populations and treatment for those who are currently battling co-existing behavioral health and health-related issues,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Their ability to keep individuals who have tested positive in treatment has risen to an impressive 96% rate of retention. Additionally, they have 36,750 students engaged in discussions regarding the risks related to HIV. This grant award will continue to build upon these successes and ensure that our community benefits from their effective efforts of increasing HIV awareness, combating risk factors where possible and providing treatment when necessary.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank PILLAR representatives, the City of Laredo Health Department and community partners for joining today in promoting the great work and services provided by PILLAR. Today’s funds are an investment in the well-being of our citizens and gives hope for so many in our community.” PILLAR Co-Founder Arturo Diaz said, “With the assistance of Honorable Congress Henry Cuellar, PILLAR is honored to receive a 2.5 million grant for the next 5 years. These funds will help us expand treatment, promote recovery and improve quality of life for people that are high risk or are HIV positive and have mental and/or substance health issues.” “The City of Laredo Health Department is delighted to partner with PILLAR in the great opportunity from SAMHSA,” said Hector Gonzalez, Director of Health at the City of Laredo Health Department. “It will allow us to continue our work on Primary Care and Behavioral Health integration. This is so important as many people are suffering from behavioral health but aren’t being diagnosed. Through this project we can provide medical and preventive care and screen for behavioral health, this build on our efforts to improve wellness through both physical and behavioral health services. Persons can come into a community based organization and get quality early intervention comprehensive medical and social services care.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) presents a $500,000 grant for PILLAR on Tuesday in Laredo. Pictured from left to right: Congressman Henry Cuellar, Director of the City of Laredo Health Department Dr. Hector Gonzalez, PILLAR Clinical Consultant Jesse Hernandez, PILLAR Co-Founder Manuel Sanchez, PILLAR Board Member Kerrisa Vela, PILLAR Chair Gerardo Sanchez, PILLAR Board Member Terrie Martinez, PILLAR Board Member Connie Madrigal, PILLAR Co-founder Arturo Diaz. ###
09.15.2018	LAREDO –Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement following the arrest a Border Patrol agent suspected of killing four in Laredo: "The arrest of the border patrol agent who has allegedly committed multiple murders could not have happened without the hard work and expertise of the Texas Rangers, the Webb County Sheriff's Office, the Webb County District Attorney's Office, and Laredo Police Department. Having just spoken with Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, there is no doubt in my mind that the heroic efforts of these four agencies have saved lives; they are to be commended. Establishing and maintaining high standards for Border Patrol agents is a top priority for my office. We have advocated for and implemented new standards during the hiring process as well as new standards of professionalism after joining Border Patrol. Just this afternoon I spoke with CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan to talk about the situation in Laredo. We have agreed to work together on the hiring and professionalism of border patrol agents. We spoke about how more steps need to be taken to make certain that people who want to become Border Patrol agents receive the appropriate psychological screening to ensure that no person who is capable of these type of actions is allowed to join or remain in the ranks. We also spoke about hiring more Professional Responsibility officers so that they can police their own. The commissioner assured me that we will continue to work together to address these issues. I also intend to speak with the General Inspector of DHS who is working on this matter, to express my concern that this is the second case this year involving a border patrol agent who has killed someone in Laredo. I also intend to talk to the VA about the particular facts of this Border Patrol agent who was a veteran. As a member of the House Appropriations subcommittee for Homeland Security, I will be asking my colleagues to help me secure additional resources to address the above issues. Border Patrol agents are great men and women who work hard to keep us safe, and we thank them for their work. However, this is the second instance this year involving a Border Patrol agent killing someone in Laredo. We will continue to monitor this situation to see how we can provide any additional resources to DHS. I extend my condolences to the families of the victims during this difficult time.” ###
09.14.2018	Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced an additional $25 million in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project in the fiscal year 2019 “minibus” Appropriations Bill package, which includes the Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch funding bills. This package of bills will be voted on today. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. USACE has been slowly paying back the funds thanks to the help of Representatives Cuellar, Hurd, and other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation. To date, the project has received $30.8 million in reimbursement. Under this bill, the project is expected to receive an additional $25 million, provided that the USACE continues to prioritize this funding through their FY19 Work Plan. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur, for their assistance in including this language, along with Senator Cornyn and the San Antonio Delegation – Reps. Will Hurd, Lamar Smith, Joaquin Castro, and Lloyd Doggett— for their help in repaying these Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I would also like to recognize the San Antonio River Authority for their tireless work on this important project.” “The Mission Reach project has been a huge success and undoubtedly benefited the entire San Antonio and Bexar County community. It is time for Bexar County to be reimbursed in full for the loan it provided to the Corps so it can reinvest these funds into other important projects to benefit our citizens. I’m glad to see the Committee on Appropriations embrace this effort and include language in this year’s bill.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight-mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.” See video of Congressman Cuellar speaking on the House floor here.
09.14.2018	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Michael Cloud (TX-27) announced $13 million in federal funding towards the Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project (CIP), which they voted to secure in a FY19 “minibus” Appropriations package, which includes the Energy and Water, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations bills. The package of bills passed the House and Senate, and will be sent to the President’s desk shortly. The Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project is a USACE project to expand the Port’s ship channels, allowing vessels to navigate the channel safely, meeting surging global demand for U.S. produced oil and natural gas. The Port of Corpus Christi is the largest export port of U.S. produced crude oil, and is a major export hub for U.S. energy products. Earlier this year, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers included $23 million for the project in its FY18 Work Plan. This funds the second of six contracts and extends the project construction from the entrance in the Gulf of Mexico to Redfish Bay. Anticipated completion of the entire Channel Improvement Project is projected for 2021-2022 and is estimated to increase exports of U.S. produced energy by nearly $40 billion while increasing the fluidity and safety of vessel traffic. Texas is the leading oil-producing state and the number three producer of oil in the world, producing more than one-third of the nation’s crude oil due in large part to reserves in the Permian and Eagle Ford basins. The state is on track to produce more oil than either Iran or Iraq. The 28th District of Texas includes a large portion of the Eagle Ford Shale reserves, one of the most productive natural gas fields in the country. With the Eagle Ford Shale being such an economic boon for South Texas, Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority to promote energy independence as well as facilitate international trade. In 2015, he worked in a bipartisan manner with Representative Joe Barton (TX-6) to lift the ban on crude oil export which created jobs, increased U.S. oil production, lowered gasoline prices and strengthened national security. “This funding is an undeniable investment for energy companies in the U.S. and will significantly increase export capacity at the Port of Corpus Christi,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Money will be used to deepen and widen this critical export channel and directly impact the American economy by expanding U.S. energy exports abroad and solidifying our place as a leader in global energy.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my Appropriations Committee Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey, and Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Kaptur, helping include this funding in the Appropriations Committee. I would also like to thank Representative Cloud and my fellow colleagues from the Texas Congressional Delegation for their assistance bringing these funds back to the Port, and the Port of Corpus Christi for their work in helping our energy companies meet growing demand.” “Deepening and widening the Port of Corpus Christi is vital for making sure we are able to export our Texas oil and gas,” said Congressman Michael Cloud. “This port project is critical to expanding our energy exports, reducing our nation’s trade deficit, ensuring our allies have access to American oil and gas, and creating more jobs here at home.” “The Port of Corpus Christi is extremely pleased that funding for our Corpus Christi Ship Channel Improvement Project has been appropriated in the FY2019 Minibus Funding Bill. This is a watershed moment, as $13 million in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers civil works budget is now available to begin construction on this infrastructure expansion project, which is critical to meeting the demands of the rapidly growing energy market,” said Sean Strawbridge, Chief Executive Officer for the Port of Corpus Christi. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the House Floor here. About Port Corpus Christi As the leading U.S. Crude Oil export port and a major economic engine of Texas and the nation, Port Corpus Christi is the 4th largest port in the United States in total tonnage. Strategically located on the western Gulf of Mexico with a 36 mile, 47 foot (MLLW) deep channel, Port Corpus Christi is a major gateway to international and domestic maritime commerce. The Port has excellent railroad and highway network connectivity via three North American Class-1 railroads and two major interstate highways. With an outstanding staff overseen by its seven member commission, Port Corpus Christi is “Moving America’s Energy.” http://www.portcorpuschristi.com/
09.10.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and representatives from Laredo College announced Laredo College was recently recognized as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Security. The goal of the National Centers of Excellence is to reduce the vulnerability of our nation’s information infrastructure by promoting higher education and research in cyber defense, and by prioritizing the development of professionals with this expertise. Laredo College was recently designated as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Defense Education institution by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the National Security Agency (NSA). The college has undergone an in-depth and rigorous academic program review making it one of only seven two-year schools in Texas, and one of only 78 two-year schools nation-wide to receive this prestigious designation. The National Security Council has stated that cyber-attacks have become “one of the most serious economic and national security threats our nation faces.” However, industries in the 28th District of Texas and across the nation are faced with shortages of cyber professionals. The U.S. currently has a shortage of roughly 300,000 Cyber Defense specialists. This makes it increasingly difficult for communities to keep up with the cyber security demand. With this in mind, Congressman Cuellar helped pass the 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill which provided $1.9 billion for Cybersecurity and Protection of Communications to combat increasingly dangerous and numerous cyber-attacks. Congressman Cuellar has also called for additional Cybersecurity Strategic Research and Development plans to strengthen cybersecurity education and training programs to secure an adequate, well-trained workforce. “With new technological advances being made every day, so are attacks and repeated intrusions to America’s critical infrastructure,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This underscores the need for improved cybersecurity and the workforce to counter these dangers. That’s why programs such as the Network and Cyber Security Program here at Laredo College, and the faculty who devote their expertise to this field, are so critical.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to congratulate Laredo College President Dr. Ricardo Solis, Vice President Dr. Vincent Solis, and the Board of Trustees for this incredible accomplishment and wish them continued success with all of their future academic endeavors.” Department Chair of the Computer Technology Department of Laredo College Mr. Robert Moore said, “We are honored to have Laredo College and our Network & Cybersecurity program recognized for excellence in cyber defense. We now belong to an elite NSA/DHS consortium of over 265 collegiate programs that have received this designation. We will proudly and diligently contribute to the goals and mission of the organization in producing an effective national cybersecurity workforce.” President of Laredo College Dr. Ricardo Solis added, “Not only do we provide high caliber academic cybersecurity programs through our Computer Technology Department, we also provide short-term industry recognized cybersecurity analyst certifications through our Laredo College Economic Development Center.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and the computer technology department team from Laredo College announced Laredo College was recently recognized as a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Security. Pictured from left to right: Mr. Abdul Mohamed, Nestor Seratto, Ana Proa, Enrique Garcia, Raymundo Fuentes, Department Chair Robert Moore, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Laredo College President Dr. Ricardo Solis, Dr. Rodney Rodriguez, Tekuani Perez, and Hassan Escamilla.
09.10.2018	Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) y representantes del Laredo College anunciaron que Laredo College fue recientemente reconocido como Centro Nacional de Excelencia Académica en Seguridad Cibernética. El objetivo de los Centros Nacionales de Excelencia es reducir la vulnerabilidad de la infraestructura de información de nuestro país al promover la educación superior y la investigación en ciberdefensa, y priorizando el desarrollo de profesionales en este ámbito. Laredo College fue designado recientemente como un Centro Nacional de Excelencia Académica de Educación de Defensa Cibernética por el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) y la Agencia de Seguridad Nacional (NSA). La institución ha sido sometida a una rigurosa y profunda revisión del programa académico por lo que uno de solo siete escuelas de dos años en Texas, y uno de solo 78 escuelas de dos años en todo el país reciben esta prestigiosa designación. El Consejo de Seguridad Nacional ha declarado que los ciberataques se han convertido en "una de las amenazas más serias de seguridad económica y nacional que enfrenta nuestra nación." Sin embargo, las industrias en el Distrito 28 de Texas y en todo el país enfrentan escasez de profesionales cibernéticos. Los Estados Unidos sufre una escasez de aproximadamente 300,000 especialistas en defensa cibernética. Esto hace que sea cada vez más difícil para las comunidades mantenerse al día con la demanda de seguridad cibernética. Con esto en mente, el Congresista Cuellar ayudó a aprobar el proyecto de ley Omnibus Appropriations de 2018 que proporcionó $1.9 mil millones de dólares para la Seguridad y Protección de Comunicaciones Cibernéticas para combatir ataques cibernéticos cada vez más peligrosos y numerosos. El Congresista Cuellar también ha pedido planes adicionales de Investigación y Desarrollo Estratégico de Ciberseguridad para fortalecer los programas de educación y capacitación en seguridad cibernética para asegurar una fuerza laboral adecuada y bien capacitada. "Día a día se llevan a cabo nuevos avances tecnológicos, y también nuevos avances en los ataques y las intrusiones repetidas a la infraestructura de los Estados Unidos," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Esto acentúa la necesidad de mejorar la ciberseguridad y la fuerza laboral para contrarrestar estos peligros. Es por eso que los programas tales como el Programa de Red y Seguridad Cibernética aquí en Laredo College, y los profesores y miembros de la facultad que dedican su experiencia a este campo son tan críticos." El Congresista Cuéllar continuó: "Me gustaría felicitar al Dr. Ricardo Solís, Presidente de Laredo College, al Vicepresidente Dr. Vicente Solís y a la Junta de Fideicomisarios por este increíble logro y les deseo éxito con todos sus esfuerzos académicos en el futuro." El Sr. Robert Moore, presidente del Departamento de Tecnología Informática de Laredo College dijo, "Nos sentimos honrados de reconocer a Laredo College y a nuestro programa de Redes y Ciberseguridad por su excelencia en defensa cibernética. Ahora pertenecemos a un consorcio élite de la NSA / DHS de más de 265 programas universitarios que han recibido esta designación. Contribuiremos orgullosa y diligentemente a los objetivos y la misión de la organización en la producción de una fuerza laboral de ciberseguridad nacional efectiva." El Presidente de Laredo College, Dr. Ricardo Solís, agregó: "No solo proporcionamos programas de ciberseguridad académica de alto calibre a través de nuestro Departamento de Tecnología Informática, sino que también proporcionamos certificaciones de analistas de seguridad cibernética a corto plazo a través de nuestro Centro de Desarrollo Económico de Laredo College." El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) y el equipo del departamento de tecnología computacional de Laredo College anunciaron que Laredo College fue recientemente reconocido como un Centro Nacional de Excelencia Académica en Seguridad Cibernética. En la imagen de izquierda a derecha: Abdul Mohamed, Néstor Seratto, Ana Proa, Enrique García, Raymundo Fuentes, el Jefe del Departamento Robert Moore, el Congresista Henry Cuellar, el Presidente del Colegio Laredo Dr. Ricardo Solís, el Dr. Rodney Rodríguez, Tekuani Pérez y Hassan Escamilla.
09.10.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the awarding of $2 million in federal funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airport Improvement Program to the Laredo International Airport. The FAA grant will be used to help finance the airport’s ongoing efforts to reduce noise for those living near the airport. As the Laredo International Airport continues to grow, a higher volume of air traffic has contributed to noise for residents in the surrounding neighborhoods. The noise program, which began in 1994, allows homeowners within the designated noise area to choose between three mitigation options. The program permits the airport to acquire the property, purchase an easement (at eight percent of the appraised value of the property), or insulate the home. The funds announced today will allow the airport to implement noise mitigation measures in the residential area adjacent to the airport by providing sound insulation to residences within 65-69 Day-Night Average Sound Level (DNL), a noise metric used by FAA to measure effect of noise on residential populations over a 24-hour period. Furthermore, it will be used to analyze the existing Noise Exposure Maps (NEMs), study conditions, aviation demands, and prepare an update on the NEMs for future conditions for the next 5 years thru 2024. This will provide sound insulation for 6 residences; enable the purchase of 16 residences and the acquisition of avigation easements of 5 residences. The City of Laredo will add $222,223 in matching funds for a total investment of $2.2 million. The City anticipates that this grant will help reduce noise complaints for approximately 108 residents, or 27 homes. To date this year, Congressman Cuellar has secured over $13 million in federal funding from the FAA to address aircraft noise for 264 homes near the Laredo International Airport. Over the last 25 years the airport has received over $238.5 million dollars in federal funding. “As our airport continues to grow, we must also make sure that our nearby neighborhoods are heard and taken care of during this process,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will continue to provide the necessary assistance to residents who live and work near the airport. I thank Mayor Pete Saenz, Council Member Vielma, Community Development Director Arturo Garcia and everyone involved in this important project.” “I am very thankful for the help Congressman Cuellar has provided, along with our City of Laredo airport staff, in providing additional funding to address the issue of noise mitigation for residents who live near our airport,” said Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. “These funds will also help with our outreach program to allow affected residents to apply for airport noise mitigation program.” “The expansion of the Port of Laredo, which includes the Laredo International Airport, is essential for the future growth of our city,” said Laredo City Manager Horacio de Leon, Jr. “Part of the responsibility of maintaining a very active airport is listening to the residents who live nearby. These combined federal and city funds will provide relief for 108 Laredoans. I thank Congressman Cuellar and our city airport staff for working together for the benefit of our citizens.” To see map of AIP noise lands, click here. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the City of Laredo on Monday announce a $2 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to the Laredo International Airport to help nearby residents with air traffic noise. Pictured from left to right are Congressman Henry Cuellar, Laredo City Manager Horacio de Leon, Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, District 5 Councilwoman Nelly Vielma, District 6 Mayor Pro Tempore Charlie San Miguel, Executive Director of Transportation Mario Maldonado, Assistant Airport Director Elsy Borgstedt, and Deputy City Manager Cynthia Collazo.
09.10.2018	El Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) anunció hoy la adjudicación de $2 millones de dólares en fondos federales del Programa de Mejora del Aeropuerto de la Administración Federal de Aviación (FAA por sus siglas en inglés) al Aeropuerto Internacional de Laredo. La subvención de la FAA se usará para ayudar a financiar los esfuerzos continuos del aeropuerto para reducir el ruido para los residentes que viven cerca del aeropuerto. A medida que el Aeropuerto Internacional de Laredo continúa creciendo, un mayor volumen de tráfico aéreo ha contribuido al ruido en los vecindarios residenciales en el entorno del aeropuerto. El programa de control de ruido, que comenzó en 1994, permite a los propietarios dentro del área de ruido designada elegir entre tres opciones de mitigación. El programa permite que el aeropuerto adquiera la propiedad, compre una servidumbre (al ocho por ciento del valor estimado de la propiedad) o insonorizar la casa. Los fondos anunciados hoy permitirán que el aeropuerto implemente medidas de mitigación del ruido en el área residencial en el entorno del aeropuerto proporcionando aislamiento acústico a residencias dentro del Nivel de Sonido Promedio Diurno (DNL) de 65-69, una medida de ruido utilizada por la FAA para medir el efecto de ruido en poblaciones residenciales durante un período de 24 horas. Además, se usará para analizar los mapas de exposición al ruido (NEM) existentes, estudiar las condiciones, las demandas de la aviación y preparar una actualización de los NEM para las condiciones futuras durante los próximos 5 años hasta el 2024. Esto proporcionará aislamiento acústico para 6 residencias; permitirá la compra de 16 residencias y la adquisición de servidumbres de avulsión de 5 residencias. La Ciudad de Laredo agregará $222,223 en fondos equivalentes para una inversión total de $ 2.2 millones. La Ciudad anticipa que esta subvención ayudará a reducir las quejas por ruido para aproximadamente 108 residentes o 27 hogares. Hasta la fecha este año, el Congresista Cuellar ha asegurado más de $13 millones de dólares en fondos federales de la FAA para hacer frente al ruido de los aviones en 264 viviendas cercanas al Aeropuerto Internacional de Laredo. En los últimos 25 años, el aeropuerto ha recibido más de $238.5 millones de dólares en fondos federales. "A medida que nuestro aeropuerto continúa creciendo, también debemos asegurarnos escuchar las necesidades de los vecindarios cercanos y que sean atendidos durante este proceso," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Estos fondos continuarán brindando la asistencia necesaria a los residentes que viven y trabajan cerca del aeropuerto. Agradezco al Alcalde Pete Saenz, a la Miembro del Consejo Nelly Vielma, al Director de Desarrollo Comunitario Arturo García, y a todos los involucrados en este importante proyecto." "Estoy muy agradecido por la ayuda brindada por el Congresista Cuéllar, junto con el personal del aeropuerto de la ciudad de Laredo, para proporcionar financiamiento adicional para abordar el problema de la mitigación del ruido para los residentes que viven cerca de nuestro aeropuerto,” dijo el Alcalde de Laredo, Pete Sáenz. "Estos fondos también ayudarán con nuestro programa de alcance para permitir que los residentes afectados soliciten apoyo de un programa de mitigación del ruido del aeropuerto." "La expansión del Puerto de Laredo, que incluye el Aeropuerto Internacional de Laredo, es esencial para el futuro crecimiento de nuestra ciudad," dijo el Administador de Laredo, Horacio de León, Jr. "Parte de la responsabilidad de mantener un aeropuerto tan activo es escuchar las necesidades de los residentes que viven alrededor. Estos fondos combinados federales y de la ciudad brindarán alivio a 108 laredenses. Agradezco al Congresista Cuellar y al personal de nuestra ciudad del aeropuerto por trabajar juntos para el beneficio de nuestros ciudadanos." Para ver el mapa de las tierras de ruido AIP, vea aquí. El Congresista Cuellar y representantes de la Ciudad de Laredo anuncian el lunes una subvención de $2 millones de la Administración Federal de Aviación para el Aeropuerto Internacional de Laredo para ayudar a los residentes en el entorno del aeropuerto con el ruido del tráfico aéreo. En la foto de izquierda a derecha Congresista Henry Cuellar, Administrador de la Ciudad de Laredo Horacio de Leon, Alcalde de Laredo Pete Saenz, Miembro del Cabildo Distrito 5 Nelly Vielma, Alcade Pro Tempore Distrito 6 Charlie San Miguel, Director Ejecutivo de Transporte Mario Maldonado, Directora Asistente Elsy Borgstedt, y Subdirectora de la Ciudad Cynthia Collazo.
09.10.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the awarding of $550,000 in federal funds to Webb County from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Office on Violence Against Women. The grant is being funded by the Justice for Families Program to improve the response of all aspects of the civil and criminal justice systems to families with a history of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or in cases involving allegations of child sexual abuse. The Justice for Families Program, which was authorized in the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, supports a series of activities for improving the capacity of courts and communities to respond to families affected by the targeted crimes. These include court-based and court-related programs, supervised visitation and safe exchange by and between parents, training and technical assistance for people who work with families in the court system, civil legal services, provision of resources in juvenile court matters, and development and promotion of legislation, model codes, policies, and best practices. Projects supported by the Justice for Families Program are those that focus on keeping victims and their children safe from further abuse and holding offenders accountable. Webb County and its collaborative partners, Casa Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter and 406th Judicial District Court, will utilize this award to provide supervised visitation and safe exchange, and train court-based and court-related personnel. These funds will enable the collaborative to support two full-time and two part-time supervised visitation monitors, conduct 30 supervised visitations and 70 supervised exchanges per month, and to train visitation center staff and project partners on domestic violence topics such as confidentiality, cultural responsivity, and the referral process. “These federal funds will help in our community-wide effort to end domestic violence and violence against women, and children,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina, Sister Rosemary from Casa de Misericordia and Judge O.J. Hale 406th Judicial District Court for their service to our community and for investing their time and resources to make sure that women and families in our community can be safe to live happy and prosperous lives and not in fear.” “I want to commend Congressman Cuellar on his efforts in fighting for grant monies for this worthy cause,” said Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina. “Sadly, domestic violence is endemic throughout or nation and Webb County. Through a collaborative effort amongst all of us we will continue to fight for protection and resources for victims of domestic violence.” “Webb County is fortunate to have a team of collaborators like Sister Rosemary and Casa de Misericordia who are committed to protecting the most vulnerable among us and I am proud to collaborate with them on this endeavor and to do my small part in the fight to end domestic violence in our community” said Judge Oscar Jesus Hale, Jr. Sister Rosemary Welsh from Casa de Misericordia added, “I thank Congressman Cuellar for his leadership and assistance to secure this grant. This funding is critical to assist our community and those affected by domestic violence. It’s crucial to educate ourselves and to erase the stigma and false narrative surrounding victims. It is also just as important to provide support to the best of our capacity to the victims of violence and abuse through programs such as Justice for Families.” Congressman Cuellar presents Webb County with Department of Justice grant for their ‘Justice for Families’ program in Laredo on Monday. Pictured from left to right, top row: Commissioner Pct. 4 Jaime Canales and Commissioner Pct. 1 Jesse Gonzalez, bottom row: Congressman Henry Cuellar, Commissioner Pct. 2 Rosaura Wawi Tijerina, Casa de Misericordia Executive Director Sister Rosemary Welsh, Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina, 406th District Court Judge O.J. Hale, and Commissioner Pct. 3 John Galo.
09.10.2018	Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) anunció la adjudicación de $550,000 en fondos federales al Condado de Webb de la Oficina de Violencia contra las Mujeres del Departamento de Justicia de EE. UU. (DOJ por sus siglas en inglés). La subvención está siendo financiada por el Programa Justicia para Familias para mejorar la respuesta de todos los aspectos de los sistemas de justicia civil y criminal a familias con antecedentes de violencia doméstica, violencia de pareja, asalto sexual, acoso, o en casos que involucran acusaciones de abuso sexual infantil. El Programa Justicia para Familias, que fue autorizado en la Ley de Reautorización de Violencia contra las Mujeres de 2013, respalda una serie de actividades para mejorar la capacidad de los tribunales y las comunidades para responder a las familias afectadas por los delitos selectivos. Estos incluyen programas judiciales y relacionados con la corte, visitas supervisadas e intercambios seguros entre padres, capacitación y asistencia técnica para personas que trabajan con familias en el sistema judicial, servicios legales civiles, provisión de recursos en asuntos de tribunales de menores, y desarrollo y promoción de legislación, códigos modelo, políticas y mejores prácticas. Los proyectos respaldados por el Programa Justicia para Familias son aquellos que se enfocan en mantener a las víctimas y sus hijos a salvo de nuevos abusos y responsabilizar a los delincuentes. El Condado de Webb y sus socios colaboradores, el Albergue de Violencia Domestica Casa Misericordia y la Corte Judicial de Distrito 406, utilizarán estos fondos para proporcionar visitas supervisadas e intercambios seguros, y capacitar al personal judicial y relacionado con los tribunales. Estos fondos permitirán apoyar dos monitores de visitas supervisadas a tiempo completo y dos a tiempo parcial, realizar 30 visitas supervisadas y 70 intercambios supervisados por mes, y capacitar al personal del centro de visitas y socios del proyecto en temas de violencia doméstica como confidencialidad, cultura la capacidad de respuesta y el proceso de referencia. "Estos fondos federales ayudarán en nuestro esfuerzo comunitario para terminar con la violencia doméstica y la violencia contra mujeres y niños," dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Agradezco al Juez del Condado de Webb Tano Tijerina, a la Hermana Rosemary de la Casa de Misericordia y al Juez O.J. Hale de la Corte Judicial de Distrito 406 por su servicio a nuestra comunidad y por invertir su tiempo y recursos para garantizar que las mujeres y las familias de nuestra comunidad puedan vivir vidas felices y prósperas sin miedo." "Quiero felicitar al Congresista Cuéllar por sus esfuerzos en la lucha para obtener fondos para esta noble causa," dijo el Juez del Condado de Webb, Tano Tijerina. "Lamentablemente, la violencia doméstica es endémica en todo el país o el condado de Webb. A través de un esfuerzo de colaboración entre todos nosotros continuaremos luchando por la protección y los recursos para las víctimas de la violencia doméstica." "El Condado de Webb tiene la fortuna de tener un equipo de colaboradores como la Hermana Rosemary y Casa de Misericordia, quienes están comprometidos a proteger a los más vulnerables entre nosotros. Me enorgullece poder colaborar con ellos en este esfuerzo y hacer mi pequeña parte en la lucha para terminar violencia doméstica en nuestra comunidad," dijo el Juez Oscar Jesus Hale, Jr. La Hermana Rosemary Welsh de Casa de Misericordia agregó, "Agradezco al Congresista Cuellar por su liderazgo y asistencia para asegurar esta beca. Esta financiación es fundamental para ayudar a nuestra comunidad y a los afectados por la violencia doméstica. Es crucial educarnos a nosotros mismos y borrar el estigma y la ideología falsa que rodea a las víctimas. También es sumamente importante brindar el mayor apoyo posible a las víctimas de la violencia y el abuso a través de programas como Justicia para Familias." El Congresista Cuellar presenta al Condado de Webb con una subvención del Departamento de Justicia para su programa "Justicia para las familias" en Laredo el lunes. En la foto de izquierda a derecha, fila superior: Comisionado Pct. 4 Jaime Canales y Comisionado Pct. 1 Jesse Gonzalez, fila inferior: Congresista Henry Cuellar, Comisionado Pct. 2 Rosaura “Wawi” Tijerina, Directora Ejecutiva de la Casa de Misericordia Hermana Rosemary Welsh, Juez del Condado de Webb Tano Tijerina, Juez de la Corte de Distrito 406. O.J. Hale, y el Comisionado Pct. 3 John Galo.
09.04.2018	House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH) and Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) recently introduced H.R. 6695, the Trademark Licensing Protection Act of 2018, which clarifies that licensing trademarks, and controlling or exercising those trademarks, do not create an employment relationship. “In an effort to strengthen the protections of small businesses, especially franchisees, we must ensure that the millions of Americans they employ have the provisions and protections they need available to them without risking being considered a joint employer. It’s imperative that Congress restores a common-sense definition of an employer and provides certainty to America’s job creators,” said Chairman Steve Chabot. “As a former small business owner, I understand that operating a small business is a fundamental pillar of the American dream, and the franchise business model is a great way for aspiring entrepreneurs to achieve this goal,” Rep. Henry Cuellar said. “We must ensure that our franchise owners receive fair treatment instead of confusing and arbitrary regulations that hinder them. The Trademark Licensing Protection Act will provide our nation’s small and franchise businesses the certainty necessary to grow and invest in the future of their employees. I thank Chairman Chabot for his work on this bill and I encourage my colleagues from both parties to support local businesses by supporting this legislation.” “Franchise businesses are in a Catch-22,” said Matt Haller, IFA’s Senior Vice President of Government Relations & Public Affairs. “They are at once required to maintain standards and possibly liable for efforts to maintain them. This bill can clarify these competing standards to allow for franchise businesses to grow, train workers, and strengthen local economies. Franchisees and franchisors continue to face significant legal and compliance costs, resulting in a chilling effect on economic growth and support for existing franchisees since the joint employer uncertainty began. We applaud Chairman Chabot and Rep. Cuellar for continuing their leadership in seeking a solution to this issue for the franchise sector.” Background: For more than 30 years, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) used one standard to determine whether two separate businesses were joint employers. In 2015, the Obama-era NLRB abandoned this standard. The ambiguity of the new standard threatens small businesses and entrepreneurs. Chairman Chabot is an original cosponsor of H.R. 3441, the Save Local Business Act, to reverse the NLRB’s decision expanding the definition of the joint employer standard. H.R. 3441 passed the House on November 8, 2017. The Committee first held a roundtable in April 2015 on the issue. In March 2016, the Committee held a hearing titled, “Risky Business: Effects of New Joint Employer Standards for Small Firms” to examine the negative impact of the rule on small businesses. In May 2018, Code Ninjas LLC of Pearland, Texas, testified at a Small Business Committee hearing on behalf of the International Franchise Association.
08.31.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the denial of passports to U.S. citizens along the U.S.-Mexico Border: “In the southern part of my district, we are facing increasing numbers of citizenship fraud along the U.S.-Mexico border. In some cases, American citizens born through a midwife are required to provide supplemental information and documentation in order to receive their passport. While this has been an on-going issue, we have been working diligently to support our constituents and provide them with the services and guidance for them to receive their passports. Typically this is resolved when a constituent provides additional evidence including immunizations and school records, baptismal certificate, mother’s legal status at time of birth and proof of documents used to come to the U.S. at time of birth to grant them approval of their passport. We must ensure that we continue to take proactive measures at addressing citizenship fraud. I will continue to work with my colleagues and with the Department of State at ensuring that proper protocol is taken, in order to properly handle fraudulent cases along the border.”
08.31.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement after a federal court denied Texas and nine other states to temporarily block the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “Instead of blocking opportunities, we must continue to seek long-terms solutions to our current, outdated immigration system. Today’s decision by a federal court to deny states this obstruction is an encouraging development. As one of the longest and strongest supporters of DACA in Congress, I believe that we must build upon the success of this program for individuals who are seeking a pathway to citizenship. These are hundreds of thousands of productive members of society who deserve better, and I look forward to continuing to work on helping them achieve this in Congress.”
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after President Trump notified Congress of his intent to sign a trade agreement with Mexico without having completed negotiations with Canada: "President Trump’s official notice to Congress today is a welcomed step forward in the NAFTA negotiation process. This is a clear signal that the administration is serious about solidifying a final deal on an updated NAFTA that will continue to spur growth and economic development for both countries, as it has since its inception over two decades ago. “Although we have not yet been briefed on the specifics of the agreement, significant progress has been made. I urge the administration to continue to develop a deal that includes Canada, so that we may continue to build upon the successes of the 24-year-old, trilateral trade agreement.” ###
08.27.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding news that the United States and Mexico have reached a preliminary NAFTA deal, paving the way for Canada to rejoin negotiations: "While this entire process could have been avoided without the dramatization and harsh rhetoric from the administration, which has created uncertainty for business and stifled growth, this preliminary deal presents us with the opportunity to modernize the trilateral agreement which has grown trade between the United States, Canada, and Mexico from $290 billion in 1993 to over $1.1 trillion in 2016. These numbers reflect what I have said all along: NAFTA is an integral part of our economy. Businesses large and small throughout the country simply cannot function in an environment of unpredictability. They rely on the stability, as provided by this treaty, to grow and remain competitive. “Although this deal is a step in the right direction, there is still a lot of work to do before Congress votes on this agreement. Canada still must agree to U.S.-Mexico agreements that affect their interests, and there is significant trilateral ground to cover. We must solidify a deal that includes Canada, so that we can build upon the successes of NAFTA and strengthen trade relations with both partners. I ask that the administration quickly provide me with a detailed briefing, so that I remain engaged on this issue. I will continue work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers to make certain that the new U.S.-Mexico agreement continues to promote job growth and stimulate the economy, just as it has since its inception."
08.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure a $117.4 million U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) award for the construction of a new San Antonio U.S. Courthouse. This achievement comes as a result of the combined efforts of Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), as well as the bipartisan San Antonio delegation, including Lamar Smith (TX-21), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Will Hurd (TX-23), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), who were united in their goal of creating this new judicial home for the Western District. The planned 230,536 square foot federal courthouse will be located in historic downtown San Antonio at the corner of Santa Rosa Avenue and Nueva Street. The facility will house the U.S. District Courts for the Western District of Texas, U.S. Court of Appeals, U.S. Clerk of the Court, U.S. Magistrate Courts, U.S. Marshals, U.S. Attorneys, U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services, Federal Public Defender and GSA. Under federal budgeting guidelines, funds must both be authorized and appropriated by separate committees in both the House and Senate before they can be disbursed. Congressman Cuellar secured these funds through the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which allocated $947 million for new courthouse construction projects across the country, with $117 million of that total allocated specifically for the construction of a new U.S. courthouse in San Antonio. Congressman Cuellar worked to obtain these funds to address numerous problems at the current facility, the John H. Wood, Jr. U.S. Courthouse. Judges, jurors, prosecutors and visitors often pass defendants charged with violent crimes in corridors and conveyances around the building. The building also lacks a protected perimeter, tests positive for high levels of lead and iron contamination in its water, likely due to poor pipe construction, and is missing proper heating and air conditioning controls, not to mention asbestos and mold in and around the HVAC systems. The construction of the new facility, slated to begin in Spring 2019, will not only address these issues, but also increase capacity to raise staffing levels and manage the litigation demands of one the nation’s busiest federal judicial districts. The contract has been awarded to Brasfield & Gorrie, L.L.C., a nationally recognized construction firm with an established history of service to Texas communities. The new state of the art courthouse will meet the security, accessibility and operational needs of the courts in service to the Western District Texas. "The Wood Courthouse has kept the Western District going for nearly 50 years, but unfortunately it does not have the capacity to support it any longer," Congressman Cuellar said. "The project to build a new courthouse was deserving of emergency appropriations because of the building’s numerous problems: The building’s water quality, air quality, space, safety and security issues go beyond simple repairs. I, therefore, am pleased to announce funding for the construction of a new courthouse immediately, which will transform the area and directly impact the San Antonio community.” “I would like to thank the General Services Administration for laying out specific options and concrete next steps for this courthouse. I also thank Senator Cornyn, along with the San Antonio delegation for their steadfast advocacy on this project. Finally, I would like to thank U.S. Western District of Texas Judge Xavier Rodriguez and Chief Judge Orlando Garcia, and recognize Judge Fred Biery, Judge David Guaderrama, and Judge Robert Pitman, whose work on this matter has been essential.”
08.14.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar on Tuesday announced $4 million in federal funds for two district court programs in Laredo. The Webb County Court at Law II Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Court Program will receive $2 million over the next five years, while Webb County’s 406th Judicial District Adult Drug Court Program will receive $2 million over the next five years to expand its current services. The Webb County Court at Law - DWI Court will use this funding to tackle the problem of drinking and driving in the community by expanding the Webb County DWI Court. The Webb 406th District Drug Court Program (DCP) will provide nonviolent offenders with mental health treatment, drug rehabilitation, and additional services aimed at promoting self-sufficiency. This funding will allow both court programs, which were scheduled to end this year, to continue to run for an additional five years. It will specifically help those whose lives are affected by alcohol and drug dependency. Webb County Court at Law II Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Court Program The Webb County Court at Law II Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) Court Program will receive $2 million in federal funding for the Webb County Court at Law - DWI Court. This award comes from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and will be distributed over five years, at $400,000 per year. This is the second grant award for the DWI Court, the first being awarded for $975,000 in 2015. Over the last three years, the DWI Court has served over 160 participations, and has graduated over 120 program participants. It is estimated that 280 participants will benefit during the five-year funding of the DWI court project. The court will focus on adults in Webb County who have been arrested two or more times for Driving While Intoxicated and have an alcohol or drug use disorder, including those participants who have co-occurring mental health disorders. With this funding, the Court will provide prompt alcohol and drug treatment and recovery support services, including screenings, assessments, case management, and medication-assisted therapy to DWI Court participants. Webb County’s 406th Judicial District Adult Drug Court Program Webb County’s 406th Judicial District Adult Drug Court Program will receive $2 million in grant funding to help adults in Webb County, and the surrounding area, who are primarily alcohol and opiate dependent and who have co-occurring substance abuse and mental health disorders. The award comes from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and will be distributed over a period of five years, $400,000 per year, which will continue the Webb County 406th District Court – Drug Court Program. The Webb 406th District Drug Court Program (DCP) provides nonviolent offenders who are alcohol dependent and have psychiatric and substance use disorders, a second chance to change their negative behaviors. The Court provides monitoring, drug and alcohol testing, case management, community outreach, substance abuse education and treatment referrals. Upon successful completion of drug court program, the District Attorney of Webb County, Texas will file a Motion to Dismiss the participants case. To date, the court has received a total of $4,925,000 in federal funding, helping over 900 individuals served by this program. This new funding will add an additional 100 participants to the program over the five-year grant – increasing from 360 to 460 participants. This year, this program will expand treatment to the counties of Zapata, Jim Hogg and Starr. “According to information provided by the City of Laredo Health Department, there have been 168 overdose deaths since 2012, which averages to about 3 deaths a month. One death is one too many,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need to help put an end to this epidemic, and one way of doing so is by working together with our court system and provide help to those who need it the most.” Of these 168 deaths, 149 were attributed to heroin and opioids. The Texas Department of Transportation, in a 2017 report, stated that ten people lost their lives as a result of DWI-related accidents in Webb County. This was the result of a total of 120 crashes and injuries the same year. A 2018 report by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that Texas was the highest in alcohol-impaired driving fatalities with a total of 1,438. “Judicial involvement and supervision provided by our courts, combined with effective treatment services, is an important strategy to break the cycle of criminal behavior, alcohol use, and incarceration,” added Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate Judge Oscar Hale, Judge Oscar Villarreal and the staff with the respective court programs for taking the lead and help put an end to this cycle.” Oscar Jesus Hale, Jr. said, “During the course of the past ten years we have established a proven substance abuse treatment program here in Webb County with over 500 program graduates to date; and now with the award of this operation and expansion grant it is our goal to expand services to the surrounding rural areas of South Texas and to continue to provide the same quality treatment for all participants.” Judge Villarreal expressed his desire for a safer community as he and County Court-at-Law II continue to improve the community through several initiatives, including the DWI Court Program. “Webb County Court-at-Law II offers this intense treatment program for non-violent individuals to treat alcohol dependency and addiction, and simultaneously make our community safer”.
08.08.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced over $1.4 million for the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) to increase the retention and graduation of undergraduate students in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics). Congressman Cuellar created the first-ever NSF STEM program focused on HSIs through his work on the appropriations committee. With these funds, UTRGV will develop new mathematics and biology "gateway" courses for first year and early career students; offered in a bilingual modality. The university will design and implement professional development workshops to help faculty implement effective community engagement and experiential learning in STEM, and will study the impact of these courses on students’ sense of belonging, pride, and cultural wealth, and student performance and retention in STEM fields. This grant is part of NSF’s first ever research grants awarded under the NSF HSI Program. For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a priority to secure funding for HSIs in his district. In the 2017 fiscal year Appropriations bill, Congressman Cuellar secured $15 million in funding for the first-ever NSF STEM program focused specifically on HSIs. NSF used these funds to conduct conferences and listening sessions with students, faculty, deans, and heads of professional organizations to determine the best practices for improving undergraduate STEM Education in HSIs. The Congressman was successful in growing this program by adding an additional $30 million for this program in 2018. This grant for UTRGV comes from the FY 2018 funding secured by Congressman Cuellar. Hispanics constitute 16 percent of the U.S. workforce, but they make up only 6 percent of the U.S. STEM workforce. More than 60 percent of Hispanic students attend an HSI. Specifically, the university will use this program to develop new courses and develop new classes in Community Engaged Scholarship and Learning, which will emphasize meaningful engagement in community-based STEM-related projects. By emphasizing the broader, societal relevance of STEM fields, these new courses will help first year students develop a sense of belonging and commitment. It is expected that these innovations will enhance students' success in STEM, helping to address a national need to increase diversity in STEM fields. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. I also see it every day in my district, as we have more than a dozen Hispanic-Serving Institutions serving our area. These schools produce top-notch academic talent, prepared for a 21st-century workforce. Our accomplishments today ensure that universities do not miss out on this valuable population in research, partnerships, and hiring – and that these important institutions have the funds they need to continue to succeed.” Congressman Cuellar continues to work in the appropriations to grow this HSI program. In FY19, the Congressman helped secure $50 million for this program through the U.S. House of Representatives’ fiscal year 2019 Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill. Over the course of three years, Congressman Cuellar has secured a total of $95 million dollars for this program. There are more than a dozen Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) in or near Congressman Cuellar’s district, including Laredo Community College, South Texas College, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word, Northeast Lakeview College, and Texas A&M International University.
07.31.2018	LAREDO–Today, the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) in collaboration with the TAMIU Small Business Development Center, hosted the ‘Access to Capital’ Forum and Small Business Resource fair to promote resources for business financing. This event took place at Texas A&M International University, and it brought together business owners and community members of LaSalle, Webb and Zapata counties that are looking to start or expand their business. This provided them with an opportunity to learn more about federal and private financing resources from financial institutions in Laredo. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is a pleasure to work with the Small Business Administration and the Small Business Development Center to coordinate events such as ‘Access to Capital’ to bring together business owners, federal agencies, and constituents interested in starting their entrepreneurial career. Congressman Cuellar continued, “As a former small business owner, I know the challenges of opening a business, including finding the resources and funds to get started, and just as important, how to the keep the business running. This is why this ‘Access to Capital’ event is so crucial. Having exposure to different resources, such as federal funding and counseling, is key. I also understand how difficult it can be to comply with burdensome regulations while staying afloat. The need for credit to keep your doors open and support your employees’ jobs is also critical. This year, I helped secure funding that will help eliminate heavy burdens and increase job growth in the 28th district. It will also alleviate regulations on small financial institutions, increase trade with other countries, and lower prices for consumer goods.” He added, “I want to thank all the organizations that made this event possible, including the TAMIU Small Business Development Center, the U.S. Small Business Administration and Laredo financial institutions.” Michael Gonzalez, Director of the TAMIU Small Business Development Center said, “Events like these are critical to the continued growth of our South Texas Economy. Remember, when we mention small business, that is defined as businesses with 500 employees or less, which encompass most of Laredo’s businesses.” He added, “Bottom line, small business is not small. In fact, this information stands to help just about anyone who has questions on how to access capital. Many thanks to Congressman Cuellar and all of our partners for their work in bringing this event to the community.” Top photo: Attendees and panelists at the Access to Capital event at TAMIU on Tuesday Bottom photo pictured from left to right: Senior Vice President of Falcon International Bank Jose Zuniga, International Bank of Commerce Executive Vice President of Commercial Lending Edward Farias, Director of the TAMIU SBDC Mike Gonzalez, U.S. Small Business Administration Public Affairs Specialist Nina Ramon, BBVA Compass Bank Business Banking Officer David Dodier, Peoplefund Director of Lending Jemerell Rogers, and Outreach Coordinator Francis Atwell ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) secured language increasing transparency and oversight at immigration detention centers in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill. Specifically, these provisions aim to improve conditions and procedures, and expedite immigrant family reunifications. This bill passed full committee markup and is scheduled for a vote on the House and Senate Floors later this fall. Bringing Clarity to Family Separation Practices and Procedures Congressman Cuellar is uniquely familiar with the lack of clarity regarding family separation procedures and how this has led to many unnecessarily separations. To address this issue, Congressman Cuellar helped secure language in the Homeland bill directing DHS to provide accurate reporting on the number of separations as a result of: The prosecution of a parent or legal guardian; A medical necessity; The interest of the immediate safety of the child; or A fraudulent family relationship or guardianship claims. Congressman Cuellar has also required reporting by DHS that: Provides a description of how the validity of family relationship or guardianship claims are determined; Describes any guidance to field personnel regarding the implementation of new child separation policies; Describes the process for reuniting families that are separated as a result of the prosecution of an adult family member; Gives an assessment of how that process can be improved; and Assesses the feasibility of using rapid-DNA testing. In-kind Donations Amendment Congressman Cuellar additionally secured a provision enabling ICE to accept in-kind donations from the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and other groups independent from the Federal government. This amendment will ensure that DHS has access to ample supplies in the form of in-kind donations, including medical goods and services, school supplies, toys, clothing, and any other items that will help provide for the care of unaccompanied immigrant children in custody. Developing Expedited Reunification Procedures Congressman Cuellar’s top priority regarding immigrant detention is to ensure all families that are separated are reunited and done so as quickly as possible. In the Homeland bill, he secured language that: Ensures separated family units are reunited, transferred and processed together prior to removal from DHS facilities; Creates an opportunity for immigrants being transferred from DHS custody to report a separation and verify the status, location, and disposition of their family members; Allows communication between separated family members being held in different facilities via phone or video conference, and Requires a briefing on the cost a feasibility if an innovative fingerprinting system to be integrated as part of DHS exit tracking of immigrants. Increasing Transparency at Detention Centers Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority for years to improve the conditions of and increase oversight at detention facilities along the southwest border. In 2014, the Congressman was one of the first members of Congress to reveal the need for improvement at border detention facilities. Since then, he has worked to ensure the humane and dignified treatment of those who come to America’s borders. In previous appropriations bills, Congressman Cuellar secured language directing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to make available food, water, and medical care to families in custody at the border. His language also increased unannounced inspections of ICE and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) detention facilities, ensuring that these centers are in compliance with regulations and treat the immigrants in their custody humanely. Enhancing Oversight and Increasing Accountability For years, Congressman Cuellar has brought the need to improve detention center conditions to the attention of the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee. The Congressman helped secure this language to address the conditions that detained immigrants become subject to after apprehension by border agents. ICE now must publicly report these additional details: Semi-annual updates on unaccompanied children who age out while in Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) custody; The status of secure communities; Oversight access to facilities; Deaths in custody; Detainee locator information; Compliance with Performance Based National Detention Standards; Compliance with the Prison Rape Elimination Act; Changes to facility and inspection framework categories; The results of unannounced inspections of all family residential centers at least two times a year. Directing Unannounced Detention Facility Inspections and Publishing Online Congressman Cuellar secured an amendment directing ICE’s Office of Detention Oversight to conduct unannounced inspections of all ICE family residential centers at least twice a year, and to be promptly published on ICE’s website. Alternatives to Detention Amendment He also included $28 million for 19,000 more daily Alternatives to Detention (ATD) participants. ATD programs, which include regular check-ins and ankle monitors, provide an alternative route for certain undocumented immigrants in ICE custody. Specifically, they place low-risk undocumented immigrants under various forms of intensive supervision or electronic monitoring, in lieu of detention, to ensure their appearance for immigration hearings and, in some cases, for their removal. “While I believe in upholding our immigration laws, I also believe in the humane and dignified treatment of every person that comes to America’s borders. Although we have taken proper steps to address the issue of family separation, more needs to be done. That is why I supported and included language in this bill that will increase accountability and oversight when it comes to treating immigrant families fairly and with dignity at detention centers. It is also takes critical measures in addressing the issue of immigrant family separation at our border.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators, DHS Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Yoder and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard for helping include this language and funding that will help address the issue of immigrant family separation at our southern border. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on finding practical, long-term solutions to fix our broken immigration system.” Additional Provisions Supported by Congressman Cuellar: Child Separation Criteria Amendment - Ensures that a child is only separated from a parent if the parent has a criminal history, a communicable disease, or is determined to be unfit or a danger to the child. Detainment with Siblings Amendment - Ensures that separated immigrant children who are detained at the border are held with their siblings whenever possible. Mental Health Care for Unaccompanied Children and Families – Provides an additional $3.7 million for medical and mental health screening, triage, and referral services by specialized personnel to unaccompanied children in high volume southwest border CBP locations. An additional $3 million for trauma treatment for children and their families at CBP and ICE locations. Assurance of Congressional Oversight Amendment - Guarantees that no funding will be used to prevent a Member of the U.S. Congress from entering, for the purposes of conducting oversight, any facility in the United States, used for the purposes of detaining or housing immigrant children. Read Congressman Cuellar’s DHS Appropriations Language here. Read Congressman Cuellar’s Appropriation Langue on Detention Centers from FY15-FY19 here. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak during full committee markup here and here. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) along with Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statements after President Trump signed into law their bill to rename Laredo’s federal courthouse the “George P. Kazen Federal Building and United States Courthouse.” “Judge Kazen made countless contributions to the community of Laredo and our nation’s judicial system,” Sen. Cornyn said. “I was glad to join efforts with Senator Cruz and Representative Cuellar to honor Judge Kazen’s dedicated public service and ensure future generations of Texans can reflect on his legacy.” “Judge Kazen has served Texas and the United States honorably,” Sen. Cruz said. “Naming the Laredo courthouse after him will serve as a lasting testament to his legacy, and I am grateful the President has signed this bill into law.” “I am pleased to honor such a noble individual through the signing of this bill today,” said Rep. Cuellar. “Judge Kazen was known as an honest, humble, and dedicated man. He was among the most respected judges in the state, and consistently ruled with class and fairness, all the while still making time to serve in numerous civic organizations throughout South Texas. The dedicating of this federal building and U.S. Court House will serve as a reminder to us all of this great man of character who dutifully served his community. I would like to thank Senators Cornyn and Cruz for introducing this bill in the Senate and for helping solidify a lasting testament of Judge George P. Kazen, who has given so much to this country." Judge Kazen has been an integral part of the Laredo community for decades. After finishing his service in the United States Air Force, Judge Kazen returned to his hometown of Laredo to practice law. After earning a nomination from President Jimmy Carter in 1979, he has spent decades as a U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Texas. Outside of the courtroom, Judge Kazen is a stalwart of his community, serving numerous civic organizations in South Texas. ###
07.26.2018	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) offered an amendment to the fiscal year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations bill during full committee markup to fight the border wall. The amendment would: Remove the nearly $5 billion in funding for the border wall and instead redirect these funds to more effective border security items, such as increased personnel, technology, and equipment; Protect the property rights of private landowners; Provide funding to help private property landowners have legal representation; Prohibit any border barrier from being built in the Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park and National Butterfly Center. This amendment was voted down by Republicans during committee markup, but Congressman Cuellar will continue to fight against the border wall. Transferring Money for Border Personnel, Technology, and Equipment Congressman Cuellar has been a vocal critic of President Trump’s proposal to build a wall or fence along the border. As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, he has fought for more efficient and effective methods of border security, including technology and border personnel. Specifically, Congressman Cuellar’s amendment would re-distribute the $5 billion dollars intended for a border wall to other high-priority border security items, including: DHS facilities, including new U.S. Border Patrol stations; Modernization of land ports of entry; Infrastructure security and resilience projects; Acquisition of advanced inspection technology for ports of entry and U.S. Border Patrol checkpoints; U.S. Border Patrol vehicles and equipment; Carrizo cane control along the Rio Grande River; And to increase U.S. Border Patrol agent salaries to reduce attrition. No Wall, Unless Mexico Provides Funding The amendment would also make sure the Trump Administration makes good on its promise to make Mexico pay for the wall. The amendment dictates that only funding given by Mexico may be used to build a wall. Funding for Private Property Landowners Often times, the government takes physical possession of a land it has condemned before the landowner has been compensated, and years can pass between the time the landowner lost his or her land to a condemnation and the time they are finally compensated for it. Congressman Cuellar’s provision would ensure that the Secretary of Homeland Security establishes mechanisms for private property landowners whose land is condemned for the construction of any border wall. This amendment would alleviate unnecessary burdens on low-income families who live on the border, by providing legal representation in the case the government decides to build a wall. Prohibiting Division of U.S. Water Resources and Property The Congressman’s district includes 294 miles of U.S.-Mexico border. The construction of a border wall that would leave U.S. water or land on the other side of the wall would effectively cede land and water resources to the Mexican government. This amendment ensures that no funds shall be made available for the construction of a border wall that would leave water, land resources, or private property on the Mexico-facing side of the wall. Protecting Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park and National Butterfly Center Finally, the amendment prohibits the use of funds for its construction in Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park and National Butterfly Center, protected areas that have been set aside to conserve America’s fish, wildlife, and plant resources in the Congressman’s district that attract tourists from around the world. The National Butterfly Center is home to a 100-acre wildlife center and botanical garden that borders the Rio Grande River and is part of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Lower Rio Grande Valley Wildlife Corridor. According to the North American Butterfly Association (NABA), the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas has the most diverse butterfly and bird fauna of any area of the United States. In last year’s appropriations bill, Congressman Cuellar worked to include language prohibiting the use of funding to construct a border wall in the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge. “I have been outspoken against President Trump’s wall because, unlike those who have championed for a giant wall between the United States and Mexico, I represent the border and actually live there. I speak with constituents, landowners, and law enforcement professionals regularly and we all know that a massively expensive wall is nothing more than a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century challenge.” “Border Patrol operations and technology already provide adequate deterrence for immigrants in most areas.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “A wall will also require substantial land grabs by the federal government and violate current landownership rights, ranching operations, and protected areas including Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park and National Butterfly Center. I offered this amendment because I know we can secure the border in a much more effective way, and at a fraction of the cost, by utilizing advanced technology and increasing the agents and properly equipping them on the border.” Read Congressman Cuellar’s Amendment Language here. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak during full committee markup here and here. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday.
07.26.2018	Today, Reps. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Joaquín Castro (TX-20) helped passed provisions in the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act to improve utility service infrastructure for Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA) and the City of San Antonio. This language brings together JBSA and the City of San Antonio to forge a path forward to replace a deteriorating wastewater pipeline that services the growing Southwest region of San Antonio. This pipeline runs through Lackland Air Force Base and has caused significant ruptures over the years, leading to lengthy service interruptions which negatively impact the growing community as well as military operations at Joint Base San Antonio. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives and will be sent to the Senate floor for a vote. The conference report requires the Air Force to conduct environmental studies along the portion of the new pipeline route that lies on federal property. These studies are essential to identifying potential contaminants and avoidable obstructions along the construction path. It’s important these studies are completed as soon as possible to help avoid further project delays and restore reliable service to the military base and surrounding community, as well as save utility customers over $100 million by avoiding extensive route adjustments. Congressman Cuellar stated, “I would like to thank my fellow colleagues, Reps. Joaquín Castro (TX-20), Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) and Marc Veasey (TX-33), for helping me bring this language to the forefront and seek an environmentally responsible solution to this issue. I look forward to seeing the continued partnership between San Antonio Water Services (SAWS), the City of San Antonio, and Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA). Replacing this pipeline critical to improving the health, safety, growth, and wellbeing for the City of San Antonio.” Congressman Castro said, “Continuing with soil samples for this pipeline project is important for our environment, public health, and San Antonio Water Services (SAWS) ratepayers. If we don’t, we will see continued sewer spills, uncertainty for the surrounding community concerning soil contamination, and rate increases for SAWS customers. This amendment allows the Air Force and SAWS to move forward with this project while at the same time helping grow our community responsibly.” “Congressman Cuellar continues to step up for our community to find ways to solve difficult issues for San Antonio,” said Robert R. Puente, San Antonio Water Services President/CEO. “SAWS commitment to Military City, USA, and to our customers will be strengthened through Rep. Cuellar’s leadership.” PLEASE NOTE: A public event will be held at a later date with SAWS in San Antonio to provide the public with information on the wastewater pipeline project and what this amendment means to the community.
07.26.2018	Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statements after the House Committee on Appropriations approved an amendment they offered to the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The legislation provides for critical programs such as border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, aviation security, natural disaster response, border security, and temporary guest-workers. Reps. Cuellar and Newhouse’s bipartisan amendment applies the H-2A program to all of agriculture, and it was adopted by unanimous voice vote: “Today, large segments of American agriculture face a critical lack of workers,” said Rep. Cuellar. “This amendment is simple— it provides the agriculture industry with the access to workers it needs by making clear that all agriculture may utilize H-2A. The reality is that the H-2A program is not working for the entirety of the American agriculture industry. In fact, it excludes non-seasonal agricultural sectors, such as dairy farming, and puts them at a disadvantage. This amendment will clear the path for our farmers and ranchers to gain access to much needed workers that will benefit the local economy in my district and across the country. I would like to thank Rep. Newhouse for working with me in a bipartisan manner to address this issue.” “Farmers facing a shortage of agriculture labor have not been well-served by the current H-2A program,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Modern agriculture demands modernization of the bureaucratic H-2A program, and as farming methods have become less seasonal or able to produce multiple harvests, the H-2A program must be updated to meet the needs of the agriculture industry. I am grateful to my colleague Rep. Cuellar for working with me on a bipartisan solution to make H-2A more workable for farmers.” Cuellar/Newhouse H-2A Amendment Summary: Reps. Cuellar and Newhouse’s amendment clarifies that for FY2019 all of agriculture may use the H-2A program. Under the amendment, H-2A would still remain a temporary program. Additionally, the amendment would not change the time limits a worker employed through the H-2A program can stay in the U.S., and it would maintain the requirement that farmers show they are advertising open positions and are trying to hire domestic workers first. The amendment would simply ensure that all of agriculture is able to utilize the program. The agriculture industry’s labor situation has been a concern for many years, and currently large segments of American agriculture face a critical shortage of workers. This shortfall is exacerbated by the fact that the H-2A program is not working for all of agriculture, such as dairies and agriculture operations with multiple crops and harvests. Click here for the amendment text. Watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the amendment here. Watch Congressman Newhouse speak on the amendment here.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Los representantes Henry Cuellar (D-TX) y Dan Newhouse (R-WA) dieron a conocer las siguientes declaraciones después de que el Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes aprobara una enmienda que ofrecieron al Acto de Asignaciones de Seguridad Nacional del año fiscal 2019. La legislación estipula programas críticos como el cumplimiento de las leyes fronterizas y de inmigración, actividades aduaneras, protección contra el terrorismo cibernético, seguridad de aviación, respuesta a desastres naturales, seguridad fronteriza y trabajadores invitados temporales. La enmienda bipartidista de los Representantes Cuellar y Newhouse aplica el programa H-2A a toda la industria agrícola, y fue adoptado por voto unánime de voz: "Hoy, grandes segmentos de la agricultura estadounidense enfrentan una falta crítica de trabajadores," dijo el Congresista Cuéllar. "Esta enmienda es simple: proporciona a la industria agrícola el acceso a los trabajadores que necesita al dejar en claro que toda la agricultura puede utilizar H-2A. La realidad es que el programa H-2A no funciona para la totalidad de la industria agrícola estadounidense. De hecho, excluye sectores agrícolas no estacionales, como la producción lechera, y los pone en desventaja. Esta enmienda abrirá el camino para que nuestros granjeros y agricultores tengan acceso a trabajadores que beneficiarán a la economía local en mi distrito y en todo el país. Me gustaría agradecer al Representante Newhouse por trabajar conmigo de una manera bipartidista para abordar este problema." "Los agricultores que enfrentan una escasez de mano de obra agrícola no han sido bien atendidos por el programa H-2A actual," dijo el Congresista Newhouse. "La agricultura moderna exige la modernización del programa burocrático H-2A. Como los métodos agrícolas se han vuelto menos estacionales o pueden producir cosechas múltiples, el programa H-2A debe actualizarse para satisfacer las necesidades de la industria agrícola. Agradezco a mi colega, el Congresista Cuellar, por trabajar conmigo en una solución bipartidista para hacer que el programa H-2A sea más viable para los agricultores." Resumen de la Enmienda H-2A de Cuellar y Newhouse: La enmienda de los representantes Cuéllar y Newhouse aclara que para el año fiscal 2019 todo tipo de industria agrícola puede usar el programa H-2A. Según la enmienda, H-2A aún sería un programa temporal. Además, la enmienda no cambiaría los plazos de tiempo que un trabajador empleado a través del programa H-2A puede permanecer en los EE.UU. También mantendría el requisito de que los agricultores demuestren que anuncian puestos vacantes y primero traten contratar trabajadores domésticos. La enmienda simplemente garantizaría que todos los productos agrícolas puedan utilizar el programa. La situación laboral de la industria agrícola ha sido una preocupación durante muchos años, y actualmente grandes segmentos de la agricultura estadounidense enfrentan una escasez crítica de trabajadores. Este déficit se ve agravado por el hecho de que el programa H-2A no está funcionando para toda la agricultura, como las lecherías y las operaciones agrícolas con cultivos y cosechas múltiples. Para ver el texto de la enmienda vea aquí. ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) welcomed Laredo Area Border Patrol Youth of the Year recipient Camila Sanmiguel and her mother Maria de Rosario Sanmiguel during their visit to Washington, D.C., on a trip sponsored by Congressman Cuellar and the Laredo Chamber of Commerce. The Border Patrol Youth of the Month program recognizes eleven students from all Laredo area high schools each month. At the end of the academic year, Border Patrol selects one of these students as the Youth of the Year recipient. The students are selected based on their academic achievement, their extracurricular activities and community involvement. The Youth of the Year program was first introduced by Congressman Cuellar while serving in the Texas State Legislature. This collaborative effort between Congressman Cuellar and the U.S. Border Patrol was established to recognize the local youth for their outstanding accomplishments. This year, Congressman Cuellar, the Laredo Chamber of Commerce, and local donors partnered to sponsor Camila’s visit to Washington D.C. Congressman Cuellar sponsored the flights for Camila and her mother. The Laredo Chamber of Commerce partnered with local donors including Tony Arce from AEP, Mr. Julian Luna, and Mr. Javier Santos, to provide funds for the hotel and additional travel expenses. Camila, the daughter of Eusebio Gerardo and Maria de Rosario Sanmiguel, a recent graduate from Alexander High School, and was selected and recognized as the Laredo Sector Border Patrol Youth of the Year for 2018. Camila is a member of the National Honor Society, was a member the Class of 2017 National Student Poets as selected by the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers in cooperation with the Library of Congress. She will be attending Harvard University in the fall where she will pursue a degree in History and Literature. After she completes her undergraduate studies, she plans to attend law school and continue her efforts in literary advocacy. Today, Congressman Cuellar welcomed Camila Sanmiguel and her mother at the U.S. Capitol. Congressman Cuellar facilitated a series of visits and tours for Camila and her mother including a White House tour, guided visits to the U.S. Capitol and the Library of Congress, and a Supreme Court Lecture. He also hosted a lunch for them, where they had the opportunity to discuss Camila’s achievements and goals as she starts her undergraduate studies this September at Harvard University. “It has been a pleasure to welcome Camila and her mother during their visit to our nation’s capital,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Every month, Border Patrol recognizes 11 students through their Youth of the Month Program. Now, through collaborative efforts with local donors and organizations, the Border Patrol Youth of the Year Program gives special recognition to one outstanding student from the community every year. I congratulate Camila in all her accomplishments. She is an excellent student with a bright future ahead of her. I am confident that she will proudly represent her family, our community and Laredo wherever she goes.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank U.S. Border Patrol for continuing to recognize Laredo’s top high school students. The Border Patrol Youth of the Month and Youth of the Year programs will continue to impact the community by supporting education amongst the young men and women of Laredo.” "I am so grateful to have felt the support of such a strong, formative community from my hometown in all my endeavors as a literary ambassador, as a National Student Poet, as a college student, and as Youth of the Year,” said Camila Sanmiguel. “I'm proud to join Congressman Cuellar in representing Laredo, and I want to thank my family, my educators, my supervisors, and my friends for being such an essential part of my trajectory." ###
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement thanking FEMA for the opening of Disaster Recovery Centers in Hidalgo County: “At a time when American families are in crisis and going through their worst, the professionals at FEMA are at their best. They are the unsung heroes that prepare every day for the unimaginable so that when disaster strikes they have a plan and can provide families in crisis with a path forward. I am grateful for their response in this situation.” The following FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers (DRCs) will be opening in Hidalgo County this week: City of Mission Social Event Center 115 South Mayberry Road Mission, TX 78572 Opening – 7/18/18 1:00 pm City of Weslaco Economic Development Center 275 South Kansas Ave Weslaco, TX 78596 Opening – 7/17/18 1:00 pm City of McAllen Library 700 North Main Street McAllen, TX 78504 Opening 7/20/18 1:00 pm For additional information on how to apply for a low-interest disaster loan or visit your local Disaster Recovery Center click here Applicants may apply for help from FEMA by registering on the website DisasterAssistance.gov. There is also a FEMA app for smartphones and tablets. People without internet access may sign up by calling (800) 621-FEMA (3362). ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure $148 million in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill, supporting small businesses and alleviating regulations on small financial institutions. He also secured language supporting local businesses by increasing trade efficiency and funding development centers in the South Texas region. He remains committed to relieving any excess regulation placed on small banks and encouraging legitimate financial transactions to move freely and globally. This bill passed full committee markup and is scheduled to be sent to the House and Senate Floors for a vote this summer. Helping Small Businesses Along the Border Congressman Cuellar has worked hard to protects consumers, strengthens financial oversight institutions and invest in community small business programs in the 28th District. This bill includes $130 million for Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) which provide local, in-person counseling and training services for small business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs throughout the country. (See attached bill language) Currently there are a number of Small Business Development Centers located throughout the South Texas region, providing business advising, training, and research services to its constituents. In the 28th District, Texas A & M International University (TAMIU), University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV), and the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) have all partnered with SBDCs. These centers help provide small business owners with the opportunity to achieve long-term growth and profitability, which in turn, helps entrepreneurs and increases economic development. The congressman also helped secure $18 million for the STEP (State Trade & Export Promotion) Program, which provides funding for small business exporting assistance programs, helping entrepreneurs in South Texas remain competitive in a complex, growing global market. (See attached bill language) Alleviating Burden of Small Financial Institutions Congressman Cuellar has worked hard to build a strong record of support for small financial institutions. He recognizes that small businesses need the support of small banks in order to generate jobs and fund the local economy. In the bill, the congressman secured language directing banking regulators to specifically look to small institutions when considering exemptions. By doing so, this gives constituents in the 28th district more opportunities to apply for small loans, lowering consumer prices. (See attached bill language) The congressman has taken great strides to hold the government responsible for creating economic gridlock and discouraging legitimate financial transactions. Excess oversight and invasive regulations have constrained South Texas’ economic potential. With this bill, Congressman Cuellar has placed pressure on federal regulators to instead facilitate the growth of our local small businesses. He has emphasized that growth must be attained at the grassroots level with increased disbursement of and greater access to credit. The bill also includes language that encourages legitimate financial transactions to move freely and globally, which has a direct impact on trade between the United States and Mexico. Mexico is the United States’ second-largest export partner and third-largest import partner. Laredo’s five ports account for 363,000 jobs, 32 percent of all international trade in Texas and $52 billion of Texas’ gross domestic product. (See attached bill language) “As a former small business owner, I understand how difficult it can be to comply with burdensome regulations while staying afloat. The need for credit to keep your doors open and support your employees’ jobs is critical,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy— this funding will help eliminate heavy burdens and increase job growth in my district. It will also alleviate regulations on small financial institutions, increase trade with other countries and lower prices for consumer goods.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Graves and Ranking Member Quigley for helping me secure these funds.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Last week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped pass H.R. 50, the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act of 2017, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This bill will benefit rural underserved communities and small businesses through unfunded mandate reform. An unfunded mandate is a statue or regulation that requires a state or local government or private business to perform certain actions, with no compensatory funding to fulfill such requirement. This bill represents a significant improvement on the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA), passed by Congress in 1995. This legislation was designed to prevent the federal government from imposing unfunded mandates onto state and local governments or private businesses without policymakers or the public knowing the costs of such policies. Before promulgating a final rule, UMRA requires agencies to undertake an assessment of the anticipated costs and benefits of a federal mandate. For rules costing over $100 million, UMRA requires the agency to identify and consider a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives and select the least costly, most cost-effective, or least burdensome alternative that achieves the rule's objectives. In practice, however, agencies oftentimes proceed through the regulatory process in a way that allows them to avoid UMRA's requirements. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has found that many statues and final rules containing significant unfunded mandates were enacted without being identified as federal mandates above UMRA's thresholds. Additionally, businesses currently have no recourse if agencies do not live up to UMRA's requirements. After hearing from many bipartisan groups, such as the Chamber of Commerce, Council of State Governments, the International City/County Management Association, the National Association of Counties, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the National Governors Association, the National League of Cities, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors about these issues, Reps. Cuellar and Virginia Foxx introduced H.R. 50. The bill would close many of UMRA's loopholes by requiring that agencies consult with the private sector when considering new rules and regulations, and providing judicial review of agency application of UMRA. Congressman Cuellar's district has a number of rural, underserved communities that need as many resources as they can get. Imposing unfunded mandates on these kinds of communities makes it even more difficult for hardworking Americans to access basic needs, such as water infrastructure, sanitary water, and adequate living conditions. Additionally, H.R. 50's requirement that federal agencies consult with the private sector when issuing regulations benefits business owners. As a former small business owner, Congressman Cuellar understands the challenges of opening and operating a business. Unfunded mandates on businesses mean higher costs for entrepreneurs, making it more difficult for them run their business, which means blunted economic growth for the communities that need it the most, like many in Texas. "During my time in the Texas State Legislature, I introduced and passed the state’s first unfunded mandate reform bill. That’s why I co-sponsored this bill, which restores a commonsense framework that will provide clarity to small businesses and local governments and allow workers and entrepreneurs to freely pursue their dreams,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Bottom line, this bill will create more certainty for our nation’s businesses to invest in the future and allow more Americans to achieve the dream of businesses ownership. I encourage my colleagues from both parties to support local communities and small businesses by supporting this legislation. I thank Chairwoman Foxx for introducing this measure with me, and I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure its passage.” Watch video of the Congressman Speaking on the House Floor here. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks on the U.S. House of Representatives Floor in Washington last Friday.
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON- La semana pasada, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) ayudó a aprobar la ley H.R. 50, Ley de Información y Transparencia de Mandatos Sin Fondos (Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act) del 2017, en la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos. Este proyecto de ley beneficiará a comunidades rurales y pequeñas empresas a través de una reforma de mandatos no financiados. Un mandato sin fondos es un estatuto o reglamento que requiere que un gobierno estatal o local, o un negocio privado realice ciertas acciones, sin fondos compensatorios para cumplir con dicho requisito. Este proyecto de ley representa una mejora significativa en la Ley de Reforma de Mandatos Sin Fondos (UMRA por sus siglas en inglés), aprobada por el Congreso en 1995. Esta legislación fue diseñada para evitar que el gobierno federal imponga mandatos no financiados a gobiernos estatales y locales o a empresas privadas sin que los legisladores o el público conozcan el costo de tales políticas. Antes de promulgar un orden final, UMRA requiere que las agencias realicen una evaluación de los costos y beneficios anticipados de un mandato federal. Para los mandatos que cuestan más de $100 millones de dólares, UMRA requiere que la agencia identifique y considere una cantidad razonable de alternativas regulatorias y seleccione la alternativa menos costosa y más eficaz que logre los objetivos del mandato. En la práctica, sin embargo, las agencias a menudo proceden a través del proceso regulatorio de una manera que les permite evitar los requisitos de UMRA. La Oficina de Responsabilidad Gubernamental (GAO) ha descubierto que muchos estatutos y reglas finales que contienen importantes mandatos no financiados se promulgaron sin ser identificadas como mandatos federales por encima de los umbrales de UMRA. Además, las empresas actualmente no tienen ningún recurso si las agencias no cumplen con los requisitos de UMRA. Después de escuchar a muchos grupos bipartidistas, como la Cámara de Comercio, el Consejo de Gobiernos Estatales, la Asociación Internacional de Administración de Ciudades/Condados, la Asociación Nacional de Condados, la Conferencia Nacional de Legislaturas Estatales, la Asociación Nacional de Gobernadores, la Liga Nacional de Ciudades y la Conferencia de Alcaldes de EE. UU. sobre estos temas, los Representantes Henry Cuellar y Virginia Foxx presentaron el proyecto de ley H.R. 50. Este proyecto de ley eliminaría muchos tecnicismos de la UMRA al requerir que las agencias consulten con el sector privado cuando consideren nuevas reglas y regulaciones, y proporcionen revisión judicial de aplicación de la agencia de UMRA. El distrito del Congresista Cuéllar incluye una serie de comunidades rurales marginadas que tienen una gran necesidad de recursos. Imponer mandatos sin fondos en este tipo de comunidades hace que sea aún más difícil para los estadounidenses trabajadores acceder a las necesidades más básicas como la infraestructura de abastecimiento de agua, el agua sanitaria y condiciones de vida adecuadas. Además, el requerimiento de la ley H.R. 50 a que las agencias federales consulten con el sector privado al emitir reglamentaciones beneficia a los dueños de negocios. Como ex propietario de una pequeña empresa, el Congresista Cuéllar comprende los desafíos de abrir y operar un negocio. Los mandatos no financiados sobre negocios implican mayores costos para los empresarios, lo que les dificulta el funcionamiento de sus negocios. Esto conlleva a un menor crecimiento económico para las comunidades que más lo necesitan, como muchas en Texas. "Durante mi tiempo en la Legislatura Estatal de Texas presenté y aprobé el primer proyecto de ley de reforma de mandatos sin fondos del estado. Es por eso que copatrociné este proyecto de ley que restablece una estructura de sentido común que proporcionará claridad a las pequeñas empresas y gobiernos locales y que les permitirá a los trabajadores y empresarios seguir libremente sus sueños," dijo el Congresista Cuéllar. "En resumen, este proyecto de ley creará más certeza para que las empresas de nuestra nación inviertan en el futuro y permitirá que más estadounidenses logren su sueño de ser propietarios de sus propias empresas. Invito a mis colegas de ambos partidos a apoyar a las comunidades locales y las pequeñas empresas por medio de esta legislación. Le agradezco a la Presidenta del Comité Virgina Foxx por copatrocinar esta medida y continuaré trabajando con mis colegas de ambos lados de la hilera para asegurar su promulgación." Vea el video del Congresista dando un discurso en la Cámara de Representantes aquí. El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en la Cámara de Representantes de EE.UU. en Washington, D.C., el viernes pasado. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today on President Trump’s meeting and press conference with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki: “The U.S. intelligence community has clearly concluded that Russia engaged in state-sponsored interference with the U.S. 2016 Presidential election. It is troubling that our President sees an equivalency between the unbiased and qualified expertise of our intelligence community and the personal word of Russian President Putin. President Trump’s disregard of our intelligence is a disservice to the American people and greatly undermines our Democratic values.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included language in the fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill markup addressing issues pertaining to immigrant family separations and unaccompanied immigrant children at the U.S.-Mexico border. He secured the following provisions: one that would allow the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) detention facilities to accept in-kind (non-monetary) donations such as toys, medical services, and educational materials; a second that would hold HHS-funded detention facilities accountable for any Federal, State, or local code violations in order to protect immigrant children; a third that would ensure no member of Congress can be prevented from overseeing the condition and state of operations in any child detainment center; and a fourth that creates greater transparency with regard to the status of reunifying immigrant families. The Congressman also co-sponsored amendments that direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to work in collaboration with the Secretary of DHS to address issues of immigrant family separation in a variety of ways. Specifically, these amendments direct federal agencies to improve transparency in their efforts to reunite immigrant families, ensure that the nutritional and medical needs of immigrant children are met, require separated immigrant children to be kept together with their siblings whenever possible, and increase open lines of communication between parents and children. This bill passed full committee markup today and will move to the House and Senate floors for a vote later this summer. Congressman Cuellar’s Secured Provisions: 1. In-kind Donations Amendment - Enables the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) to accept in-kind donations from the private sector, nongovernmental organizations, and other groups independent from the Federal government. This amendment will ensure that the ORR is given ample supplies in the form of in-kind donations, including medical goods and services, school supplies, toys, clothing, and any other items that will help provide for the care of unaccompanied immigrant children in HHS custody. 2. Detention Facility Violations Amendment - Directs the ORR to maintain strict oversight of the care provider facilities it funds and to immediately address any violations of Federal, State or local codes related to the wellbeing of children and standards of childcare. 3. Reunification Reporting Amendment - Directs the ORR to regularly report on the number of children in its custody who have been separated, the length of those separations, the status of subsequent reunification efforts, and the number of successful reunifications. 4. Assurance of Congressional Oversight Amendment - Guarantees that no funding will be used to prevent a Member of the U.S. Congress from entering, for the purposes of conducting oversight, any facility in the United States, used for the purposes of detaining or housing immigrant children. See amendment language here. See video from the markup here on providing proper care at immigrant children facilities. See video from the markup here on increasing transparency at immigrant children facilities. Congressman Cuellar’s Co-Sponsored Amendments: 1. Expedited Reunification Amendment - Directs HHS ORR to return separated children to their families expeditiously and to report back to Congress on its efforts. This amendment will ensure that the ORR maintains its commitment to reunify all families as quickly as possible. (Read amendment language here) 2. Basic Health Needs Amendment – Directs ORR to provide for the basic needs of children in its custody and to report on its efforts, with a focus on trauma and mental health. This amendment also sets strict standards of oversight regarding the status of the most innocent and vulnerable detainees at the border. (Read amendment language here) 3. Detainment with Siblings Amendment - Ensures that separated immigrant children who are detained at the border are held with their siblings whenever possible. (Read amendment language here) 4. Open Lines of Communication Amendment- Directs HHS to create open lines of communication between unaccompanied or separated immigrant children in custody and their parents, relatives, legal guardians, or primary caregivers who are also in custody, living abroad, or in the U.S. Efforts will be made to communicate the location of the children and their condition as well as determine any special care considerations, with emphasis on medical needs. (Read amendment language here) For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a top priority to improve the conditions of and increase oversight at detention facilities along the border. In 2014, the Congressman was one of the first members of Congress to reveal the need for improvement at border detention facilities. Since then, he has worked to ensure the humane and dignified treatment of those who come to America’s borders. In previous appropriations bills, Congressman Cuellar secured language directing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to make available food, water, and medical care to families in custody at the border. His language also increased unannounced inspections of ICE and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) detention facilities, ensuring that these centers are in compliance with regulations and treat the immigrants in their custody humanely. This document includes Congressman Cuellar’s appropriations language on improving conditions and increasing oversight at detention centers from fiscal year 2015 through 2019. Recent reports indicate that there are currently 11,800 separated or unaccompanied immigrant children in 14 states under the care of approximately 100 shelters subcontracted by HHS, 37 of which are in Texas. These shelters are intended to provide housing, nutrition, physical and mental healthcare, education, and recreation such as television and sports for unaccompanied minors, and the facilities are operated by nonprofit grantees certified by state authorities responsible for regulating facilities housing children. To bring additional attention the separated children at the border, Congressman Cuellar also sent a letter in June to President Trump. The letter urged him to visit the U.S.-Mexico border to see firsthand the impact separation is having on innocent children and their families, and to keep immigrant families together while finding ways to achieve practical solutions that minimize trauma to unaccompanied alien children. (See the letter to President Trump here). “The well-being of undocumented immigrants and their families while in custody or detention has been a top priority of mine for years. In 2014, I was one of the first people to bring national attention to the mass detention of unaccompanied minors arriving at the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Since then, I have secured language through the Appropriations process to increase oversight and transparency in our country’s detention facilities and improve our immigration system, ensuring appropriate treatment of immigrant detainees while in HHS custody and addressing the root causes of immigration.” “While I believe in upholding our immigration laws, I also believe in the humane and dignified treatment of every person that comes to America’s borders. Although we have taken proper steps to address the issue of family separation, more needs to be done. That is why I supported and included provisions in the FY19 labor, health, and education spending bill that ensure HHS has ample resources to deal with the migration of thousands of families and unaccompanied minors to our southern border. This language will increase accountability and oversight when it comes to treating immigrant families fairly and with dignity.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for helping include this funding that will help address the issue of immigrant family separation at our southern border. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on finding practical, long-term solutions to fix our broken immigration system.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped include over $1.5 billion in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to expand education programs for low-income students and Hispanic student populations. Specifically, this bill provides funding for Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), Federal TRiO Programs and Pell grants. It also helps establish partnerships with higher education institutions, including Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and other minority serving institutions. There are more than a dozen HSIs in or near Congressman Cuellar’s district, including Laredo Community College, South Texas College, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word, and Texas A&M International University. This bill passed full committee markup on Wednesday and is scheduled to move for a vote on the House and Senate Floors this summer. Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs Congressman Cuellar helped secure $360 million for Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), a $10 million increase from FY18. GEAR UP Programs are designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. GEAR UP provides six-year grants that provide funding for services at high-poverty middle and high schools. They also provide college scholarships to low-income students and fund support services for students including tutoring, mentoring, offering dual enrollment classes and college tours. The objectives of these programs are to increase academic performance and preparation for postsecondary education, increase high school graduation and postsecondary participation rates, and increase families’ knowledge of postsecondary options, preparation, and finances. Universities throughout the 28th District of Texas have greatly benefited from this funding. In 2017, Congressman Cuellar announced that the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) was awarded $21.2 million to operate GEAR UP Programs. As part of the grant, UTRGV, Valley school districts and community partners matched the U.S. Department of Education’s funding, providing more than $42 million to benefit students in the Rio Grande Valley. Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) in Laredo has also used GEAR UP funds to prepare over 8,000 students, in 20 school districts throughout South Texas (See attached bill language). Dr. Minita Ramirez, Vice President for Student Success for Texas A&M International University said, “Thanks to Congressman Henry Cuellar and the Department of Education. Through the GEAR UP Grant, Texas A&M International University has been able to help thousands of South Texas' most promising students realize their potential and the opportunities formal higher education makes real. These GEAR UP students realize the long-term impact good education has for themselves and their families. This program and others like it open doors, create dreams, and fuel hopes for brighter futures.” “These funds allow UTRGV to expose more students to higher education and careers related to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM),” UTRGV President Guy Bailey said. “This grant would not have been possible without the support of the Valley’s congressional leaders, U.S. Reps. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) and Filemón Vela (TX-34).” Federal TRiO Programs This bill also includes over 1 billion for Federal TRiO Programs, a $50 million increase from FY18. TRiO programs are federal outreach and student services programs designed to help individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds progress through their academic careers from middle school to post baccalaureate programs. These programs primarily serve low-income, first-generation college students, as well as students with disabilities, veterans, homeless youth, foster youth, and individuals underrepresented in graduate education (See attached bill language). At Texas A&M International University (TAMIU), the TRiO Student Support Services (SSS) Program helps increase college retention and graduation rates of its participants. TRiO SSS supports its students by offering academic tutoring, personal and academic counseling, and leadership conferences. Because of on-going support for program participants, TRiO SSS students continuously outperform non-program participants with increased retention, higher grades, and higher graduation rates. In the 2016-17 school year, TRiO’s retention rate was 93%, good academic standing was 94%, and the graduation rate was 61%, showing just how valuable the program is to TAMIU students and the community. Congressman Cuellar hopes to receive increased funding as the appropriations process continues. Pell Grants Congressman Cuellar announced that he helped maintain the maximum award for Pell Grants, $6,095, which will provide support to students with financial need, who have not earned their first bachelor's degree, or who are enrolled in certain post-baccalaureate programs, through participating institutions. This continues funding for year-round, or "Summer," Pell Grants, that will provide approximately 1 million students nationwide with an additional grant averaging $1,650. More than 29,000 students in Texas’ 28th Congressional district received Pell Grants for the 2016-2017 school year, adding up to more than $122 million distributed to students in Congressman Cuellar’s district. Universities in the South Texas region and their percentage of Pell Grant recipients (for which the latest National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) data is available) who are first time, full-time degree seekers: Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) 42% Hallmark University (San Antonio) 58% Laredo Community College 74% Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) 44% Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) 64% Palo Alto College (San Antonio) 66% South Texas College (McAllen) 79% St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) 48% St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) 63% Texas A&M International University (Laredo) 67% The University of Texas at San Antonio 45% The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio 28% The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley 69% University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) 46% Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) 56% Texas A&M San Antonio 64% Securing Millions for Hispanic Serving Institutions Congressman Cuellar’s additional wins include millions to serve Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs). This includes $123 million to develop HSIs program, which provides grants to assists HSIs expand educational opportunities for, and improve the attainment of, Hispanic students. This bill also includes $44.6 million to help promote post baccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Programs including the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP). Both of these programs provide grants to expand post baccalaureate educational opportunities for Hispanic students. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. We need to ensure that every student, regardless of their economic background, is prepared to compete in a 21st-century, competitive job market. These programs provide academic assistance to first-generation and disadvantaged students in college, ensuring that they have the resources they need to succeed.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro, for helping me secure these funds. This money will ensure that low-income students get the education and opportunities they deserve.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. See video from the markup here. See attached bill language here. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON- El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) ayudó a asegurar $1.4 mil millones de dólares, un aumento de $52 millones del año fiscal 2018, en la Ley de Asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. para el Programa Impact Aid que apoya la educación de niños del personal militar, incluidos niños que viven en tierras tribales y bases militares en todo el país, incluyendo San Antonio, Military City, EE. UU. El proyecto de ley también financia programas destinados a apoyar a familias militares que tienen niños con autismo, discapacidades intelectuales, deformidades físicas, impedimentos visuales o auditivos y desórdenes de salud mental. Este proyecto de ley fue aprobado por el comité el día de hoy y está programado para votación en la Cámara de Representantes y el Senado este verano. Los Distritos Escolares Independientes (Independent School Districts, ISD) en Texas y en todo el país dependen en gran medida del financiamiento de Impact Aid para apoyar a los niños de nuestro personal militar. En el distrito del Congresista Cuéllar, estas regiones incluyen los Distritos Escolares Independientes de San Antonio de Randolph Field, Lackland, Fort Sam Houston y Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City, que usan dinero asegurado en proyectos de ley para financiar varios proyectos de construcción y expansión. Las tierras controladas por el gobierno federal, las reservas tribales y las viviendas de alquiler bajo en todo el país no están sujetas a impuestos estatales o locales, lo que significa que estas jurisdicciones no reciben ingresos fiscales. Esto significa que las escuelas en estas regiones no reciben ingresos de los gobiernos locales y estatales, lo que afecta el nivel de educación que reciben los estudiantes. El programa Impact Aid subsidia escuelas y proyectos educativos en estas jurisdicciones exentas de impuestos para garantizar que los estudiantes reciban una educación de calidad. En el año fiscal 2017, el Departamento de Educación (DOE) informó que se proporcionó un estimado de $5.13 millones para miles de niños que asisten a escuelas en los Distritos Escolares Independientes de Judson Independent y Randolph Field en el área local de San Antonio. En el pasado, la preparatoria Randolph High School en San Antonio ha utilizado la subvención del Departamento de Educación para cubrir $10.4 millones en costos de proyectos que se han utilizado para la construcción de una nueva cafetería y gimnasio, beneficiando a los estudiantes y el personal del Randolph Field ISD. (Consulte el lenguaje legislativo adjunto) "Debemos asegurarnos de que los estudiantes que van a la escuela en las bases militares o en sus alrededores reciban una educación de calidad", dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Los niños no deberían ser penalizados de acuerdo a si su escuela se encuentra o no en terrenos controlados por el gobierno federal. Ayudé a asegurar estos fondos para que todos los niños tengan la oportunidad de conocer y superar su potencial intelectual y alcanzar sus objetivos profesionales." El Congresista Cuellar agregó: "Quiero agradecer a mis compañeros del Comité de Asignaciones, al Presidente del Subcomité de Asignaciones de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas Tom Cole, y a la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudarme a asegurar estos fondos. Este dinero asegurará que todos, incluidos los niños en bases militares y comunidades hispanas subrepresentadas, obtengan las oportunidades y la educación que merecen." El Superintendente de Randolph Field ISD, Lance Johnson, declaró: "El programa Impact Aid es fundamental, no solo para el éxito de nuestros estudiantes, sino también para la existencia del distrito escolar Randolph Field ISD como una institución de excelencia en educación. Sin esto, simplemente no podríamos permanecer abiertos. El Congresista Cuellar ha sido defensor del programa Impact Aid durante mucho tiempo. El entiende completamente la obligación del gobierno federal con las escuelas como la nuestra con respecto a este programa y la parte crucial que desempeña en la vida de nuestras familias militares. Apreciamos mucho su liderazgo, apoyo y comprensión mientras servimos a los estudiantes de las familias que sirven a nuestra nación." El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en el Marcado del Comité de Asignaciones de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. del año fiscal 2019 en Washington el miércoles 11 de julio. Vea el video del comité aquí Vea el lenguaje legislativo aqui ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced his success in helping secure $85 million in funding in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations bill for state grants for child abuse prevention. These funds will provide states with the means for improving their child protective service systems (CPS). In addition, he secured $1.5 million to develop and expand a national child abuse hotline which will provide youth seeking assistance with much needed improved access to crisis resources. This bill passed full committee markup on Wednesday and is scheduled for a vote on the House and Senate Floors this summer. Reauthorized by the Keeping Children and Families Safe Act of 2003, the State Child Abuse Prevention program requires states to provide assurances in their five-year Child and Family Services plan that the State is operating a statewide child abuse and neglect program that includes several requirements, such as: • Policies and procedures that address the needs of drug-exposed infants; • Procedures for referral, in order of risk level, of children not at imminent risk of harm to community or preventative services; • Training for CPS workers on their legal duties and parents’ rights; and • Provisions to refer children under age three who are involved in a case to early intervention services. This funding will assist states with meeting the expectation of the grants and also allow them to place a greater emphasis on the prevention-related activities to help strengthen and support families that are brought to the attention of CPS agencies across the country. The Children’s Bureau, a federal agency tasked with improving the lives of children and families, is also working with the country’s National Child Welfare Resource Centers to provide training and technical assistance to the states on best practices for CPS. Additionally, the Congressman helped secure $1.5 million, a $500,000 increase from FY18, for an extramural grant to develop and expand a child abuse hotline to determine best practices in appropriate communication, identity verification, privacy protection, and resource sharing with victims seeking assistance. “In FY2016, state and local child protection agencies carried out child protection responses involving 3.5 million children,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is why I worked to secure funding for both child abuse prevention services and an improved child abuse hotline. No child deserves to be abused, and it is essential that we do everything in our power as lawmakers to ensure that child abuse victims have all the resources they need to recover and be safe.” “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for helping include these provisions that will benefit abused children who need help.” Congressman Cuellar’s additional wins include: • $22.3 million for Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC). The mission of EMSC is to reduce child and youth mortality and morbidity resulting from severe illness or trauma. EMSC’s major programs focus on state partnerships which ensure that pediatric emergency care is integrated into the larger emergency medical services system. This includes the development of systems and infrastructures to improve pediatric emergency care capacity in rural and tribal communities. • $49.4 million for CDC’s Rape Prevention and Education (RPE) program. RPE works collaboratively with diverse stakeholders, including state sexual violence coalitions, educational institutions, rape crisis centers, community organizations and other state agency partners to guide implementation of their state sexual violence prevention efforts. Their approach involves promoting comprehensive initiatives to address the factors that contribute to risk for sexual violence and fostering the factors that protect against sexual violence. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. See video from the markup here. See attached bill language here. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) anunció el haber ayudado a asegurar con éxito $85 millones de dólares en fondos en la Ley de Asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. para la prevención del abuso infantil. Estos fondos proporcionarán a los estados los medios para mejorar sus sistemas de Servicios de Protección Infantil (CPS por sus siglas en inglés). Además, se aseguraron $1.5 millones para desarrollar y expandir una línea directa a nivel nacional de abuso infantil que proporcionará a los jóvenes que buscan asistencia con un acceso mejorado y mejores recursos de crisis. Este proyecto de ley fue aprobado por el comité el día miércoles y está programado para votación en la Cámara de Representantes y el Senado este verano. Reautorizado por la ley Keeping Children and Families Safe Act del 2003, el programa de prevención State Child Abuse Prevention requiere que los estados garanticen en su plan quinquenal de servicios para niños y familias que el estado está llevando a cabo un programa estatal de abuso y negligencia infantil que incluye varios requisitos tal como: • Políticas y procedimientos que abordan las necesidades de los bebés expuestos a las drogas; • Procedimientos para derivación, en orden de nivel de riesgo, de niños que no corren un riesgo inminente de daño a servicios comunitarios o preventivos; • Capacitación para los trabajadores de CPS en sus deberes legales y derechos de los padres; y • Disposiciones de referencia? para recomendar a los niños menores de tres años que participan en un caso a los servicios de intervención temprana. Este financiamiento ayudará a los estados a cumplir con las expectativas de los subsidios y también les permitirá poner un mayor énfasis en las actividades relacionadas con la prevención para ayudar a fortalecer y apoyar a las familias que atraen la atención de las agencias de CPS en todo el país. La Oficina del Niño del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (The Children’s Bureau), una agencia federal encargada de mejorar las vidas de los niños y sus familias, también está trabajando con los Centros Nacionales de Recursos de Bienestar Infantil para proporcionar capacitación y asistencia técnica a los estados sobre las mejores prácticas para CPS. Adicionalmente, el Congresista ayudó a asegurar $1.5 millones de dólares, un aumento de $500,000 del año fiscal 2018, designados a una subvención externa para desarrollar y expandir una línea directa de abuso infantil, para determinar mejores prácticas en comunicación apropiada, verificación de identidad, protección de privacidad y compartir recursos con víctimas que buscan asistencia. "En el año fiscal 2016, las agencias estatales y locales de protección infantil llevaron a cabo acciones de protección infantil que involucraron a 3.5 millones de niños. Esta es la razón por la que trabajé para asegurar el financiamiento para los servicios de prevención de abuso infantil y una línea directa mejorada de abuso infantil. Ningún niño merece ser maltratado, y es esencial que hagamos todo lo que esté a nuestro alcance como legisladores para garantizar que las víctimas de abuso infantil tengan todos los recursos que necesitan para recuperarse y estar a salvo,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. "Quiero agradecer a mis compañeros del Comité de Asignaciones, al Presidente del Subcomité de Asignaciones de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas Tom Cole, y a la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudar a incluir estas provisiones que beneficiaran a niños víctimas de abuso que necesitan ayuda.” Lenguaje de Ley adicional que fue exitosamente incluido por el Congresista Cuellar • $22.3 millones de dólares para Servicios Médicos de Emergencia para Niños (EMSC por sus siglas en inglés). La misión de EMSC es reducir la mortalidad y la morbilidad infantil y juvenil como resultado de una enfermedad grave o trauma. Los programas principales de EMSC se centran en asociaciones estatales que aseguran que la atención de emergencia pediátrica se integre en el sistema más grande de servicios médicos de emergencia. Esto incluye el desarrollo de sistemas e infraestructuras para mejorar la capacidad de atención de emergencia pediátrica en comunidades rurales y tribales. • $49.4 millones de dólares para el programa de Prevención y Educación de Violación (RPE por sus siglas en inglés) del CDC (Centro para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades). El programa RPE trabaja en colaboración con diversos grupos interesados , incluidas coaliciones estatales de violencia sexual, instituciones educativas, centros de crisis por violación, organizaciones comunitarias y otras agencias estatales asociadas para guiar la implementación de sus esfuerzos estatales de prevención de la violencia sexual. Su enfoque implica promover iniciativas integrales para abordar los factores que contribuyen al riesgo de violencia sexual y fomentar los factores que protegen contra la violencia sexual. El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en el Marcado del Comité de Asignaciones de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. del año fiscal 2019 en Washington el miércoles 11 de julio. Vea el video del comité aquí Vea el lenguaje legislativo aqui ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced over $500 million in funding in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations bill for educational programs supporting migrant and farmworker students. With this funding, Texas educators will be able to continue to dismantle barriers to education for our migrant families. The Congressman additionally included language that directs the Department of Education to spend over $500 million over the next fiscal year on these programs. This bill passed full committee markup on Wednesday and is scheduled for a vote on the House and Senate Floors this summer. Education for Migrant Students Congressman Cuellar has ensured that $374.7 million of maximum federal funding will go towards the State Agency Program for Migrant Education. This program supports special educational and related services for children of migrant agricultural workers and fishermen. These services will include supplementary academic education, remedial or compensatory instruction, English for limited English proficient students, testing, guidance counseling and other activities to promote services toward migrant children whose education is interrupted by frequent moves. These funds are critical to families who make their living in agriculture and whose children should not be penalized in any manner due to frequent relocations. (See attached bill language) High School Equivalency Program and the College Assistance Programs The Congressman also helped include $44.6 million dollars in maximum funding towards the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP), special programs supporting migrant students. These programs make grants to colleges, universities and non-profit organizations to support educational programs designated for students who are engaged in migrant and other seasonal farm work. HEP provides academic and support services to help students obtain a high school equivalency certificate and subsequently gain employment or admission to a postsecondary institution or training program. CAMP provides tutoring and counseling services to first-year, undergraduate migrant students and assists those students in obtaining student financial aid for their remaining undergraduate years. These programs will provide access and expand opportunities to higher education for migrant South Texas students who deserve the same opportunities as other children in the U.S. (See attached bill language) Job Training for Migrant Workers The National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) will also receive $87.8 million due to Congressman Cuellar’s efforts. The NFJP provides job training, employment assistance, and other supportive services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers and their dependents with the goal of helping farmworkers secure full-time employment. Farmworkers who depend primarily on jobs in agricultural labor and who have experienced unemployment and underemployment as a result will benefit greatly in their pursuit of stable employment due to this funding. (See attached bill language) “I understand the situation of students who are migrant workers or seasonal farmworkers because my own parents were migrant workers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Everyone deserves an equal chance to reap the benefits of higher education, even those students whose grades suffer because they are working in the fields. These federal funds are an investment in our younger generation and our future local workforce. I will continue to work to secure funding for programs that empower our community and open the doors of opportunities for those who are not familiar with collegiate life.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank my fellow Appropriators and Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for helping include this funding that will help migrant workers and their families receive the means of obtaining a quality education.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. See video from the markup here. See attached bill language here. ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) anunció más de $500 millones de dólares en fondos en la Ley de Asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. para programas educativos que apoyan a estudiantes migrantes y trabajadores agrícolas. Con estos fondos, los educadores de Texas podrán continuar rompiendo las barreras para la educación de nuestras familias migrantes. El congresista también incluyó lenguaje legislativo que ordena al Departamento de Educación invertir más de $500 millones durante el próximo año fiscal en estos programas. Este proyecto de ley fue aprobado por el comité el día miércoles y está programado para votación en la Cámara de Representantes y el Senado este verano. Educación para estudiantes migrantes El Congresista Cuellar se ha asegurado de que $374.7 millones de los fondos federales se destinarán al Programa de la Agencia Estatal para la Educación Migrante (State Agency Program for Migrant Education). Este programa apoya programas de educación especial (para niños con discapacidades) y los servicios relacionados para los hijos de trabajadores agrícolas y pescadores migrantes. Estos servicios incluirán educación académica suplementaria, instrucción correctiva o compensatoria, inglés para estudiantes con dominio limitado del inglés, pruebas, orientación y otras actividades para promover los servicios hacia los niños migrantes cuya educación se ve interrumpida por mudanzas frecuentes. Estos fondos son fundamentales para las familias que se ganan la vida a través de la agricultura y cuyos hijos no deben ser penalizados de ninguna manera debido a las reubicaciones frecuentes. (Consulte el lenguaje legislativo adjunto) Programa de Equivalencia de Escuela Secundaria y Programas de Asistencia Universitaria El Congresista también ayudó a incluir $44.6 millones de dólares en fondos para el Programa de Equivalencia de la Escuela Secundaria (High School Equivalency Program, HEP por sus siglas en inglés) y el Programa Migratorio de Asistencia Universitaria (CAMP por sus siglas en inglés), programas especiales que apoyan a los estudiantes migrantes. Estos programas otorgan subsidios a colegios comunitarios, universidades y organizaciones sin fines de lucro para apoyar programas educativos designados para estudiantes que participan en trabajos agrícolas migratorios y de otro tipo. HEP proporciona servicios académicos y de apoyo para ayudar a los estudiantes a obtener un certificado de equivalencia de la escuela de nivel secundario (preparatoria) y, posteriormente, obtener un empleo o la admisión a una institución postsecundaria o un programa de capacitación. CAMP brinda servicios de tutoría y asesoramiento a estudiantes migrantes de primer año de universidad y ayuda a esos estudiantes a obtener ayuda financiera para estudiantes durante los años restantes de educación superior. Estos programas brindarán acceso y ampliarán las oportunidades de educación superior para los estudiantes migrantes del sur de Texas que merecen las mismas oportunidades que otros jóvenes en los Estados Unidos. (Consulte el lenguaje legislativo adjunto) Capacitación laboral para trabajadores migrantes El Programa Nacional de Trabajadores Agrícolas (NFJP por sus siglas en inglés) también recibirá $87.8 millones gracias a los esfuerzos del Congresista Cuéllar. El NFJP ofrece capacitación laboral, asistencia laboral y otros servicios de apoyo para los trabajadores agrícolas migrantes y temporales y sus dependientes, con el objetivo de ayudar a los trabajadores agrícolas a obtener un empleo de tiempo completo. Gracias a este financiamiento, los trabajadores agrícolas que dependen principalmente de trabajos de agricultura y que han experimentado desempleo y subempleo como resultado se beneficiarán enormemente en su búsqueda de un empleo estable. (Consulte el lenguaje legislativo adjunto) "Entiendo la situación de los estudiantes que son trabajadores migrantes o trabajadores agrícolas de temporada porque mis propios padres eran trabajadores migrantes," dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. "Todos merecen la misma oportunidad de cosechar los beneficios de la educación superior, incluso aquellos estudiantes cuyas calificaciones son afectadas porque están trabajando en el campo. Estos fondos federales son una inversión en nuestra generación más joven y nuestra futura fuerza laboral local. Continuaré trabajando para asegurar fondos para programas que estimulan a nuestra comunidad y abren las puertas a nuevas oportunidades para aquellos que no están familiarizados con la vida universitaria." El Congresista Cuellar agregó: "Quiero agradecer a mis compañeros del Comité de Asignaciones, al Presidente del Subcomité de Asignaciones de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas Tom Cole, y a la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudar a incluir esta financiación que ayudará a los trabajadores migrantes y sus familias a recibir los medios para obtener una educación de calidad." El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en el Marcado del Comité de Asignaciones de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. del año fiscal 2019 en Washington el miércoles 11 de julio. Vea el video del comité aquí Vea el lenguaje legislativo aqui ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) ayudó a incluir más de $1.5 mil millones de dólares en fondos en la Ley de Asignaciones del año fiscal 2019 de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. para ampliar los programas de educación para estudiantes de bajos ingresos y estudiantes hispanos. Específicamente, este proyecto de ley proporciona fondos para Programas de Conciencia y Preparación Temprana para Programas Universitarios (GEAR UP por sus siglas en inglés), Programas Federales TRiO y becas Pell. También ayuda a establecer alianzas con instituciones de educación superior, incluyendo las Instituciones de Servicio para Hispanos (HSI), los Colegios y Universidades Tradicionales para Negros (Historically Black Colleges and Universities) y otras instituciones que prestan servicios a las minorías. Hay más de una docena de instituciones HSI en, o cerca, del distrito del Congresista Cuellar incluyendo Laredo Community College, South Texas College, Universidad de Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word y Texas A&M International University. Este proyecto de ley fue aprobado por el comité el día miércoles y está programado para votación en la Cámara de Representantes y el Senado este verano. Programas de Conciencia y Preparación Temprana para Programas Universitarios (GEAR UP) El Congresista Cuellar ayudó a asegurar $360 millones de dólares para Programas de Conciencia y Preparación Temprana para Programas Universitarios (GEAR UP), un aumento de $10 millones del año fiscal 2018. Los programas GEAR UP están diseñados para aumentar el número de estudiantes de bajos ingresos que están preparados para ingresar y tener éxito en la educación postsecundaria. GEAR UP proporciona subsidios por seis años que brindan fondos para servicios en escuelas secundarias y preparatorias con elevados índices de pobreza. También brindan becas universitarias para estudiantes de bajos ingresos y financian servicios de apoyo para estudiantes. Estos incluyen tutoría, clases de doble inscripción (dual-enrollment) y recorridos universitarios. Los objetivos de estos programas son aumentar el rendimiento académico y la preparación para la educación postsecundaria, aumentar la tasa de graduación de la escuela secundaria y las tasas de participación postsecundaria, y ayudar a las familias a ampliar su conocimiento en cuanto a opciones postsecundarias, preparación y finanzas. Las universidades de todo el Distrito 28 de Texas se han beneficiado enormemente a través de estos fondos. En el 2017, el Congresista Cuellar anunció que la Universidad de Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) recibió $21.2 millones para operar los programas GEAR UP. Como parte de la subvención, UTRGV, los distritos escolares del Valle de Texas y los socios de la comunidad igualaron los fondos del Departamento de Educación de EE. UU., proporcionando más de $42 millones para beneficiar a los estudiantes en el Valle del Río Grande. La universidad Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) en Laredo también ha utilizado los fondos de GEAR UP para preparar a más de 8,000 estudiantes, en 20 distritos escolares en todo el sur de Texas (Consulte el lenguaje legislativo adjunto) La Dra. Minita Ramirez, Vicepresidenta de Éxito Estudiantil de la La universidad Texas A&M International University dijo: "Gracias al Congresista Henry Cuellar y al Departamento de Educación. A través de la subvención GEAR UP, Texas A&M International University ha podido ayudar a miles de los estudiantes más prometedores del sur de Texas a darse cuenta de su potencial y las oportunidades que la educación superior puede hace realidad. Estos estudiantes de GEAR UP se dan cuenta del impacto a largo plazo que tiene la buena educación en sus vidas y las de sus familias. Este programa y otros similares abren puertas, crean sueños y avivan las esperanzas de un futuro mejor." "Estos fondos permiten a UTRGV a exponer a más estudiantes a la educación superior y carreras relacionadas con la ciencia, la tecnología, la ingeniería y las matemáticas (STEM), "dijo Guy Bailey, Presidente de la Universidad de Texas Rio Grande Valley. "Esta subvención no hubiera sido posible sin el apoyo de nuestros líderes del Valle quienes nos representan en el Congreso, los congresistas Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Vicente González (TX-15) y Filemón Vela (TX-34)." Programas federales TRiO Este proyecto de ley también incluye más de mil millones de dólares para los programas federales TRiO, un aumento de $50 millones del año fiscal 2018. Los programas TRiO son programas de alcance federal y servicios estudiantiles diseñados para ayudar a las personas de origen marginal a progresar a lo largo de sus carreras académicas, desde la escuela secundaria hasta los programas de postgrado. Estos programas sirven principalmente a estudiantes universitarios de primera generación y de bajos ingresos, así como a estudiantes con discapacidades, veteranos, jóvenes sin hogar, jóvenes con familias substitutas, e individuos con poca representación en la educación de posgrado (consulte el lenguaje de facturación adjunto). En la Universidad Texas A&M International University, el Programa de Servicios de Apoyo Estudiantil (SSS por sus siglas en inglés) de TRiO ayuda a aumentar la retención universitaria y las tasas de graduación de sus participantes. TRiO SSS apoya a sus estudiantes ofreciendo tutoría académica, consejería personal y académica y conferencias de liderazgo. Debido al continuo apoyo para los participantes del programa, los estudiantes de TRiO SSS superan continuamente a los participantes que no pertenecen al programa con una mayor retención, calificaciones más altas y tasas de graduación más altas. En el año escolar 2016-17, la tasa de retención de TRiO fue del 93%, el nivel aprobado de rendimiento académico fue del 94% y la tasa de graduación fue del 61%, lo que demuestra cuán valioso es el programa para los estudiantes de TAMIU y la comunidad. El Congresista Cuellar espera recibir mayores fondos a medida que el proceso de asignaciones continúa. Becas Pell El Congresista Cuellar anunció que ayudó a mantener la cantidad máxima para becas Pell (Pell Grants), $6,095, que proporcionará apoyo a estudiantes con necesidades financieras, que no hayan obtenido su primer título universitario o que estén inscritos en ciertos programas de posgrado, a través de instituciones participantes. Esto continuara financiando becas Pell durante todo el año semestres de "verano", que proporcionarán a aproximadamente 1 millón de estudiantes en todo el país una subvención adicional de $1,650 en promedio. Más de 29,000 estudiantes en el distrito 28 del Congreso de Texas recibieron becas Pell para el año escolar 2016-2017, sumando más de $122 millones distribuidos a los estudiantes en el distrito del Congresista Cuellar. Universidades en la región del sur de Texas y su porcentaje de beneficiarios de la Beca Pell (para la cual están disponibles los últimos datos del Centro Nacional de Estadísticas Educativas (NCES)) que son solicitantes por primera vez de un título de tiempo completo: Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) 42% Hallmark University (San Antonio) 58% Laredo Community College 74% Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) 44% Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) 64% Palo Alto College (San Antonio) 66% South Texas College (McAllen) 79% St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) 48% St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) 63% Texas A&M International University (Laredo) 67% The University of Texas at San Antonio 45% The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio 28% The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley 69% University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) 46% Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) 56% Texas A&M San Antonio 64% Asegurando millones para las Instituciones de Servicio para Hispanos (HSI) Logros adicionales del Congresista Cuellar incluyen millones para servir a las Instituciones de Servicio para Hispanos (HSI). Esto incluye $123 millones para desarrollar el programa de HSI, que proporciona subsidios para ayudar a HSI a ampliar las oportunidades educativas y mejorar el logro de los estudiantes hispanos. Este proyecto de ley también incluye $44.6 millones para ayudar a promover las oportunidades de post bachillerato para los programas para hispanoamericanos, incluido el Programa de Equivalencia de Escuela Secundaria (High School Equivalency Program, HEP) y el Programa de Asistencia Universitaria Migratoria (CAMP). Ambos programas brindan subsidios para ampliar las oportunidades educativas posteriores al bachillerato para estudiantes hispanos. "Sé de primera mano el poder transformador de la educación," explicó el Congresista Cuéllar. "Lo experimenté en mi propia vida. Debemos asegurarnos de que cada estudiante, independientemente de su origen económico, esté preparado para competir en un mercado laboral competitivo del siglo XXI. Estos programas brindan asistencia académica a estudiantes desfavorecidos y de primera generación en asistir a la universidad, asegurando que tengan los recursos que necesitan para tener éxito." El Congresista agrego, "quiero agradecer a mis compañeros del Comité de Asignaciones, al Presidente del Subcomité de Asignaciones de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Relacionadas Tom Cole, y a la Miembro de Mayor Rango Rosa DeLauro por ayudarme a asegurar estos fondos. Este dinero asegurará que los estudiantes de bajos ingresos obtengan la educación y las oportunidades que merecen.” El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) habla en el Marcado del Comité de Asignaciones de proyectos de Labor, Salud y Servicios Humanos, Educación y Agencias Gubernamentales Relacionadas de la Cámara de Representantes de los EE.UU. del año fiscal 2019 en Washington el miércoles 11 de julio. Vea el video del comité aquí Vea el lenguaje legislativo aqui ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) met with five members of the Congress of the Republic of Peru to discuss strengthening the country’s democracy, combatting narcotics trafficking, maintaining economic growth, and improving its health and agriculture sectors. U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) meets with members of the Congress of the Republic of Peru in Washington on Thursday. Pictured from left to right: Congressman Henry Cuellar, New Peru Movement Legislator Richard Arce Caceres, Facilitator Francesca Varda, Peruvians for Change Legislator Jorge Melendez Celis, Peruvians for Change Legislator Vicente Antonio Zeballos Salinas, Interpreter Susana Pimiento, and Legislative Fellow Paul Dubois ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON - Ayer, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28) se reunió con cinco miembros del Congreso de la República del Perú para discutir el fortalecimiento de la democracia del país, y maneras de combatir el narcotráfico, mantener el crecimiento económico y mejorar sus sectores de salud y agricultura. El Congresista de los Estados Unidos Henry Cuellar (TX-28) se reúne con miembros del Congreso de la República del Perú en Washington el jueves 12 de julio. En la foto de izquierda a derecha: El Congresista Henry Cuellar, Legislador del Movimiento Nuevo Perú Richard Arce Cáceres, Facilitadora Francesca Varda, Legislador de Peruanos por el Kambio (PPK) Jorge Meléndez Celis, Legislador de Peruanos por el Kambio Vicente Antonio Zeballos Salinas, Intérprete Susana Pimiento y Miembro Legislativo de la oficina del Congresista Cuellar Paul Dubois ###
07.12.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure $1.4 billion, a $52 million increase from fiscal year 2018, in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies bill for the Impact Aid program, which supports education for children of military personnel, including children living on tribal lands and military bases throughout the country, including San Antonio, Military City, U.S.A. The bill also funds programs aimed at supporting military families that have children with things like autism, intellectual disabilities, physical deformities, visual or hearing impairments, and mental health disorders. This legislation passed full committee markup yesterday and is scheduled to move for a vote on the House Floor this summer. Independent School Districts (ISDs) in Texas and across the country rely greatly on Impact Aid funding to support children of our military personnel. In Congressman Cuellar’s district, these regions include the San Antonio Independent School Districts of Randolph Field, Lackland, Fort Sam Houston, and Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City, which use money secured in appropriations bills to fund various construction and expansion projects. Federally-controlled lands, tribal reservations, and low-rent housing properties across the country are not subject to state or local taxes, which means these jurisdictions do not receive tax revenues. This means that schools in these regions do not receive revenue from the local and state governments, impacting the level of education students receive. The Impact Aid program subsidizes schools and education projects in these tax-exempt jurisdictions to ensure students receive a quality education. In fiscal year 2017, the Department of Education (DOE) reported that an estimated $5.13 million was provided for thousands of children attending schools in both the Judson Independent and Randolph Field Independent School Districts in the local San Antonio area. In the past, Randolph High School in San Antonio has used the Department of Education grant to cover $10.4 million in project costs that have been used towards the construction of a new cafeteria and gymnasium, benefiting the students and staff in the Randolph Field ISD. (See attached bill language) “We need to ensure that students who go to school in, or around, military bases receive a quality education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Children should not be penalized according to whether or not their school is located on federally-controlled land. I helped secured this funding so that all children have the opportunity to meet and exceed their intellectual potential and achieve their career goals.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Cole and Ranking Member DeLauro for helping me secure these funds. This money will ensure that everyone, including children on military bases and underrepresented Hispanic communities, get the opportunities and education they deserve.” Randolph Field ISD Superintendent Lance Johnson stated, "Impact aid is critical, not only to the success of our students, but to the existence of RFISD as an institution of excellence in education. Without it, we simply could not remain open. Congressman Cuellar has long been a champion for impact aid. He fully understands the federal governments obligation to schools such as ours with regards to this program, and the crucial part it plays in the lives of our military families. His leadership is greatly appreciated. We appreciate his continued support and understanding as we serve the students of the families who serve our nation." Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Government Agencies Appropriations Committee Markup for fiscal year 2019 in Washington on Wednesday. See video from the markup here. See attached bill language here.
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement on the nomination by President Donald Trump of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the United States Supreme Court: “Justice Kennedy was an outstanding man, and I have great respect for his career and years of service to this country. As a representative of the highest court in the nation, it is a Supreme Court justice’s duty to ensure that justice is served. As we look forward at Justice Kennedy’s replacement, I am hopeful that the President’s nominee will be able to proudly serve the American people in the same way. Supreme Court justices are arbiters of the highest court in the land, and as citizens we rely on them to make decisions that reflect the meaning of the Constitution. Now, more than ever, we need a Supreme Court Justice who will rise above ideology and protect the rights of each and every individual in this country. It is now up to our colleagues in the Senate to decide whether or not this replacement is well fit for the American people. I congratulate Brett Kavanaugh on his nomination as the next Supreme Court Justice.”
07.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement following the authorization of disaster funding from President Trump and FEMA for Cameron and Hidalgo counties. “I am very pleased with the authorization of FEMA disaster funding for Hidalgo and Cameron counties. Residents and business owners have suffered catastrophic property damage and loss after unprecedented severe weather and flooding in late June. My colleagues Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Brownsville, Rep. Vicente Gonzalez, D-McAllen and I sent a letter to President Trump expressing our support for Governor Abbott’s request. We requested that the President issued a disaster declaration for these counties and any counties that may rise to the level of need in the future. We also asked for him to direct federal agencies to expedite delivery of all forms of federal disaster assistance for which the state is eligible. Most recently, my office contacted the White House and FEMA to follow up on our initial request and to expedite the process. Once again, we see how strong Texans are in the in the midst difficult times. On behalf of my constituents, I want to thank Governor Abbot for requesting the authorization of FEMA disaster funding, and the President and his Administration for their action in this matter. I also want to thank our first responders, charities, organizations and volunteers who did not look the other way and extended a hand of help to those affected by the severe weather in Hidalgo and Cameron counties. Together, we will come out of this hardship stronger than ever before.” There are two types of disaster declarations provided for in the Stafford Act: emergency declarations and major disaster declarations. Both types of declaration authorize the President to provide supplemental federal disaster assistance. However, the events related to the two different types of declaration and scope and amount of assistance differ. For additional information on the disaster declaration process visit: https://www.fema.gov/disaster-declaration-process Applicants may apply for help from FEMA by registering on the website DisasterAssistance.gov. There is also a FEMA app for smartphones and tablets. People without internet access may sign up by calling (800) 621-FEMA (3362).
07.02.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the Mexican Presidency election results: “Congratulations to Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador on winning the election and becoming the next President of Mexico. Mexico is one of our most important allies and we value our relationship. I look forward to working with the new Mexican Administration on issues that are essential to both countries including NAFTA, security, immigration, and border infrastructure. Mexico should be seen as an ally and not as an enemy as some people see it. The Rio Grande/Rio Bravo River does not divide us, but rather unites us as two countries. This is a critical time for the U.S. and Mexico and I will continue to work to develop our binational cooperation.”
06.26.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released an update on the current immigration issue at the U.S.-Mexico border. This document includes Congressman Cuellar’s appropriations language on detention centers from fiscal year 2015 through 2019. It also provides the latest numbers on border crossings, locations of detention centers, and the most recent results of the Office of Inspector General FY 2016 Spot Inspections of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Family Detention Facilities. Finally, it includes photographs and information for the South Texas Family Residential Center (Dilley) in Dilley, Texas and the Karnes County Residential Center (Karnes) in Karnes, Texas which specifically handle family units. The Congressman has continued to give periodic updates, by providing a more comprehensive look at the migrant situation at the U.S.-Mexico border. See attachment here.
06.22.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding federal reimbursements to border communities who have provided humanitarian assistance during the surge of immigrants which began in 2014: “I’m glad to see our communities and nonprofits finally receive reimbursement for providing humanitarian aid,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I fought hard in Congress to author appropriation language that allows our local communities to be reimbursed with federal dollars for their humanitarian assistance. The City of McAllen, Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley, and the Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley, will receive over $350,000 in federal reimbursements for expenses the incurred, including food, transportation, shelter, and medical care provided to unaccompanied minors crossing the U.S. – Mexico border from 2014-2016 through the Humanitarian Relief for Unaccompanied Children and Families program. It’s been a long road to obtain these federal funds, but these reimbursements will allow the City of Mc Allen and our local charities to continue assisting our community.” In 2015, Congressman Cuellar added a provision in the federal appropriations bill that allowed the State of Texas to use Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funds to reimburse local governments and non-profits for their costs incurred to provide humanitarian relief. The State of Texas receives an average of $20 million a year from the State Homeland Security Program’s federal dollars which they can tap into to reimburse communities. At that time, the state used those funds for other priorities. Congressman Cuellar worked in coordination with State Senator Juan “Chuy” Hinojosa to add a measure into the state supplemental appropriations bill that directed the state government to reimburse communities. However, due to a miscommunication between FEMA and the State of Texas, the release of the funds was delayed. Congressman Cuellar communicated with FEMA to clarify the misunderstanding between the agency and the State of Texas on the interpretation of the law. In the past year, the Governor’s Homeland Security Grants Division worked closely with FEMA to ensure that requested expenses were documented and in line with FEMA’s Information Bulletin No. 418 which provided guidance on the use of funds for this purpose. Ultimately, FEMA determined that the following organizations were eligible for a grant award at the amounts noted below: · City of McAllen - $141,525.05 · Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valle - $205,792.61 · Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley, Inc. - $4,879.12
06.22.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure $595 million to address the root cause of migration to the U.S.-Mexico border in the fiscal year 2019 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations bill. He also included language directing the Department of State to expedite foreign assistance to Central America—particularly the countries of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Specifically, the language directs the State Department to submit its foreign assistance spending plan for Central America and to take steps to ensure that Central America receives the funds the Appropriations Committee has allocated within 60 days of the bill’s enactment. In 2015, the Congressman and members of the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Committee first secured $750 million for Central America to address turmoil in Central American countries. However, the State Department has not allocated this money quickly. As a result, the U.S. has continued to see a migration of individuals from Central American countries, as families are forced to flee their countries to seek refuge in America. Children often arrive unaccompanied or, under the Trump Administration, have been separated from their parents at the border. This bill passed full committee markup and is scheduled for a vote on the House and Senate floors this summer. In the current fiscal year, there has been an influx of unaccompanied children and migrant families from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. This has created an increase in the migration of unaccompanied children to the U.S. border. During FY18 alone, 18,440 unaccompanied children have arrived at the border in the area stretching from Laredo to Brownsville. Over half of all unaccompanied children that have arrived to the border have arrived at the lower Rio Grande Valley. In the same year, 45,987 family units have arrived in this area— this represents over 60 percent of all family units that have arrived to the U.S. – Mexico border. In an effort to extend U.S. security outward, and address this issue at the root, the Congressman has made it a priority to help Central American countries combat instability. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar has worked to secure adequate foreign assistance for Central American countries to promote prosperity, improve security, and strengthen governance. Since 2015, the Congressman, in conjunction with his fellow appropriators, has allocated $1.9 billion to the State Department for foreign assistance to Central America but about $800 million of these funds have not been spent - and that does not include the $595 million he helped secure in the FY19 bill. The Congressman’s language in the FY19 bill will ensure that the money directed to Central American countries to combat corruption, violence, and poverty is actually available for use in a timely manner. “Until conditions improve in these countries, the region will continue to be a major transit corridor for illicit drugs and a significant source of migration to the U.S.,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We continue to see the devastating results in our country, as families are forced to flee their countries to seek refuge in America and children arrive unaccompanied.” “I have worked hard to secure funding to address these issues in Central America, but not all of this critical funding is getting to its destination. This is simply unacceptable. We have done our jobs as appropriators by making sure these countries are given the assistance they need. Now the State Department needs to move faster in implementing the funding levels and strategy necessary to meet U.S. objectives, which is exactly what my language in the FY19 appropriations bill is intended to do.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I want to thank State, Foreign Operations, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey for including this important provision in the bill. I would also like to thank my fellow Appropriators for their hard work on this bill.” See video from full committee markup here. See attached bill language here.
06.21.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement thanking First Lady Melania Trump for visiting children detention centers at the border: “I thank First Lady Melania Trump for visiting McAllen today to see first-hand children in detention centers. Yesterday, I sent a letter to President Trump, urging the President and First Lady to visit and keep families together at the U.S.-Mexico border. The situation regarding how families were being separated at the border was unnecessary and avoidable. I thank the First Lady for taking the time to perform this call of duty and witness for herself these unaccompanied children facilities.” See the letter to President Trump here.
06.20.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today, urging President Trump to visit and keep families together at the U.S.-Mexico border: “The current situation regarding how families are being separated at the border is unnecessary and avoidable. Therefore, today I sent a letter to President Trump asking him to join me and my colleagues at the border, to see firsthand the impact the process is having on innocent children. While I have great respect of the rule of law, I know that there is a way that we can process the families seeking legal relief as a family unit and avoid the current circumstances that result in the unnecessary separation of children from their parents. I remain confident that we can achieve a practical solution that minimizes trauma to innocent children while realizing our shared goal that only those truly deserving of legal relief will attain it. Given the severity of the situation, I hope that the President will accept my invitation, so that we are able to find practical solutions to this important issue.” See the letter to President Trump here.
06.15.2018	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Will Hurd (TX-23) announced $1.5 million in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ (USACE) FY18 Work Plan to initiate a study of Mitchell Lake. This funding will be used to initiate the restoration of the lake’s ecosystem and surrounding habitat, eventually providing San Antonio residents with health, recreational, and economic benefits. Congressman Cuellar has worked to secure this funding in the Appropriations Committee over the last few years. Mitchell Lake was one of San Antonio’s first centralized wastewater treatment plants, historically used as a receiving water body for storing raw or partially treated sewage. The treatment plant is owned by San Antonio Water Systems (SAWS), which has sought funding from USACE to study the lake. Since 1992, SAWS has conducted extensive planning for the development of Mitchell Lake and the surrounding area. This funding will be used to initiate a study to evaluate and implement processes to treat water leaving Mitchell Lake, address lingering pollution, and improve water quality. This will transform the area into a flourishing, natural habitat for families in Bexar County and visiting tourists to enjoy. “I would like to thank Congressman Hurd for helping me with this issue,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is an important first step in initiating a study that will eventually restore the ecosystem surrounding Mitchell Lake, which has been neglected for years. I look forward to seeing the progress of this restoration project and the and the benefits it will have for the surrounding communities.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for prioritizing this project. I also recognize San Antonio Water Systems and the San Antonio River Authority for their assistance on this issue.” “We would like to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his continued leadership in securing funding for Mitchell Lake. He has continually stepped up for our community, finding solutions to difficult issues in San Antonio,” said Robert R. Puente, SAWS President/CEO. “This funding will be crucial in restoring the surrounding area and transforming our local aquatic ecosystems.” Mitchell Lake is positioned on a natural migratory bird route and serves as a resting point for tens of thousands of birds each year. Bird watchers come from all over the world to see the unique variety of birds that visit there. This project is designed to improve the surrounding habitat around the lake, creating a more economically friendly environment for a variety of animal species. This restoration project will also increase visitors to the lake, by creating trails with hiking and biking paths for people in Bexar County. To read more about Mitchell Lake, please click here: http://mitchelllake.audubon.org/about
06.14.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released a statement today addressing the separation of migrant families while in U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) custody: “I remain concerned about the separation of migrant families while in CBP custody. I want to ensure that CBP adheres to policies that maintain family unity to the greatest extent possible, absent a legal requirement or a safety concern. “Because of the language I secured in the FY18 Omnibus Appropriations bill, CBP reported that in FY17, the U.S Border Patrol (USBP) separated 1,065 families out of a total of 75,622 immigrant families. CBP takes necessary factors into account when determining grounds for a child’s separation: agents assess the legitimacy of a guardian, additionally taking into account each family member’s overall health. They also review the adult’s criminal history and determine if a child is a victim of trafficking. Of the 703 separated in Fiscal Year 2018 through May, 191 families were separated due to illegitimate guardianship and 72.8% were separated due to concerns regarding the safety of the child (SOURCE). “I do not support any measure that does not take the best interest of the child into consideration— the data above shows that only a small percentage of families are being separated, and when they are, this happens in specific cases where CBP acts in favor of the child’s wellbeing. “I want to make it clear that this is a result of our broken immigration system. Smugglers and human traffickers exploit loopholes in our immigration laws that provide an incentive for migrants to put themselves in extreme danger to illegally cross our borders. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle towards closing loopholes and improving our immigration system.” Congressman Cuellar has helped secure language in the last few Omnibus Appropriations bills directing ICE to avoid separating families whenever possible, to train field officers on mechanisms to reunite families, to improve detention facility conditions, and to ensure the safety and well-being of vulnerable populations.
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped secure millions in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations bill supporting education for military children in schools. This funding will enable schools to meet the unique needs of military children and their parents facing the challenges of military life. Additionally, this bill will fund programs aimed at supporting military families that have children with disabilities such as autism, intellectual disabilities, physical deformities, visual or hearing impairments, or mental health disorders. This bill passed full committee markup today and is scheduled to move for a vote on the House Floor this summer. Securing Millions for Impact Aid In the bill, Congressman Cuellar helped secure $40 million dollars, a $10 million increase from FY18, in operations and maintenance for Impact Aid. Impact Aid is a federal program focused on military-impacted schools. This program provides quality special education and counseling programs in a safe and secure environment for military families dealing with the stress of constant moves, continued deployments, and the wounds of war. (See attached bill language) Military bases in Texas and across the country rely greatly on funding to support children of our military personnel. This includes Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA), which uses money secured in the appropriations bill to fund various educational programs for students in the area. In fiscal year 2017, the DoD reported that an estimated $1 million of Impact Aid funding was provided for thousands of children attending schools in, or surrounding military installations including the Randolph Independent School District (ISD), Lackland ISD, Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City ISD, and Fort Sam Houston ISD. (See attached bill language) Helping Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder In addition to funding for Impact Aid, the congressman successfully included $2.5 million for educational programs helping military families with children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). This allocation will provide teachers with new educational strategies, communications skills, advanced curriculum, and technologies, so that they can help children with ASD meet their individual educational achievements. (See attached bill language) “We need to ensure that students who go to school in, or surrounding military bases receive a quality education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These are children of parents who have risked their lives defending our country and we owe it to them to make sure that they get the support that they need.” “I secured this funding to ensure that each child meets their intellectual potential and enable schools to support children of active duty members.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I thank my fellow Appropriators, Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Visclosky, for helping me secure these funds which will help aid our military personnel and their families.” ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included language and funding in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations bill that helps support troops through medical assistance, cancer research, and therapy to help facilitate recovery after serving in the military. This bill passed full committee markup today and is scheduled to move for a vote on the House and Senate Floors this summer. Helping Wounded Troops Congressman Cuellar helped secure $45 million in funding that directs the Department of Defense (DoD) to invest in advanced wound healing technology. Specifically, this money will fund the Joint Warfighter Medical Research Program (JWMRP), which funds medical research and technology with the goal of providing wounded service members with lifesaving care within the first hour after an injury occurs, reducing the number of battlefield casualties. (See attached bill language) Curing Infectious Diseases The bill directs language for treating service members with both acute and chronic infectious wounds acquired in military combat. Funding will be allocated towards the Military Infectious Diseases Research Program, which manages research for the DoD on naturally occurring infectious diseases with a focus on protecting troops through the development of vaccines, drugs, and diagnostics. This language also encourages the Department to explore solutions for life threatening battlefield complications such as sepsis and other infections through the use of telemedicine and other technologies. (See attached bill language) Fighting Rare Cancers Congressman Cuellar included language that directs the DoD to conduct more extensive research of rare cancers affecting our Armed Forces. Military personnel are uniquely exposed to carcinogens that may increase the risk of certain cancers. As a result, those who serve in the military face unusually high incidence rates of more than two dozen cancers, over half of which are considered rare. This language will directly assist cancer research at a variety of medical centers, including the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, to help deliver enhanced cancer treatment for all service members and their families. (See attached bill language) Therapy Dogs for the Wounded In the bill, the congressman helped secure $10 million, a $5 million increase from FY18, to fund therapeutic service dog training for wounded veterans. These service dogs have proven to be effective aides for military services members wounded in combat and require assistance after returning home. The service animal training program is a world-class program and furthers the congressman’s commitment to caring for the men and women who fight for this country. (See attached bill language) “I want to ensure that the men and women of our Armed Forces have the resources they need to properly recover after they proudly serve our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The language that I helped include will increase funding in this year’s Defense Appropriations bill, supporting critical medical research programs that protect our troops from infectious diseases and deliver enhanced cancer treatment for all service members and their families.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Visclosky, for helping me secure these funds. This money will aid our military in recovery, ensuring that they return to leading healthy lives.” ###
06.11.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $14.6 million in federal reimbursement towards the Mission Reach Project, which he secured in the FY18 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, that was included in the FY18 Work Plan released today by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). The Mission Reach Project is a USACE project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. With additional help from Representatives Hurd, Doggett, Smith, and Castro, money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. The inclusion of the Mission Reach Project in the Army Corps’ Work Plan means that Bexar County will receive $14.6 million dollars in reimbursement this year. This additional $14.6 million will bring the total project reimbursement to $30.8 million dollars, in the last three years, and will support the completion of many important projects throughout San Antonio. Congressman Cuellar is continuing to work to secure additional reimbursement in FY19. He has already secured an additional $15 million in the FY19 House Energy & Water Appropriations bill, that passed the House last week. He is working to have the $15 million in FY19 included in the USACE FY19 Work Plan. In May, this essential funding was used to restore San Pedro Creek Culture Park in Bexar County. This transformative project includes key features that provide flood mitigation within its river banks, enhanced water quality, and sustainability of the surrounding habitat. Additional projects are set to be completed this upcoming year. “I am glad to see the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers provide additional reimbursement for the Mission Reach Project,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This funding has had undeniable benefits for the Bexar community, and I am pleased to see that the requests I made to help my district made it into the Work Plan. I look forward to seeing the completion of the restoration and am confident that these communities will have access to the health, recreational and economic benefits of local waterways. Congressman Cuellar added, “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators for helping approve my $14.6 million request in the Appropriations Committee. I would also like to thank them for their assistance in helping bring these funds back to Bexar County for further community development.” According to the San Antonio River Authority (SARA), “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.”
06.11.2018	LAREDO— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Director of Field Operations for Laredo Field Office David Higgerson, Laredo Port of Entry Port Director Albert Flores, and City of Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, toured the Bridge II Project, a passenger bridge in Laredo, which is currently undergoing renovations. Since 2015, Congressman Cuellar has secured $100 million in federal funding to renovate Bridges I and II. Participating members did a walk-through of Bridge II and were provided an update on the restoration project. The congressman also held a Q&A for media immediately following a tour of the premises. The Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge, or Bridge II, was ranked as one of the busiest crossing for bus passengers in 2016, having processed 41,856 buses and 1,039,605 bus passengers. In the same year, Bridge II processed an additional 4,605,050 automobiles. In consideration of all ports of entry nationwide, 25% of all passengers entering the U.S. by bus from both Canada and Mexico did so at Laredo II. Due to the high number of crossings, the Laredo port has struggled with traffic congestion and is in critical need of additional space and modern updates. Since 1995, bus traffic has increased 98% and bus passengers by 233%. The Bridge II Project will significantly ease pedestrian and vehicle traffic as well as upgrade the facility to increase efficiency and functionality-- the modernization of Bridge II is expected to reduce bus peak wait times by 47%. Construction on the passenger bridge continues to progress rapidly. The renovations include a New Vehicle Processing Facility with new lanes, x-ray and waiting areas, bathrooms and inspection canopies, which will improve the flow and processing of bus and automobile traffic. Additional renovations include replaced utilities, electric, paving, walkways, curbs, gutters, storm drainage, exterior communications and information facilities, fire protection and alarm systems, site improvements, and dedicated Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration area with permanent inspection facilities. Throughout the restoration, the temporary facilities at the port have continued to operate efficiently. Since the start of construction, inbound pedestrian traffic has increased by 0.9%, bus traffic is up 4.5% and bus passengers are up 6.4%. The estimated completion date for the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge renovation is December 31st, 2018. "There is no doubt that the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge has been critical to Laredo," said Congressman Cuellar. "In the past, Bridge II was ill-equipped for the massive bus traffic that the port receives. The current renovations and design plan which include new bus and automobile inspection canopies, and the construction of a new combined bus and passenger vehicle inspection facility, will improve the flow and processing of bus and automobile traffic. It will also provide a very positive first impression for travelers who pass through Laredo and into the United States." Congressman Cuellar continued, "I would like to give a special thanks to CBP Director of Field Operations for Laredo Field Office David Higgerson, Laredo Port of Entry Port Director Albert Flores, City of Laredo Pete Saenz and the General Services Administration (GSA), for their dedication on this project. We are very pleased with the current progress of Bridge II and we look forward to seeing the completion of this project." ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON— Reps. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Joaquín Castro (TX-20), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) secured an amendment to H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019 to improve utility service infrastructure for Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA) and the City of San Antonio. Congressman Cuellar said: “San Antonio is experiencing rapid population growth in Bexar County and it is one of the fastest growing areas in the U.S. The increasing need for wastewater services is an essential part of that growth. However, the existing wastewater pipeline, serving over 500,000 people in Southwest San Antonio and JBSA-Lackland AFB, is in poor condition and must be replaced. The segment that runs through the base has experienced numerous sewer overflows, some of the most in the county. Due to these and other sewer discharges in the system, the City of San Antonio was mandated by the EPA to inspect, rehabilitate and replace parts of the sewer pipeline running through JBSA. The San Antonio Water System (SAWS) and JBSA have participated in lengthy negotiations, seeking a solution to replace the aging wastewater pipe. We have tried for a long time to resolve this amicably— In April, Congressman Joaquin Castro and I held a meeting with Executives from the Air Force, San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, Councilmember Clayton Perry, and SAWS CEO Robert Puente. Additionally, I spoke over the phone with the Air Force Chief of Staff, General Goldfein, in efforts to find out how we could move this vital project forward. Unfortunately, we were not able to come to a definitive agreement. That is why Reps. Castro, Doggett, and I introduced this amendment which brings together JBSA and the City of San Antonio to forge a path forward to replace the pipeline. Specifically, this provision compels the Air Force to conduct a core sampling study at Lackland Air Force Base which is the most effective way to see what potential contaminants are present and will allow this necessary project to get underway. Having the Air Force conduct these soil samples, and allowing this construction project to proceed as planned, the City of San Antonio and customers of the city’s utilities will save over $100 million by avoiding extensive route adjustments. I would like to thank my fellow colleagues from Texas for helping me include our amendment in the final passage of the bill. I would also like to thank Rep. Marc Veasey (D-Fort Worth) for helping us bring this language to the forefront and seek an environmentally responsible solution to this issue. Replacing this pipeline is critical to improving the health, safety, growth, and wellbeing for the City of San Antonio.” Congressman Castro said, “Moving forward with soil samples for this pipeline project is critical for the environment, public health, and San Antonio Water System (SAWS) ratepayers. Failure to do so would result in continued sewer spills, uncertainty for the surrounding community concerning soil contamination, and rate increases for SAWS customers. This amendment allows the Air Force and SAWS to find a path forward for this project while simultaneously helping our community to continue to grow responsibly.” Congressman Doggett said, “Today is a good step forward to ensuring we can safely meet the needs of our growing population. Long ago, I learned the wisdom of the old adage ‘measure twice and cut once.’ This amendment ensures we will soon be armed with all the facts so we don’t take a problem and make it worse. As our Military City, U.S.A. continues to grow, I salute the partnership between SAWS, the City of San Antonio, and JBSA, that addresses the need to sustain our community for future generations of San Antonians.” “Congressman Cuellar continues to step up for our community to find ways to solve difficult issues for San Antonio,” said Robert R. Puente, SAWS President/CEO. “SAWS commitment to Military City USA, and to our customers will be strengthened through Rep. Cuellar’s leadership.” Watch video of Congressman Cuellar speaking on the House Floor here. See bill language here. See report language here.
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg announced that the City of San Antonio will receive a $1.5 million federal investment for fiscal year 2018 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to expand and improve homeland security preparedness. The funds are part of the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) and are specifically geared to address the unique planning, organization, training and equipment of urban areas that are at high risk for acts of terrorism. It improves regional response capabilities by providing crucial training, equipment, and certification for first responders. In Texas, only San Antonio, Houston and Dallas received these UASI funds. The UASI program is funded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security section of the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act and is a half million-dollar increase from FY17. Congressman Cuellar serves on the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee where he continues to advocate and secure funding for San Antonio. “The Urban Areas Security Initiative has a proven track record for providing first responders the support, training and tools needed to respond to terrorist attacks and other disasters,” said Congressman Cuellar. “San Antonio is the largest city in my district, and a signature city of Texas and the United States. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I worked hard to secure funding that will increase response capabilities by providing crucial training, equipment, and certification for our first responders who work tireless every day to protect our way of life.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank Former Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard for their assistance in including these funds in FY18 and for increasing the UASI program by $25 million dollars nationwide. I would like to recognize the San Antonio Delegation— Reps. Lamar Smith, Lloyd Doggett, Joaquin Castro, and Will Hurd for their leadership on this issue. I would also thank San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, City Councilman members including Rey Saldaña for visiting with FEMA during the city’s trip to Washington, D.C. Lastly, I thank our first responders and the Southwest Texas Fusion Center for working with me on this important matter. This combined effort is a great investment for our first responders and a necessary step in increasing efficiency of our regional response capabilities.” San Antonio Mayor Nirenberg said, “This award is an important recognition that San Antonio has unique security needs and our law enforcement community is cutting-edge. We’re particularly happy to have received USAI grants two years in a row, and I especially want to thank Congressman Cuellar for his invaluable leadership. We also are grateful to Congressman Hurd and the rest of our delegation.” Eligibility for additional programs in San Antonio include: Transit Security Grant Program In FY18, the San Antonio Area VIA Metropolitan Transit is eligible to apply for the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) which provides $88 million nationwide to the Nation’s High-Threat Urban Areas for enhancement of security measures at critical transit infrastructure including bus, ferry, and rail systems. The intent of the program is to competitively award grant funding to assist transit systems in obtaining the resources required to support transit safety preparedness. Nonprofit Security Grant Program In addition to the Urban Area Security Initiative, San Antonio is eligible to apply for the FY2018 Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP- Urban Area). This program provides $50 million dollars nationwide in funding to support physical security enhancements and activities to nonprofit organizations that are at high risk of terrorist attack and located within one of the specific UASI-designated Urban Areas. IBSGP Eligible Urban Areas San Antonio is also eligible to apply for the FY18 Intercity Bus Security Grant Program (IBSGP), which provides $2 million nationwide to owners and operators of intercity bus systems to protect traveling public from acts of terrorism on transit infrastructure by providing necessary resources to develop and implement security measures. State Homeland Security Program The State of Texas will receive $20 million dollars under the State Homeland Security Program (SSP). Funds are used to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. These funds are sub awarded to local law enforcement agencies to purchase equipment, conduct trainings and exercises to ensure our first responders have the most up to date training and equipment. For more information on the UASI program, visit https://www.fema.gov/homeland-security-grant-program.
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced over $130 million in federal funds to help U.S. citrus growers, including those in the Rio Grande Valley. The funds, secured in the U.S. House of Representatives’ fiscal year 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill, will offer support to citrus farmers in numerous ways to protect the citrus industry. To help Rio Grande Valley farmers battle the scourge of Citrus Greening Disease, Congressman Cuellar advocated for and secured $61 million for the Citrus Health Response Program and $3 million for the Huanglongbird Multi-Agency Coordination (HLB-MAC) Group under the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). The goal of the HLB-MAC is to combat citrus greening diseases through research efforts and coordination between state and federal regulator agencies. The Congressman additionally helped secure $66.6 million for fruit fly exclusion and detection. The U.S. citrus industry has an economic footprint of $11 billion; however, due to Citrus Greening Disease and fruit flies, the industry has faced steep damages and economic losses. All of the citrus growing counties in Texas are under quarantine, and the State of Florida has seen a reduction in citrus production of over 60% since 2007. In addition, the Asian Citrus Psyllid, the vector of the Greening Disease, has been found in California. By allocating funds towards various efforts to help preserve citrus-trees in the Rio Grande Valley and the surrounding area, citrus-farmers in Congressman Cuellar’s district are able to preserve the value of their crops and maintain industry prices for the regular consumer. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration Subcommittee Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop for helping me secure these funds. I also thank my fellow South Texas Congressmen Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez for their leadership on this issue,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Additionally, I recognize Texas Citrus Mutual for their continued efforts to help fight citrus-greening within the state. “Our citrus growers contribute greatly to the economy of the Rio Grande Valley, and they deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality. We have a responsibility to support Texas Citrus Industries that help fuel economic growth in our communities. The $130 million that I have secured for citrus growers through fruit fly eradication efforts will be a great help to our farmers who rely on this funding.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “We are making good progress toward correcting the damage done by the incurable citrus greening disease, which has caused drastic reductions in citrus production in recent years. I am committed to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress to tackle this serious issue.” Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a nonprofit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Grande Valley and has personally seen the effects of citrus diseases like citrus greening since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “Congressman Cuellar has consistently supported agriculture and the United States and Texas Citrus industries,” Mr. Murden said. “Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? The frightening part is, that is what could happen if we do not get ahead of the issue. We cannot thank Congressman Cuellar enough for his support in combatting this disease crippling citrus growers and his bipartisan approach to problem-solving.” More information regarding Fruit Flies The Fruit Fly Exclusion and Detection Programs protect the health and value of American agricultural resources threatened by the establishment of exotic fruit fly populations. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or APHIS is concerned with the risk of the northward spread of exotic fruit fly species into the United States via Mexico. Mexico is an especially high-risk pathway due to the shared border and the large numbers of people migrating from fruit fly infested areas of Central America and Mexico to the United States. Fruit flies spend their larval stages feeding and growing in over 400 host plants. Introduction of these pest species into the United States causes economic losses from destruction and spoiling of host commodities by larvae, costs associated with implementing control measures, and loss of market share due to restrictions on shipment of host commodities. The extensive damage and wide host range of fruit flies become obstacles to agricultural diversification and trade when pest fruit fly species become established. Recognizing the urgency of tackling citrus greening disease Congressman Cuellar also included language in the Agriculture appropriations bill to encourage APHIS to allocate sufficient resources to address the issue of citrus greening and directs HLB-MAC to give out resources in the best way possible to maximize the effect it can have on the disease. In addition, he included language encouraging the continuation of good work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective control mechanisms in the fight against citrus greening. The hope behind these working groups is to bring together relevant stakeholders, develop innovative solutions and help USDA choose good projects that will bring us closer to short-term and long-term solutions to the citrus greening problem, in addition to an eventual cure. Within the bill, Congressman Cuellar included language commending the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) on its citrus greening research efforts and to continue its cooperation with HLB-MAC. The language encourages the agency to continue working to curb the spread of the disease and enhance immunity in citrus trees as well as to work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective ways of controlling the disease. ARS is a member of HLB-MAC. He also included language encouraging the use of CHRP funds to partner with state departments of agriculture and industry groups to address the disease in addition to encouraging APHIS to use the funds available in the Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Preventions Programs account and in the funds for CHRP to keep the citrus industry viable. Finally, Congressman Cuellar included language that prioritizes citrus greening research projects through the Emergency Citrus Disease Research and Extension Program, which was created under the 2014 farm bill, and encourages the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to work with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Advisory Board’s citrus disease subcommittee and to collaborate with HLB-MAC. Key Agencies APHIS (Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) – arm of the United States Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting animal health, animal welfare, and plant health CHRP (Citrus Health Response Program) – administered under APHIS, helps protect the U.S. citrus-growing industry and works on coordination between state and federal entities HLB-MAC (Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group) – administered under APHIS; goal is to confront Huanglongbing, or citrus greening disease, through research efforts and coordination between state and federal regulatory agencies ARS (Agricultural Research Service) – member of HLB-MAC that has worked on citrus greening research efforts Read additional language here.
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, included $15 million in funding in the U.S. House of Representatives’ Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project. This funding will support the completion of many important projects throughout San Antonio. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. USACE has been slowly paying back the funds thanks to the help of Representatives Cuellar, Hurd, Doggett, Smith, Castro, and other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation. To date, the project has received $16.2 million in reimbursement and is authorized to receive $30 million more - $15 million from the FY18 Appropriations Bill, and this additional $15 million from FY19. In May, this essential funding was used to restore San Pedro Creek Culture Park in Bexar County. This transformative project includes key features that provide flood mitigation within its river banks, enhance water quality, and ensure sustainability of the surrounding habitat. Additional projects are set to be completed this upcoming year. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur, and the Bexar County Delegation – Reps. Will Hurd, Lloyd Doggett, Lamar Smith, and Joaquin Castro - for their assistance including this language and for their help in repaying these Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am glad to see additional funding for the Mission Reach project,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Major properties in my district that depend largely on these types of creeks will be provided with the funds they need in order to protect our ecosystems and the environment. I look forward to seeing the completion of the restoration and am confident that these economically and environmentally distressed communities will have access to the health, recreational and economic benefits of local waterways.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.” Read additional bill language here.
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that he included $96.5 million and language in the U.S. House of Representatives Fiscal Year 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill for the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Cattle Health Program, including $5 million specifically for research and scientific tools to eradicate cattle fever tick. The U.S. cattle industry is valued at roughly $81 billion. Cattle fever ticks carry microscopic parasites that cause anemia, fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, and often death for up to 90 percent of infected cattle. Along the Rio Grande, there is a Permanent Cattle Fever Tick Quarantine Zone, an area that spans eight Texas counties on the border and over a half million acres stretching from the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville to Amistad Dam north of Del Rio, intended to prevent the spread of the often deadly tick-borne disease. Infestations have been reported elsewhere in Central and South Texas as well. In FY18, Congressman Cuellar helped secure millions of dollars for cattle health, including millions to fight fever ticks in areas like Starr, Hidalgo, Zapata, and Webb Counties in Texas. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop for helping me secure these funds. I would also like to thank my fellow South Texas Congressmen Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez for their leadership on this issue,” Congressman Cuellar added. “I also want to thank the Texas Farm Bureau, Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, and the South Texans’ Property Rights Association, for their consistent efforts to help highlight and battle this issue at the local, State, and Federal level for our Texas ranchers and cattle producers.” “Our cattle producers contribute greatly to the economy and way of life in South Texas. They deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality. Fighting these ticks has been an ongoing, uphill battle since 2008, when I included language in the Farm Bill for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program that provided research grants to study cattle fever ticks and their eradication. The funds for the USDA-APHIS Cattle Health program this year are an important step in helping control the tick population and stop the spread of their disease.” In each of the four quarantine counties in Congressman Cuellar’s district (Starr, Zapata, Webb, and Hidalgo), the Congressman’s office and the Farm Service Agency will be hosting information sessions on the availability of Emergency Livestock Assistance Program funding for ranchers and farmers who spend money on moving their cattle to dipping sites for cattle fever tick treatment. Only those ranchers that reside in each of the four quarantined counties in the district are eligible for funding. Please see the following flyers for more details. Read report language here.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON—Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced he included language in the U.S. House of Representative’s fiscal year 2019 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which passed committee yesterday, to support homeless veterans, including those on the border, to increase access to cemeteries for veterans in rural areas, and increase the availability of tele-medicine for veterans in rural communities. Congressman Cuellar’s language has several parts. Housing and Support for Veterans in Rural Communities First, it encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with local service agencies, particularly in small and rural communities, to ensure that voucher recipients of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program (HUD-VASH) are getting the most comprehensive services available. HUD-VASH is a cross-agency program charged with providing housing to homeless veterans. The provision also calls on the VA to work with HUD to develop strategies and recommendations for addressing U.S. veteran homelessness near the U.S.-Mexico border and to take into account these undercounted veterans when awarding HUD-VASH vouchers. Congressman Cuellar is working to ensure that the resources available to homeless veterans, including through HUD-VASH vouchers, are sufficient. The number of vouchers that the VA gives out in a specific area is determined by a number of factors, including HUD’s annual Point-In-Time Survey, which is meant to be a snapshot of the local homeless veteran population. The second provision recognizes that homeless veterans’ challenges don’t stop at finding permanent housing. They also need basic necessities, such as furniture, basic household items and other basic assistance. The Congressman’s provision requests a report to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on the feasibility of a program for organizations to provide these supplies to newly housed veterans. Burial Options for Veterans in Rural Communities The Congressman is also working to improve access to burial options for veterans in rural areas. There are geographic pockets in the country that are not being served, as VA has failed to meet its goals of having cemetery access for all veterans to a burial option within 75 miles of a veteran’s home. The provision included in the bill requests that the VA National Cemetery Administration submit a report on expanding access to burial options for veterans in rural areas. Telehealth Access for Veterans in Rural Communities Congressman Cuellar secured language in the bill that would help expand tele-medicine to rural areas. Telehealth is the use of electronic and telecommunications technologies to support remote health care delivery for those veterans who cannot easily access a doctor’s office. While in many cases veterans can access a medical office, this often does not extend to the specialty care they need or those who are in very rural areas or are infirm. The funds and language, which encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to explore innovative ways to use telemedicine to care for rural and infirmed veterans, have to be passed by the full House and Senate before being sent to the President’s desk. Congressman Cuellar also secured: Language to ensure that military Joint Military Bases have adequate training facilities and that the military prioritize construction of training facilities that will diminish impacts on surrounding communities and increase readiness. $196 million for suicide prevention outreach Language encouraging the VA to implement a program that would designate a VA liaison to work with local law enforcement to address the unique issues facing veterans returning from combat Language urging VA hospitals to collaborate with Hispanic-Serving Institutions Congressman Cuellar said: “I have long been a supporter of our armed forces and the men and women who sacrifice so much for our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That is why it is so essential that we honor their service by doing whatever we can to help our veterans succeed and thrive after returning to civilian life. The need for more comprehensive services for our community’s homeless veterans underscores the need for greater support for them in the form of housing. Once these veterans are housed, we must then make sure that we provide them with the furniture and supplies they need to live a productive life. We owe it to our veterans to make sure they are taken care of when they return home.” Read additional language here.
04.26.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced the delivery of over $120 million in federal funds to help U.S. citrus growers, including those in the Rio Grande Valley. The funds, which have been included in the 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill, will offer support to citrus farmers in numerous ways. To help Rio Grande Valley farmers battle the scourge of Citrus Greening Disease, Congressman Cuellar advocated for and secured over $65 million for citrus health and the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group operated through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). He was also able to help secure over $59 million for fruit fly exclusion and detection. The U.S. citrus industry has an economic footprint of $11 billion; however, due to Citrus Greening Disease and fruit flies, the industry has faced steep damages and economic losses. All of the citrus growing counties in Texas are under quarantine, and the State of Florida has seen a reduction in citrus production of over 60% since 2007. In addition, the Asian Citrus Psyllid, the vector of the Greening Disease, has been found in California. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration Subcommittee Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop, and colleagues from Texas for their leadership and help in acquiring this essential funding,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our citrus growers contribute greatly to the economy of the Rio Grande Valley, and they deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The $59.5 million worth of funding I have helped secure for citrus growers through fruit fly eradication efforts will be a great help to our farmers. We are making good progress toward correcting the damage done by threats like the incurable citrus greening disease, which has caused drastic reductions in citrus production in recent years.” Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a nonprofit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Grande Valley and has personally seen the effects of citrus diseases like citrus greening since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “Congressman Cuellar has long supported agriculture and the United States and Texas Citrus Industries,” Mr. Murden said. “Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? Because, that is what could happen if we do not stay on top of this issue. We cannot thank Congressman Cuellar enough for his support and his bipartisan approach to problem-solving.” More information regarding Fruit Flies The Fruit Fly Exclusion and Detection Programs protect the health and value of American agricultural resources threatened by the establishment of exotic fruit fly populations. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or APHIS is concerned with the risk of the northward spread of exotic fruit fly species into the United States via Mexico. Mexico is an especially high-risk pathway due to the shared border and the large numbers of people migrating from fruit fly infested areas of Central America and Mexico to the United States. Fruit flies spend their larval stages feeding and growing in over 400 host plants. Introduction of these pest species into the United States causes economic losses from destruction and spoiling of host commodities by larvae, costs associated with implementing control measures, and loss of market share due to restrictions on shipment of host commodities. The extensive damage and wide host range of fruit flies become obstacles to agricultural diversification and trade when pest fruit fly species become established. Recognizing the urgency of tackling citrus greening disease Congressman Cuellar also included language in the Agriculture appropriations bill to encourage APHIS to allocate sufficient resources to address the issue of citrus greening and directs HLB-MAC to give out resources in the best way possible to maximize the effect it can have on the disease. In addition, he included language encouraging the continuation of good work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective control mechanisms in the fight against citrus greening. The hope behind these working groups is to bring together relevant stakeholders, develop innovative solutions and help USDA choose good projects that will bring us closer to short-term and long-term solutions to the citrus greening problem, in addition to an eventual cure. Within the bill, Congressman Cuellar included language commending the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) on its citrus greening research efforts and to continue its cooperation with HLB-MAC. The language encourages the agency to continue working to curb the spread of the disease and enhance immunity in citrus trees as well as to work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective ways of controlling the disease. ARS is a member of HLB-MAC. He also included language encouraging the use of CHRP funds to partner with state departments of agriculture and industry groups to address the disease in addition to encouraging APHIS to use the funds available in the Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Preventions Programs account and in the funds for CHRP to keep the citrus industry viable. Finally, Congressman Cuellar included language that prioritizes citrus greening research projects through the Emergency Citrus Disease Research and Extension Program, which was created under the 2014 farm bill, and encourages the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to work with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Advisory Board’s citrus disease subcommittee and to collaborate with HLB-MAC. Key Agencies APHIS (Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) – arm of the United States Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting animal health, animal welfare, and plant health CHRP (Citrus Health Response Program) – administered under APHIS, helps protect the U.S. citrus-growing industry and works on coordination between state and federal entities HLB-MAC (Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group) – administered under APHIS; goal is to confront Huanglongbing, or citrus greening disease, through research efforts and coordination between state and federal regulatory agencies ARS (Agricultural Research Service) – member of HLB-MAC that has worked on citrus greening research efforts
04.25.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees on Homeland Security and Defense, announced funding available through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to address the opioid crisis in communities through telemedicine and innovative community facilities. USDA Rural Development has available $25 million in grant funding for innovative projects that address the opioid crisis in rural America. Specifically, the department has reserved 5 million in grants through their Community Facilities grant program, and $20 million through their Distance Learning and Telemedicine program to help rural communities build local responses to the opioid epidemic. Funding for these programs comes from the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus spending bill. Rural communities, non-profit organizations and federally recognized tribes can apply for a Community Facilities grant through the traditional application process by contacting their local USDA RD office. To find your local USDA Rural Development office visit https://www.rd.usda.gov/contact-us/state-offices/tx. Communities can apply for up to $150,000 in grants for innovative projects such as mobile treatment clinics. The Community Facilities grants program may fund up to 75 percent of an eligible project. Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant (DLT) Program applicants will receive priority for telemedicine projects with the primary purpose of providing opioid prevention, treatment or recovery services. Eligible proposals can receive 10 priority points on their applications. DLT program funds can be used to purchase telemedicine equipment, computers, software and construct broadband facilities. “The opioid epidemic has increasingly become a topic of concern amongst many small communities and towns across the country,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “That is why programs like these are an important investment in combatting this current national emergency, which affects each and every town across the nation. “USDA has been an important partner when it comes to addressing this issue in rural communities, and I thank them for working diligently to create these necessary programs.” Congressman Cuellar added, “I will continue to secure funding and work towards building effective, local responses to this significant issue.” The application deadline for both programs is June 4th, 2018. For more information about USDA’s partnership with rural communities in addressing the opioid epidemic, visit usda.gov/opioids.
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON - El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes, anunció la entrega de más de $120 millones en fondos federales para ayudar a los cultivadores de cítricos de EE.UU., incluyendo cultivadores del Valle del Río Grande. Los fondos que han sido incluidos en el proyecto de ley Omnibus Appropriations 2018 ofrecerán apoyo a los productores de cítricos de numerosas maneras. Para ayudar a los agricultores del Valle del Río Grande a combatir el flagelo de la enfermedad de enverdecimiento de los cítricos (Citrus Greening Disease), el Congresista Cuellar abogó y aseguró más de $65 millones para la salud de los cítricos y para el Grupo de Coordinación Multi-Agencia Huanglongbing, operado por el Servicio de Inspección de Sanidad Animal y Vegetal del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos. El Congresista también ayudó a asegurar más de $ 59 millones para la exclusión y detección de la mosca de la fruta. La industria de cítricos de EE. UU. tiene un impacto económico de $11 mil millones; sin embargo, debido a la enfermedad de enverdecimiento de los cítricos y a las moscas de la fruta, la industria ha enfrentado fuertes daños y pérdidas económicas. Todos los condados que cultivan cítricos en Texas están en cuarentena, y el estado de Florida ha visto una reducción en la producción de cítricos de más del 60% desde 2007. Además el psílido asiático de los cítricos, el vector de la enfermedad de enverdecimiento de los cítricos, fue encontrado en California. "Me gustaría agradecer a mis compañeros del Comite de Asignaciones, Apropiadores de Agricultura, Desarrollo Rural, Subcomité de Administración de Drogas y Alimentos, Presidente Aderholt y al Miembro de Rango Mayor Bishop, y a mis colegas de Texas por su liderazgo y su ayuda en la adquisición de estos fondos esenciales", dijo el congresista Cuellar. "Nuestros productores de cítricos contribuyen en gran medida a la economía del Valle del Río Grande, y merecen nuestra asistencia frente a las amenazas a su vitalidad", dijo el congresista Cuellar. "El financiamiento de $59.5 millones que he ayudado a asegurar para los productores de cítricos a través de los esfuerzos de erradicación de la mosca de la fruta será de gran ayuda para nuestros agricultores. Estamos trabajando para corregir el daño causado por amenazas como la incurable enfermedad del enverdecimiento de los cítricos, que ha causado reducciones drásticas en la producción de cítricos en los últimos años". Dale Murden del Texas Citrus Mutual, una asociación comercial sin fines de lucro que representa a los productores de cítricos de Texas, posee un huerto de cítricos en el Valle del Río Grande y ha visto personalmente los efectos de las enfermedades cítricas como el enverdecimiento de los cítricos desde su identificación inicial en el Valle en el 2008. "El Congresista Cuéllar ha apoyado durante mucho tiempo a la agricultura y a las industrias Citricas de los Estados Unidos y de Texas," dijo Murden. "¿Puede imaginarse el Valle del Río Grande sin árboles de cítricos? Porque eso es lo que podría suceder si no prestamos atencion a este problema. No podemos agradecer lo suficiente al congresista Cuéllar por su apoyo y su enfoque bipartidista en la resolución de problemas ". Más información sobre las moscas de la fruta Los Programas de Exclusión y Detección de Moscas de Frutas protegen la salud y el valor de los recursos agrícolas de los Estados Unidos amenazados por el establecimiento de poblaciones de moscas de la fruta exótica. El Servicio de Inspección de Sanidad Animal y Vegetal del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos (USDA), o APHIS, está preocupado por el riesgo de la diseminación de especies de moscas de la fruta exótica hacia el norte de los Estados Unidos a través de México. México es un camino especialmente de alto riesgo debido a la frontera compartida y al gran número de personas que migran desde las áreas infestadas de mosca de la fruta de América Central y México a los Estados Unidos. Las moscas de la fruta pasan sus etapas de larva alimentándose y creciendo en más de 400 plantas huésped. La introducción de estas especies de plagas en los Estados Unidos causa pérdidas económicas por la destrucción y deterioro de los productos hospedantes por parte de las larvas, los costos asociados con la implementación de medidas de control y la pérdida de cuota de mercado debido a las restricciones en el envío de productos básicos. El extenso daño y la amplia variedad de moscas de la fruta se convierten en obstáculos para la diversificación y el comercio agrícola cuando las plagas de la mosca de la fruta se establecen. Reconociendo la urgencia de hacer frente a la enfermedad del enverdecimiento de los cítricos El Congresista Cuellar también incluyó información en el proyecto de ley de asignaciones agrícolas para alentar al APHIS a asignar recursos suficientes para abordar el tema del enverdecimiento de los cítricos y ordena a HLB-MAC a que distribuya los recursos de la mejor manera posible para maximizar el efecto que puede tener sobre la enfermedad. Además, incluyó información que fomenta la continuación del buen trabajo con la industria, las universidades, los productores y otros socios para desarrollar mecanismos de control efectivos en la lucha contra el enverdecimiento de los cítricos. La esperanza detrás de estos grupos de trabajo es reunir a todos aquellos que desean desarrollar soluciones innovadoras y ayudar al USDA a elegir buenos proyectos que nos acerquen a soluciones a corto y largo plazo para el problema del enverdecimiento de los cítricos, además de una cura final. Dentro del proyecto de ley, el congresista Cuéllar incluyó un texto agradeciendo al Servicio de Investigación Agrícola (ARS) en sus esfuerzos de investigación del enverdecimiento de los cítricos y para continuar su cooperación con HLB-MAC. El lenguaje alienta a la agencia a seguir trabajando para frenar la propagación de la enfermedad y mejorar la inmunidad en los árboles de cítricos, así como para trabajar con la industria, universidades, productores y otros socios para desarrollar formas efectivas de controlar la enfermedad. ARS es miembro de HLB-MAC. También incluyó información que alienta el uso de fondos CHRP para asociarse con departamentos estatales de agricultura y grupos industriales para abordar la enfermedad además de alentar al APHIS a utilizar los fondos disponibles en la cuenta de Programas de Control de Plagas y Enfermedades y Prevención de Desastres para que CHRP mantenga viable la industria de los cítricos. Finalmente, el Congresista Cuellar incluyó información que da prioridad a los proyectos de investigación ecológica a través del Programa de Investigación y Extensión de Enfermedades Cítricas Emergentes, creado bajo la ley agrícola de 2014, y alienta al Instituto Nacional de Alimentos y Agricultura a trabajar con la Agencia Nacional de Investigación Agrícola, Extensión, Subcomité de Enfermedades Cítricas de la Junta Asesora de Educación y para colaborar con HLB-MAC. Agencias clave APHIS (Servicio de Inspección de Sanidad Animal y Vegetal): brazo del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos responsable de proteger la salud y el bienestar animal y la salud de las plantas CHRP (Programa de Respuesta de Citrus Health): administrado por APHIS, ayuda a proteger la industria de cultivo de cítricos de EE. UU. y trabaja en la coordinación entre entidades estatales y federales HLB-MAC (Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group): administrado por APHIS; el objetivo es enfrentar el Huanglongbing o la enfermedad del enverdecimiento de los cítricos a través de esfuerzos de investigación y coordinación entre las agencias reguladoras estatales y federales ARS (Servicio de Investigación Agrícola): grupo del HLB-MAC que ha trabajado en los esfuerzos de investigación sobre el enverdecimiento de los cítricos
04.14.2018	Rep. Cuellar Issues Statement on U.S. Airstrikes in Syria SAN ANTONIO— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Homeland Security and Defense, released the following statement after President Trump launched airstrikes against the Syrian regime, following a brutal chemical weapons attack on civilians in Douma: “The recent chemical attacks by the Assad regime make it clear that now, more than ever, we need to continue working in concert with our allies against inhumane gas attacks on innocent, civilian populations. “As the leading global superpower, it is important from both a strategic and moral standpoint that the United States leads on this important issue, and that we continue mobilizing in order to prevent these brutal chemical weapon attacks like the ones in Douma from happening in the future. “Although it is disappointing that we do not have unanimity on the United Nations Security Council on this issue, we cannot let it deter our commitment to this matter, or allow it diminish our moral, Democratic obligation.”
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON— On Wednesday, April 4, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted an informative video conference regarding the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 from Washington, D.C. The purpose of this conference was to discuss the spending bill which includes essential funding for transportation, infrastructure, health care, law enforcement, and education which will greatly benefit the 28th district of Texas. This video conference was made available for constituents and media throughout the district including Starr, Webb and Bexar counties. “As your representative in Congress, and a member of the Appropriations Committee, one of my top priorities is to help ensure that South Texas receives our fair share of federal funding,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Upon the passage of the FY18 Omnibus Appropriations Act, it is important that my constituents understand how this spending bill will directly influence the district and our communities. For this reason, my office provided a comprehensive and detailed breakdown of where our federal funding is going and how it will benefit the 28th district.” Congressman Cuellar added, “My offices in the district and Washington, D.C. are top resources for constituents. For this reason, my constituent service team will be following up on specific questions regarding funding for various projects and grants discussed during the video conference. I encourage individuals to contact my legislative and outreach staff, so that we are able to continue to address issues of concerns and discuss ways to put federal dollars to work in our communities.” Read highlights from the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 here. On Wednesday, April 4, Congressman Cuellar’s legislative staff hosted a video conference that was broadcast live to four locations in the district. The video conference was organized to discuss the spending bill which includes essential funding for transportation, infrastructure, health care, law enforcement and education, which will greatly benefit the 28th district of Texas. This event also served as a chance for constituents across our communities to discuss and ask questions about the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018. Pictured: Video Conference locations included Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton (top-left), Texas A&M International University in Laredo (top-right), The Center for Education and Economic Development in Mission (bottom-left), and Northeast Lakeview College in Universal City (bottom-right).
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON—Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees on Homeland Security and Defense, issued a statement praising a key provision he supported in the 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which allows for non-confidential reports of the Congressional Research Service to be publically available online for citizens. All non-confidential reports of the Congressional Research Service must be made publicly available online through a Government Publishing Office website within 90 to 270 days under a provision of the appropriations act that was passed by Congress and signed by the President last month. The Congressional Research Service, a component of the Library of Congress, conducts research and analysis for Congress on a broad range of national policy issues. It is a non-partisan tool, which provides policy and legal analysis to committees and Members of both the House and Senate. CRS experts assist at every stage of the legislative process — from the early considerations that precede bill drafting, through committee hearings and floor debate, to the oversight of enacted laws and various agency activities. It also approaches complex topics from a variety of perspectives and examines all sides of an issue. Staff members analyze current policies and present the impact of proposed policy alternatives. “Transparency is a fundamental part of our democracy, and we have a responsibility to make sure that we uphold this value,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am pleased to see that this key provision I supported in the Omnibus Bill will grant every taxpaying American with easy access to publically funded research online. “For over a decade, CRS has proven to be a valuable, non-partisan resource that has helped lawmakers create and understand polices. Now, citizens will be able to use the same online database and read public records that will help them gain a better understanding of a variety of legislative topics and issues.” For more information, please visit http://www.crs.gov/.
04.05.2018	Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) sent a bipartisan letter on March 23, 2018 to universities in Texas hosting Confucius Institutes, including Texas A&M University, University of Texas at Dallas, University of Texas at San Antonio, and Texas Southern University. Reps. McCaul and Cuellar released the following joint statement: “We strongly urge these universities to consider terminating their partnerships with Confucius Institutes and other Chinese government supported organizations. These organizations are a threat to our nation’s security by serving as a platform for China’s intelligence collection and political agenda. We have a responsibility to uphold our American values of free expression, and to do whatever is necessary to counter any behavior that poses a threat to our democracy.” Click here or see below the open letter to universities and educational institutions considering hosting Confucius Institutes or other Chinese government supported organizations on their campuses. Dear Presidents of Texas Colleges, Universities, and Other Educational Institutions, We write to express our deep concerns of Chinese government influence on your campus. Confucius Institutes and other Chinese government supported academic organizations, such as the China-United States Exchange Foundation, are intended to spread China's political agenda, suppress academic debate, and steal vital academic research. Confucius Institutes were launched by the Chinese Communist Party's United Front Work Department. The United Front Work Department's goals are to "win support for China's political agenda, accumulate influence overseas and gather key information." Confucius Institutes are overseen by the Hanban (the Office of Chinese Language Council International) inside China's Ministry of Education. It was led by China's Vice Premier Liu Yandong, who also led the United Front Work Department when the program began. The Hanban's governing council is composed of 12 Chinese government ministries, including the State Council (chief administrative authority of the Chinese government), the State Press and Publications Administration (the state-run media and propaganda department), and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Confucius Institutes require an adherence to Chinese law, and are used as a platform for China to combat its Five Poisons, among other suppressive actions. · In 2010, China's minister of propaganda declared, "We should actively carry out international propaganda battles against issuers such as Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan, human rights and Falun Gong. We should do well in establishing and operating overseas cultural centers and Confucius Institutes." · In a 2011 speech, a standing member of the Chinese Communist Party's Politburo avowed, "the Confucius Institute... has made an important contribution toward improving our soft power. The 'Confucius' brand has a natural attractiveness. Using the excuse of teaching Chinese language, everything looks reasonable and logical.” Fortunately, the U.S. Intelligence Community and your peer academic institutions are recognizing this threat. The FBI Director recently informed Congress that the FBI is investigating some Confucius Institutes on university campuses. There are currently more than 100 Confucius Institutes in the United States, approximately 40% in the world. Additionally, leading universities in the United States, including the University of Texas at Austin, and across the globe have severed their relationships with Chinese government supported organizations recognizing that their academic integrity could be compromised and research could be stolen. This kind of malicious behavior is consistent with their history of harming American innovation and theft of our intellectual property. · In February, FBI Director Christopher Wray testified to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI has "concerns about the Confucius Institutes," and is investigating them as a result. Director Wray warned about the use of non-traditional intelligence collection from China; he stated they are "exploiting the very open research and development environment we have, which we all revere, but they're taking advantage of it." · Also in February, the University of West Florida announced its plans to ends its agreement with its Confucius Institute, following the receipt of a concerned letter from Senator Marco Rubio. · In January, the University of Texas at Austin rejected a proposal from the China United States Exchange Foundation (CUSEF). The CUSEF is connected to the United Front Work Department. · In 2014, both the University of Chicago and Pennsylvania State University ended their relationship with their Confucius Institutes. · Other leading international universities have also ended their relationships with the institutes, including Japan's Osaka Sangyo University, Canada's McMaster University and Universite de Sherbrooke, France's University of Lyon, Germany's Stuttgart Media University and University of Hohenheim, and Sweden's Stockholm University. In light of China's subversive behavior and malicious intent to suppress our American values of free expression, speech and debate, we respectfully and strongly urge you to consider terminating your Confucius Institute and other agreements with Chinese government supported organizations. Should you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact our offices. Thank you for your time and consideration of this extremely important matter.
04.04.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Homeland Security and Defense, released the following statement regarding Trump’s announcement to militarize the U.S – Mexico border: “Militarizing the border is a dramatic measure and will affect the lives of millions of people who live, work, and worship, in local communities on an everyday basis. Securing the southern border starts with ensuring that we implement policies that will have long-term, significant outcomes on the area in a safe and reliable way. It seems that the administration’s “solutions” to increased border security have been reactive and unsuitable to the issues at hand. What the President fails to understand is that deploying troops to secure a border and constructing a 14th century concrete wall, are outdated and inadequate answers to protecting our nation’s borders.” “I have discussed proper solutions with President Trump at the White House and I’ve encouraged him to focus on providing resources to equip our agents by updating technologies, employing additional border security personnel and increasing immigration judges. Instead of deploying armed troops to neighborhoods along the border, I encourage the administration to look at the ideas that I have personally presented, alongside other members of Congress, to find a solution and achieve a common goal, instead of utilizing our troops who should be called upon to protect us from grave security risks.”
04.04.2018	El dia de hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), miembro del Comité de Asignaciones y del Subcomité de Seguridad Nacional de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos, emitió la siguiente declaración: “Militarizar la frontera es un medida drástica y afectará las vidas de millones de personas que viven y trabajan en las comunidades locales día a día:. Para mejorar la seguridad en la frontera, tenemos que empezar por asegurar que se implementen leyes que tengan resultados significativos a largo plazo, de una manera segura y confiable. Parece ser que las “soluciones” que la administración ha encontrado para incrementar la seguridad fronteriza han sido reactivas e inadecuadas para esta situación. Lo que el Presidente no entiende es que el despliegue de tropas para resguardar la frontera y el construir un muro de concreto del siglo XIV, como en tiempos de antaño, son respuestas anticuadas e inadecuadas para proteger las fronteras de nuestra nación. He hablado con el Presidente Trump en la Casa Blanca y lo he exhortado a concentrarse en brindar recursos para equipar a nuestros agentes con nuevas tecnologías, contratar a personal adicional de seguridad fronteriza, y aumentar el número de jueces de inmigración. En lugar de desplegar tropas armadas a los vecindarios de la frontera, incito a la administración a que tome en cuenta las ideas que he presentado junto con otros miembros de la Cámara de Representantes, para hallar una solución y llegar a una meta, en lugar de utilizar a nuestras tropas quienes deberían ser convocadas para protegerse en casos de grandes riesgos de seguridad.”
04.04.2018	Today, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) approved the use of $10,300,000 dollars in coordinated border infrastructure funds for the FAST Lane Project which will allow for an expedited lane for pre-cleared trucks to traverse through Laredo. This critical step forward in the development of the project which will alleviate congestion and increase mobility of this vitally important economic Port of Entry at the Texas-Mexican border. “I am pleased to see that the Federal Highway Administration has approved the use of CBI funding for the World Trade Bridge FAST Lane project,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This funding will streamline international commerce through Laredo, eliminate costly bottlenecks and greatly benefit the local and national economy. “As the largest inland port in the United States, the World Trade Bridge plays a large role as an economic engine for Texas. This project will relocate FAST lanes to a new site on the north side of the federal compound, allowing FAST trucks a more direct route from the bridge, into the new FAST inspection facility, and on to their final destinations. “As this project moves forward towards the design phase, I would like to thank the City of Laredo, GSA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, TX DOT, and the Federal Highway Administration for their partnership in obtaining crucial funding for the FAST Lane project at the World Trade Bridge. I am confident that this project will be an economic powerhouse that will better our cities and the businesses within them.”
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON— Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) successfully included language in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act to hire at least 100 new immigration judge teams, which includes judges, support staff, technology and work space, along with many other border security measures he included in the legislation, which recently passed the House of Representatives and would fund the government for the rest of the 2018 fiscal year. The total amount equals to 484 immigration judges. “I want to give special thanks to my fellow Appropriators and Appropriations Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee Chairman John Culberson, for all of their support on this issue and working with me to include these necessary judges,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I would also like to thank Appropriations Commerce Subcommittee Ranking Member Serrano, Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Nita Lowey for all their continued support and hard work as well.” “Increasing the number of judges to process immigration cases is a common sense solution that should appeal to everyone, no matter how you feel about immigration policy,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “With a backlog of about 667,000 pending cases, almost half of which are asylum claims, our immigration courts are in dire need of additional judges to expeditiously adjudicate these cases.” In addition to the increase in judges, there is language in the bill directing these judges to border regions with the highest workloads. For years, Congressman Cuellar has made it a priority to get Immigration Judges into border communities. Cuellar continued, “Currently, due in part to the lack of available judges, immigrants at the border are either detained for long periods of time or released into the United States with a promise to return at a later court date. Neither of those is a good option for the immigrants or the enforcement of our laws. Having more judges at the border will help treat immigrants more fairly.” In addition to the new judges, the bill also reiterates language included in the FY17 Omnibus calling on EOIR to address delays that let immigration review cases drag on for years. It includes $35,000,000 for Justice Information Sharing Technology and $504,500,000 for the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) with the purpose of accelerating the hiring process for new judges. More specifically, the bill sets a goal for immigration cases to be processed in 60 days if an individual is detained, and in 365 days if the individual is not detained. Currently, the median length for these cases is 71 days and 665 days respectively. Similarly, the bill continues enhancements provided in FY17 to improve EOIR information technology systems and for courtroom space and infrastructure. These 100 judge teams come on the heels of 10 new judges Congressman Cuellar helped add in the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations Bill which passed Congress in May 2017. The Congressman was also successful in including 55 judges in the FY16 Appropriations bill, bringing the total to nearly 165 new judges in just three years. See attachment here.
03.22.2018	Today, Representatives Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Will Hurd (TX-23), and the San Antonio delegation announced an additional $15 million in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. This bill was approved by the House of Representatives and is moving on to a vote in the Senate. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. USACE has been slowly paying back the funds thanks to the help of Representatives Cuellar, Hurd, and other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation. To date, the project has received $16.2 million in reimbursement. Under this bill, the project is expected to receive an additional $15 million, provided that the USACE continues to prioritize this funding through their FY18 Work Plan. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur, for their assistance in announcing this language, along with Senator Cornyn and Congressmen from San Antonio – Reps. Hurd, Smith, Doggett, and Castro– for their help in repaying these Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I would also like to recognize the San Antonio River Authority, for their steadfast work on this important project.” “The Mission Reach project has been a huge success and undoubtedly benefited the entire San Antonio and Bexar County community. It is time for Bexar County to be reimbursed in full for the loan it provided to the Corps so it can reinvest these funds into other important projects to benefit our citizens. I’m glad to see the Committee on Appropriations embrace this effort and include language in this year’s bill.” Congressman Hurd, whose district includes Mission Espada, part of the San Antonio Missions National Historic Park, added, “Over the last few years, we’ve watched Mission Reach produce tremendous cultural and economic gains, not just for the Southside – but for all of San Antonio – by connecting all five UNESCO-recognized Spanish Missions with hike and bike trails, and attracting millions in private-sector development. I am proud to secure reimbursement year after year so that San Antonio River Authority can continue their transformative ecological, cultural and economic improvements for our city. Additionally, I want to thank Chairman Mike Simpson for his engagement on this issue and his willingness to listen to me and the San Antonio River Authority through numerous meetings throughout the year. I am proud of our close working relationship and look forward to continuing our work together on behalf of San Antonio.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight-mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.”
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON— Representatives Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Filemon Vela (TX-34), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) announced today that they helped secure $96.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill for the United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Cattle Health Program, including $5 million specifically for research and scientific tools to eradicate cattle fever tick, an additional $1 million for USDA ARS to conduct research on cattle fever tick treatments, and language encouraging APHIS and the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) to collaborate with their Mexican counterparts to develop and implement a fever tick control program, so that infected livestock in Mexico does not cross the border and infect Texas livestock. The U.S. cattle industry is valued at roughly $81 billion. Cattle fever ticks carry microscopic parasites that cause anemia, fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, and often death for up to 90 percent of infected cattle. Along the Rio Grande, there is a Permanent Cattle Fever Tick Quarantine Zone, an area that spans eight Texas counties on the border and over a half million acres stretching from the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville to Amistad Dam north of Del Rio, intended to prevent the spread of the often deadly tick-borne disease. Infestations have been reported elsewhere in Central and South Texas as well. “I would like to thank my fellow Appropriators, Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop for their leadership and assistance on this issue, along with fellow South Texas Congressmen Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez,” Congressman Cuellar added. “I also want to thank the Texas Farm Bureau, Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, and the South Texans’ Property Rights Association, for their consistent efforts to help highlight and battle this issue at the local, State, and Federal level for our Texas ranchers and cattle producers.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “Our cattle producers contribute greatly to the economy and way of life in South Texas. They deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality. Fighting these ticks has been an ongoing, uphill battle since 2008, when I included language in the Farm Bill for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program that provided research grants to study cattle fever ticks and their eradication. The funds for the USDA-APHIS Cattle Health program this year are an important step in helping control the tick population and stop the spread of their disease.” The FY18 funding is equal to the funding included in last year’s funding bill. In a restricted budget environment in which the President has planned cuts to nearly every federal non-defense program, this level funding is a big win for the cattle industry. In FY17, USDA allocated $12.2 million from this account to fight the ticks in areas like Starr, Zapata, and Webb Counties in Texas. Congressman Cuellar also included language calling on USDA-APHIS to report to the Committee on their plan to help eradicate the ticks and control their spread. "The South Texans' Property Rights Association considers Congressman Cuellar to be the leading champion of fever tick control in this country,” said Susan Kibbe, executive director of the South Texans' Property Rights Association. “He understands the issue better than anyone in political office and he has fought the hardest to maintain funding that is desperately needed to control this scourge that has plagued us since the 1940's and the research that will ultimately eliminate it." “Texas Farm Bureau appreciates Congressman Henry Cuellar for his work in cattle fever tick control. He’s led efforts to provide ranchers and landowners the resources to help combat this devastating pest.” said Texas Farm Bureau President Russell Boening. “The Congressman recognizes the impact of fever ticks on hardworking ranching families in Texas. His work has been vital to progress in containing the pest. We are happy to have Congressman Cuellar as a partner in eradicating the fever tick.” “I would like to extend my gratitude to the House Committee on Appropriations for supporting South Texas ranchers,” Congressman Gonzalez said. “With this funding, the USDA will have additional resources to augment existing eradication, treatment, and research efforts. When we invest in the well-being of livestock in Texas, we promote economic stability in our region and across the country.” “I am thankful that Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop are taking this necessary step toward protecting the livestock community throughout the state of Texas, and ultimately, the United States,” said Rep. Vela. “This funding will play an essential role in providing researchers with the needed resources to aid in the process of eradicating the cattle fever tick once and for all.” ###
02.15.2018	On Thursday, February 15, Texas House members held a press conference to speak on the inclusion of an $89 billion disaster relief funding package for areas that were affected by hurricanes. “I would like to thank members of the Texas Delegation for joining me today to discuss the recent passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act, which provides funding for a number of essential programs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This important piece of legislation is especially important to Texas, because it does important things for our communities by increasing the limits on both defense and non-defense spending caps, extending the authorization for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and provides additional funding for community health centers.” The Bipartisan Budget Act also includes $89 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations to respond to natural disasters like the ones we saw in the summer and fall of 2017, including Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, and wildfires in California. This emergency disaster supplemental includes necessary funding: · $2.36 billion for crop and related agricultural losses from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Maria and other hurricanes and wildfires, · $17.398 billion for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, · $1.65 billion for Small Business Administration Disaster Loan Assistance, which provides low-interest loans to small businesses and homeowners in all affected areas. “Although we are happy to see funding allocated towards helping our communities affected by these natural disasters, there is much more that needs to be done in Congress. It is the federal government’s responsibility to ensure that citizens receive the resources needed to recover from natural disasters. These were devastating disasters with serious consequences that require sufficient monetary assistance. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I will continue to work with my colleagues to obtain the necessary, substantial funding, so that families can quickly rebuild communities and be better equipped to withstand future disasters.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joins Texas House members in a press conference on disaster relief supplemental funding on Thursday in Washington. In attendance: Representatives Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Pete Olson (TX-22), John Culberson (TX-07), Gene Green (TX-29), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30, and Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Watch the press conference video here
02.09.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement regarding his vote to keep the federal government funded through March 23, 2018: “It is not unusual for a budget to pass that doesn’t satisfy everyone,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As members of Congress, we cannot turn our backs on our fellow Americans. Millions of hardworking citizens depend on us to keep the government working and to make it better for the people that we represent. Congressman Cuellar continued, “Although I do not believe in running the government from week-to-week, the Bipartisan Budget Act proposed today is a significant piece of legislation. Funding for community health centers, which provide reliable and affordable healthcare to underserved communities in my district, will be extended by two years. This bill will also reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for the next 10 years and include essential funding for people and families who rely on health clinics and medical centers. In addition, the bipartisan budget agreement will increase funding for defense and non-defense priorities including disaster relief, National Institutes of Health, opioid and mental health programs, the VA healthcare maintenance backlog, Child Care Development Block Grant program, rural infrastructure and higher education. “While I am pleased that we were able to come to agreement, it is time for Congress to step up and escape this damaging pattern of continuing resolutions and pass full-year appropriations on time. When our agencies fall behind in helping hundreds of thousands citizens deal with Veterans Affairs, Social Security and Medicare, people at home feel the effects. In addition, service members, educators and federal workers across the country do not receive essential paychecks that they consistently rely on when the government stops being productive. “At the same time, just as we have an obligation to keep our promises to our citizens, we also have an obligation to reinstate a process that protects DREAMers, who are here at no fault of their own and active members of our communities. “I am committed to continue working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to pass a necessary, comprehensive spending bill for the remainder of the fiscal year and protecting the DREAMers.” Read additional details regarding the Federal Budget Deal here.
02.07.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, and Homeland Security and Defense Subcommittees, joined Congressman William Hurd (TX-23), Senior Vice President of IBC Bank Eddie Aldrete, Executive Director of Mexicans & Americans Thinking Together (MATT) Aracley Garcia-Granados, Board Member of the MATT Foundation & Former Texas Secretary of State Hope Andrade, along with trade and border experts, to participate in the revealing of a trade study by renowned Texas economist Dr. Ray Perryman. In his study, Dr. Ray Perryman reveals that expanding border trade will bring 700,000 new jobs into the economy and nearly $70 Billion in annual gross product in the United States. It also reports that increased trade will result in an additional 100,000 new jobs and $5 Billion will be added in annual gross product in Mexico. “I have said time and time again that limiting trade between the United States and Mexico would eliminate American jobs and hurt the economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Both countries rely on each other heavily for trade, retail, and tourism. That is why it is important that we modernize NAFTA and strengthen Texas’ relationship with Mexico to optimize prosperity. Thanks to this new study, people will be better informed on how many jobs the United States, Texas, California, Arizona, New Mexico and Mexico stand to gain if we improve and increase trade with our neighbors.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to thank Bordernomics Alliance for assembling this news conference, and I thank Dr. Ray Perryman for releasing his finding to the community. This crucial information will provide necessary, in-depth insight into the positive affects trade has on our country.” Click here to view/download the video from the Bordernomics News Conference today. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks at the Bordernomics News Conference at the Capitol Visitor’s Center in Washington on Wednesday. Read Dr. Ray Perryman’s Report Summary here: https://cuellar.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Bordernomics_Summary_2.pdf About the Bordernomics Alliance: The mission of the Bordernomics Alliance is to increase economic prosperity and quality of life for the ten Border States through active public/private collaborations in advocacy, trade, networking and information. The Study depicts the most current trade relations between the US and Mexico. The study included twelve focus groups with leaders from the ten Border States to explore potential areas of improved cooperation, as well as obstacles to these efforts. The findings will serve as a foundation for the Bordernomics Alliance mission, aimed at raising awareness of an economically powerful mega-region that gives us a competitive advantage in the global market.
01.30.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement following President Trump’s State of the Union Address to Congress: “Tonight, in his State of the Union speech, President Trump addressed the nation and laid out an agenda for the American people,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am hopeful that the framework presented by the President will guide the country towards economic growth and prosperity. Over the past year, I have worked with the Administration on a number of emerging issues that directly affect the people and families in my district. And although there have been times where I have adamantly disagreed with the President’s policies regarding immigration, border security, transportation and trade, I am confident that both sides of the aisle will proactively work together in a bipartisan way towards solutions that are good for Texas and the country.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I look forward to creating more opportunities for all Americans, and will work with the President, Democrats and Republicans in ensuring that we fight for the middle class and do what’s ultimately best for the citizens of this country.”
01.29.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced updates on border water infrastructure projects after a meeting last month in Nuevo Laredo between the U.S. and Mexican sections of the International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC), the North American Development Bank (NADB) and other stakeholders. The meeting centered on ongoing discussions related to the untreated sewage discharges entering the Rio Grande within the limits of Nuevo Laredo, and the infrastructure repairs undertaken to address the issue. Congressman Cuellar has worked to address this problem since his time in the Texas State Legislature, where he secured funding for projects to mitigate the impacts of sewage discharge, which affects the drinking water and sanitation in Laredo and Nuevo Laredo. Earlier this year, Congressman Cuellar introduced the North American Development Bank Improvement and General Capital Increase Authorization Act of 2017 to provide NADB with the necessary funds to invest in clean drinking water, sewage treatment and other essential projects on the U.S.-Mexico border. Congressman Cuellar has also secured millions in funding for the United States-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program, providing grant assistance to underserved communities along the border. This funding will be used specifically to plan, design and construct infrastructure that will provide safe drinking water and adequate sanitation to this region. Currently, the sewer system in Nuevo Laredo does not have sufficient capacity to support the level of wastewater flows, so small quantities of untreated waste water get leaked into the Rio Grande. NADB and the Nuevo Laredo Municipal Potable Water and Sewerage Commission (COMAPA) are working on multiple projects to address this issue, such as improvements to the wastewater collection and treatment system in Nuevo Laredo, and disconnecting the sewer system from the storm water system at multiple locations to reduce and eliminate discharge. “Clean drinking water, sewage and waste treatment are some basic examples of the kinds of projects that we cannot afford to under-fund,” said Congressman Cuellar. “They don’t just keep our communities clean – they also keep us safe from illness and disease. I am pleased to hear that steps are being taken to address this issue that will improve the wellbeing of those living in the Laredo-Nuevo Laredo region." Current agreements between stakeholders to address the issue include: COMAPA will eliminate the La Joya discharge with its own funds no later than February 2018; COMAPA will decrease discharges in the American Collector by 30 to 40% by sectioning reaches of the Riva Palacio Collector; COMAPA will undertake works to eliminate the discharge in the Arroyo Las Alazanas with funding from Nuevo Laredo, budgeted for FY18, which will be completed in the same year; COMAPA will seek funding from NADB to eliminate the discharges in the Arroyo Coyote basin; COMAPA will send the Consulate General of the U.S. in Nuevo Laredo the executive project to eliminate the untreated discharges into the Rio Grande and its tributaries; and Regular meetings will be held in order to track the work being done to eliminate the discharges of untreated sewage into the Rio Grande.
01.26.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, supported the recent reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) that will appropriate over $144 Billion for the next six years and provide funding for 9 million children across the United States. In Texas alone, over 1 million children will benefit by seeing their doctors for health care, preventive health, urgent care and hospitalization as well for services and rehabilitation. Approximately 50,000 children will receive this essential aid in Texas’ 28th district. While serving in the Texas Legislature, Representative Cuellar championed for affordable health care and created the first CHIP pilot program, which was launched at Farias Elementary School in Laredo. The program proved so successful that it served as the basis for Texas’ statewide CHIP program, which expanded coverage to hundreds of thousands of children across the state. “I voted in favor of keeping the government open so that we could include essential funding for people and families in my district, who rely on assistance programs like the Children’s Health Insurance Program, to obtain necessary primary care and preventative care,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a legislator who knows firsthand the struggles of uninsured families, I understand how important it is for Congress to remain open, do its job and appropriate funding for community health clinics, medical centers and children’s health insurance. Since being elected to Congress, I have been working to support America's health care system through legislation and federal grant opportunities. I will continue to work diligently for the people in my district, and reach across the aisle to ensure that continue obtaining funding for health care, for the benefit of the people.” Congressman Henry Cuellar meets with CHIP recipients. Pictured from left to right: Luis Cerda, Epidemiology Supervisor l; Dr. Waldo Lopez, City of Laredo Health Department Assistant Director; Sister Maria Luisa Vera, Sisters of Mercy; Sister Rosemary Welsh, Sisters of Mercy; Sashsa Lopez, Health Department Employee and CHIP Recipient; HC; Mayor Pete Saenz; Julie Bazan, Area Health Education Center (AHEC) Director; and Dr. Hector Gonzalez, City of Laredo Health Department Director.
01.25.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) will host Stephen Willeford, a fourth generation Sutherland Springs native, to witness President Donald J. Trump’s State of the Union Address on Tuesday, January 30 at the nation’s capital. Mr. Willeford bravely confronted the Sutherland Springs assailant last November at the First Baptist Church in Texas. Representative Cuellar will cover traveling accommodations for Mr. Willeford and his wife Pam Willeford to Washington, D.C., for the event. “I speak on behalf of the entire Sutherland Springs community when I say that we are grateful to have such an incredible citizen visit,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is amazing that this man, who almost became a victim himself, managed to face the assailant and ultimately prevented further tragedy from unfolding.” Sutherland Springs native, Stephen Willeford, will fly to D.C. to join Representative Henry Cuellar for the President’s State of the Union Address on January 30, 2018. Photo Credit: Wilson County News/Jeff Valcher. “I would like to personally thank Wilson County Sheriff Joe Tackitt, Jr., County Commissioner Albert Gamez, Jr., County Judge Richard Jackson, community member Johnnie Langendorff, along with Wilson County first responders, volunteer firefighters and health professionals, for their hard work on that saddening day in November. Although the bravery of Wilson County can never be fully rewarded, I am honored to have Mr. Willeford represent these individuals in Washington.” Congressman Cuellar added, “We will always remember the lives lost in Sutherland Springs and I applaud Stephen Willeford for his selfless actions. I am proud to have him as my guest at the President’s State of the Union Address.”
01.22.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security and Defense, released the following statement, addressing federal employees: “I will always do what’s best for the people and families in my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why last week, I voted yes to keep the government open. The last federal government shutdown cost our economy $1.5 billion and furloughed 850,000 government employees each day. "Voting in favor of a government shutdown would be irresponsible. It would negatively affect families across my district by cutting crucial funding for veterans, military service members, educators, and federal workers. In my district alone, a shutdown would impact approximately 44,000 federal employees. Constituents in the counties that I represent would cumulatively lose over $12 million dollars of wages per day. Hard-working citizens who depend on paychecks would be faced with uncertainty regarding their next paycheck. Thousands of active military personnel would continue to do their jobs while not getting paid a dime.” See CNN poll on shutdown: http://cnn.it/2DpMiDk "Congressman Cuellar continued, “That is why I stand with the people in my district when I say that I’ve got your back and I will keep doing what is right for families across Texas. When I voted in Congress in support of government funding, I voted with my constituents’ well-being in mind. I will continue to vote in favor of keeping the government open and work with members in a bipartisan way to address the DACA program, as well as other priorities including CHIP reauthorization, emergency disaster relief, and funding for community health centers and the military.”
01.22.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Defense and Homeland Security, released the following statement, addressing military personnel in his district: “Beginning Saturday, our government shut down because Republicans, who control a unified government, have not been willing to compromise with Democrats on a spending deal. While Social Security Checks will continue and essential governmental services that provide for our national security will remain active, the individuals who carry out these services, including San Antonio’s 32,000 Active Duty service-members, will do so without any promise of a paycheck. This is not how we should be treating our service-members, who fight to protect our freedom on a daily basis. "Last week, I voted to keep our government open because it is our duty as legislators to fund the government.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “The 2013 GOP shutdown cost an estimated $24 billion – an estimated $1.5 billion per day in lost economic output. It is unacceptable that the brave men and women who keep our country safe every day will not be receiving compensation for their critical work. "I will continue to work with my colleagues to forge a compromise and end this shutdown for the sake of our military, Texans, and the American people.” Additional Government Shutdown Facts: 1. San Antonio’s 32,000 active military will continue to guard military bases, operate Air Force Basic Training and defend Defense Department cyber networks, all while not getting paid. 2. San Antonio’s 32,000 active-duty military, half of which are under 25 years old many with families living check to check, are not receiving pay and benefits. 3. Deployed Airmen calling Randolph AFB’s Total Force Service Center for discrepancies in pay, life insurance, family support assistance will receive a busy signal because the Service Center is 50% staffed. 4. 12,000 Texas Guardsman did not drill this weekend. This includes vital readiness drills and paychecks these citizen soldiers will never get back. It directly affects military readiness, which will be damaged during the shutdown. 5. Almost half of all military medical treatment will be canceled or postponed during shutdown, which severely limits military deployment readiness. 6. Gold medal families will not receive death benefits during the shutdown, critical funds that cover funeral, burial, and related travel costs, as well as temporary housing expenses following the tragic loss of their service member. 7. 66,000 San Antonio-area Veteran’s will see a significant impact to healthcare availability during the shutdown, adding to the already staggering backlog at VA hospitals.
01.22.2018	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) voted to reopen the federal government after a three-day government shutdown. The Continuing Resolution passed by a total vote of 266 Yeas to 150 Nays— 221 Republicans and 45 Democrats voted in favor in the U.S. House of Representatives and will keep the government funded until February 8, 2018. It passed in the U.S. Senate by a total vote of 81 Yeas to 18 Nays— 49 Republicans and 32 Democrats voted in favor. The Congressman released the following statement regarding the Continuing Resolution, which passed in the House and Senate, to fund the federal government: “Since September, I have said time and time again that Congress needs to keep the government open in order to properly deal with the DACA program and DREAMers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The inability of the Republican Party to prevent a shutdown, while having full control of the White House, the Senate, and the House – is unacceptable. The most basic job of Congress is to fund the federal government. For this reason, I voted in favor of keeping the government open so that we could keep our offices running while finding commonsense solutions. I am encouraged by the progress we made in Congress and remain as optimistic today, as I was in September, that we will reach a positive resolution for DACA. Months ago, I predicted that this was going to be an issue in both chambers. That is why I spoke with DREAMers, on multiple occasions, and explained that DACA would be resolved separately, in a responsible way. Congress’ vote to continue federal funding will allow my colleagues and I to keep addressing additional legislative priorities including CHIP reauthorization, emergency disaster relief and funding for community health centers and the military. The resolution also calls for worker backpay in the event of a shutdown during fiscal year 2018. This development is a great example of why it is important to reach across the aisle, trust the process, and remain committed to resolving the problems we face. It is with this fundamental principle in mind, that our nation has been able to confront challenges and address them efficiently. I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion in the House and Senate, to serve the American people and get Washington working again.”
01.21.2018	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittees of Homeland Security and Defense, released a statement in response the latest FBI Crime Data, which shows that despite the narrative and rhetoric, violent crime rates in border cities are significantly less compared to the violent crime rate in other major American cities. “Republicans, during the shutdown, have been saying that the border is more dangerous but this is simply not true,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Unlike their narrative, data shows that when you look at the actual numbers, some of the safest communities in the United States are on the U.S.-Mexico border. Cities along the border have lower violent crime and murder rates than places like Milwaukee, WI, Washington, DC, and Louisville, KY.” “Once again, the Republican GOP is mischaracterizing the Southern region as unsafe or ridden with gang violence. But this year, just like every other year I have been in office, the numbers show that the murder rate is significantly higher in Washington D.C. than Laredo, Brownsville, or McAllen. These numbers should cause people to rethink some of the things they may have heard about this region. Misinformation like that hurts our local economy and makes it difficult to attract skilled workers and encourage investment.” Click the following links to view charts depicting the 2016 violent crime rate and murder rate.
01.10.2018	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Homeland Security Subcommittee, released the following statement after attending a bipartisan meeting with President Trump, members of the Administration and other Members of Congress to discuss the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) Program and Immigration Reform: “Today, I met with President Trump and Democrat and Republican senators and representatives in a bipartisan meeting to discuss immigration issues regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program and the DREAMers. I thank everyone who participated in this productive meeting that addressed a variety of concerns from both sides of the aisle and from the Administration. “I am honored to be one of only three House Democrats, and the only House Member from the border invited to participate in today’s meeting. The inclusion of Members of both parties and both houses of Congress is a positive development that I hope allows us to reach an agreement based on common sense and good policy rather than politics. “I am confident that moving forward, the President will be more open to working with us proactively at finding solutions that will not require wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on a giant concrete wall on the southern border. My constituents, and especially landowners in my district, have expressed great concern over the border wall plans. As a Member of Congress who represents the border, and who actually lives on the border, I understand the needs and concerns better than those making decisions about border security without ever having visited the area. “Today’s meeting was highly productive and I do believe that the President, Republicans, and Democrats all want to find a solution that will help the DREAMers. Tomorrow, my colleagues and I will be meeting to come up with a two-phase plan that includes a solution for DACA and, at a later date, comprehensive immigration reform. “As we go forward, I will continue to work in a bipartisan manner in Congress to resolve issues pertaining to border security and immigration, while working to our country’s DREAMers.”
12.21.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and Homeland Security Subcommittee, released the following statement today on the disaster supplemental bill that passed today in the House of Representatives: “I would like to thank both Democrats and Republicans from the Texas and Florida delegations, who worked together in a bi-partisan fashion and put together a funding package that will provide our districts with the necessary resources to get back on track. I also appreciate the help that leadership has given in an effort to provide sufficient funding for states affected by natural disasters. The disaster supplemental will allocate $81 billion dollars to states like Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and California, who will use this money to start rebuilding their communities and implement strategies that will help prevent future destruction,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is the largest amount of funding distributed at one time for federal disaster relief and it will help thousands of citizens in dire needs of hurricane assistance. Although we are appreciative of this funding package, we must also recognize that individuals in these areas still need our help and we must continue to do our part in aiding people in recovery. For this reason, I will work with my colleagues in Congress to support states affected by these devastating disasters.”
12.19.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has released the following statement explaining his vote against the House $1.5 trillion tax bill, H.R. 1 – the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, today in Washington, D.C.: “I genuinely wanted to support this legislation, but after analyzing the details, it fails to accomplish certain goals that true tax reform should strive to achieve. This bill increases the deficit, trigger cuts to Medicare and health care (about 30,000 people in my district will lose access to health coverage), disproportionately benefit the wealthy, and does not do enough to help middle-class and low-income families. Even 12 Republicans voted against the measure because this bill does not do enough for constituents in their districts. Although I have consistently supported corporate tax cuts, any attempt at tax reform must also do enough to help the average middle-class American. This bill creates temporary individual tax cuts, while making the corporate cut permanent. Instead, we should be treating businesses and individuals equitably. Additionally, this bill cuts numerous deductions that would amount to a de facto tax increase for tens of millions of working families. Data show that the wealthy receive the lion’s share of the tax cuts, according to the chart from the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (Table 1). In my district, more than 41 percent of the population makes less than $35,000 (Table 2). These numbers reveal the need to make sure that benefits are shared by everyone, including the middle-class. Table 1 Source: Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy Table 2 Source: US Census American Community Survey I have consistently advocated for fiscal restraint and responsible spending. This proposal adds at least 1.5 trillion dollars to our national debt, triggering Statutory PAYGO’s automatic spending cuts to mandatory programs next month, including a $25 billion cut to Medicare, affecting the over 3.5 million beneficiaries in Texas. It is our duty as lawmakers to balance large tax cuts with responsible spending reductions without cutting essential programs that help middle-class families, and this bill fails to do that. As a member of the Texas House, I co-authored the largest tax cut in Texas history, and in Congress I've repeatedly crossed the aisle to support legislation that cut taxes and burdensome regulations. While this proposal fails to accomplish the true tax reform goals that our constituents want and need, I will continue to advocate for tax cuts at all levels.”
12.06.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar spoke on the House Floor in support of two bipartisan bills to curb gun violence: H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, and H.R. 4477, also known as the Fix NICS Act of 2017. H.R. 38 allows law-abiding citizens to carry a concealed weapon across state lines only if they are not federally prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm, are carrying a valid government-issued photo ID, are lawfully licensed or otherwise entitled to carry a concealed handgun, and follows the laws of the state, county and municipality in which they are carrying concealed. The Fix NICS Act ensures federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to NICS. Additionally, the bill provides consequences for federal agencies who fail to properly report relevant records and ensures that states improve their overall reporting. These bills aim to prevent tragedies like the one in Sutherland Springs from happening in the future.
12.05.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced the winner of this year’s Congressional App Challenge from La Joya Independent School District, Thelma R. Salinas STEM Early College High School students, Josue Herrera, Nyo Cruz, Elmo Garza, and Marco Perez for designing the Travel Guide app, which helps travelers get around in an unfamiliar area. The app designed by the students focuses on four categories: emergency, food, shops and entertainment. “I congratulate these four talented high school students from La Joya I.S.D. on designing a useful and functional app to help travelers in our area. I also thank La Joya I.S.D. Superintendent, Dr. Alda T. Benavides, Thelma R. Salinas STEM Early College High School Principal Dalee Garcia, Mr. Guillermo Flores, Computer Science Instructor, and the parents of these students for encouraging them to develop their talents in coding,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our future is becoming increasingly depended on technology, and this competition encourages students to learn how to code and find out about careers in STEM. Parents and educators can further encourage high school students to participate and think outside the box and develop apps that change the world. I’m excited to participate and I look forward to seeing the creativity of our students in the 28th Congressional District of Texas. “It is always exciting when the talents of our students bring us recognition, so this accomplishment is one we are really proud of as our students faced stiff competition,” said Dr. Alda T. Benavides, Superintendent of Schools at La Joya I.S.D. “A special congratulations goes to these four young men, their teacher, principal and their parents for always encouraging the students to do more with technology and to stay in the forefront when it comes to careers in the STEM fields. They have made us extremely proud! A special thank you to Representative Henry Cuellar for providing these opportunities for our students.” Winners of Congressional Henry Cuellar’s (TX-28) 2017 Congressional App Challenge, from left to right: Thelma R. Salinas STEM Early College High School students Josue Herrera, Nyo Cruz, Elmo Garza, and Marco Perez. (Photo courtesy of Thelma R. Salinas STEM Early College High School) The Travel Guide app, designed by Thelma R. Salinas STEM Early College High School students, and winner of Congressman Cuellar’s 2017 Congressional App Challenge: https://youtu.be/6OJ84IKKloE The four winning students will be recognized by Congressman Cuellar on Saturday, December 9 at 6:00 p.m. at Embassy Suites Palms Crossing in the Rio Grande Valley, and will attend a recognition ceremony in Washington, D.C., in March 2018. Each student will also receive $250 from Amazon. Their app will be displayed on the Congressional App Challenge website and on display in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. About the Congressional App Challenge The CAC is a congressional initiative, managed by the Internet Education Foundation [IEF], a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. In the first 2 years of the program yielded 239 challenges across 33 states. Over 1,150 apps have been created by nearly 4,000 students, and participant demographics surpassed all industry diversity metrics, with young women representing 30% of all competitors. In the first 2 years of the program yielded 239 challenges across 33 states. Over 1,150 apps were created by nearly 4,000 students, and participant demographics surpassed all industry diversity metrics, with young women representing 30% of all competitors. This year, the CAC initiative aims to reach even more constituents. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please http://www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us.
11.29.2017	Today, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 4477, also known as the Fix NICS Act of 2017, a bipartisan piece of legislation introduced by Congressman John Culberson (TX-07) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) that would require federal and state authorities to comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). Specifically, this bill will: • Require federal and state agencies to produce NICS implementation plans focused on uploading all information to the background check system and enforce measures to verify the accuracy of records; • Hold federal agencies accountable and ensure that states improve their overall reporting by implementing serious consequences if they fail to properly report relevant data; • Reauthorize and improve important law enforcement programs to help state governments share relevant criminal record information with NICS. This bill was introduced in response to the horrific shooting that occurred in early November in Sutherland Springs, Texas, which killed 26 people. “I thank the Committee, Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler for marking up this bill so quickly,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The Sutherland Springs shooting revealed dangerous loopholes in the NICS database, and this bill is a necessary step forward in closing those gaps. It is critical that we hold states and federal agencies accountable for accurately and comprehensively reporting relevant information into NICS, while ensuring that these entities have sufficient support and resources to implement these requirements. “I thank Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) for crafting the original Senate version of this bill and for leading Congress towards finding solutions to this crucial issue. I also would like to recognize Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Reps. John Culberson (R-TX), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Michael McCaul (R-TX), Barbara Comstock (R-VA), and Dina Titus (D-NV) for their leadership on addressing this critical matter. This legislation is an essential step in preventing tragedies like the one we witnessed in Sutherland Springs.” “The ongoing negligence of federal employees failing to enter criminal history into the NICS database is absolutely unacceptable. This systemic problem has cost lives, not just in Texas, but across the entire nation,” Congressman John Culberson (TX-07) said. “I’m proud to join my colleague, Rep. Henry Cuellar, in supporting this lifesaving piece of legislation in this bipartisan effort to ensure federal and state authorities enforce existing law.”
11.21.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Horacio De Leon, and Laredo Police Chief Claudio Treviño, Jr., to present a check for $1,500,000 to the City of Laredo Police Department from the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) - COPS Hiring Program (CHP). The funds will be used to hire 12 new police officers at the Laredo Police Department and are part of the $98,495,397 in nation-wide grant funding announced by the DOJ on Monday. “The COPS Hiring Program provides our local law enforcement agencies with the resources they need to protect our communities and, as a member of the Appropriations Committee, I worked with Chairman John Culberson to ensure this program was properly funded,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This funding will increase our community’s safety and help prevent crime. I congratulate City of Laredo and the Laredo Police Department, including Mayor Pete Saenz, the city council, and Police Chief Claudio Treviño, Jr., for their leadership in securing the grant.” Funding from the 2017 COPS Hiring Program will help with the duties of maintaining public safety in Laredo, which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Texas, with an active international trade and international tourism sector. Currently, the Laredo Police Department has 471 sworn officers and 73 non-sworn personnel. That’s about 1.9 officers per 1,000 inhabitants. The national average is 2.4 officers per 1,000 inhabitants. The $1.5 million in federal funds will support 12 new police officers during the course of the grant, which is $41,666.66 per officer position for three years. The City of Laredo will provide a 100 percent match of $1.5 million to over the remainder $41,666.66 for salaries and benefits of newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions whose salaries and benefits are approximately $83,000 per year. The total federal and local investment for the hiring of 12 new Laredo Police Department officers and supporting them for three years is, therefore, $3 million. The City of Laredo will prioritize the hiring of qualified veterans. The new officers will be assigned to support patrol operations, implement a community policing approach, and address specific issues of border violence and illegal immigration. The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) provides law enforcement agencies grants to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase community policing and crime prevention. The City of Laredo last received a COPS grant in 2010 for $4.3 million to hire 22 police officers.
11.20.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program has awarded a grant to the City of San Antonio Police Department (SAPD) in the amount of $3,125,000. This grant will support the hiring of 25 new police officers. These funds are part of the $98,495,397 in grant funding announced today by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) COPS Hiring Program (CHP). “The COPS Hiring Program provides our local law enforcement agencies with the resources they need to protect our communities. As a member of the appropriations committee, I worked with Chairman John Culberson to ensure this program is properly funded,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This funding will increase our community’s safety and help prevent crime. I congratulate City of San Antonio and the San Antonio Police Department, and I thank Mayor Ronald Adrian Nirenberg, the city council and Police Chief William P. McManus for their leadership in securing the grant. I also thank the San Antonio Congressional Delegation for working together as a team.” San Antonio, Texas is the seventh largest city in the United States, and the SAPD serves as the primary law enforcement authority for more than 1.46 million of its residents. It is among the fastest-growing cities in America and the SAPD endeavors to keep up with migration, annexation and global tourism with 2,407 full-time, sworn officers who are required to police more than 465 square miles of sprawling urban area. San Antonio is also recognized as one of the nation’s leading tourist and convention destinations with over 25 million visitors per year. However, even with the city’s thriving economy and a low unemployment rate, the City still faces challenges related to public safety. Funding from the 2017 COPS Hiring Program will help combat the rise in violent crime in the San Antonio area. Much of this violence is attributable to a small segment of the population which is generally involved in criminal gang activity. The $3.1 million in federal funds will support twenty-five sworn police officers that will be assigned to support the Texas Anti-Gang (TAG) program, the Southwest Texas Fusion Center’s Violent Crime Intelligence Program, and the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network system. Additionally, as ‘Military City USA’, the SAPD will continue its active outreach to the veteran community for recruitment. The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) provides law enforcement agencies grants to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase community policing and crime prevention. The CHP grant provides 75 percent funding for entry-level salaries and benefits for three years.
11.17.2017	Yesterday, Thursday, November 17, Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-TX), John Culberson (R-TX), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Ryan Costello (R-PA), and Pete Aguilar (D-CA) introduced H.R. 4434, a companion bill to the FIX NICS Act of 2017 that was introduced in the Senate earlier this week by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Chris Murphy (D-CT). The investigation into the recent shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, revealed enormous gaps in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). This bipartisan legislation ensures federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to NICS. This bill provides consequences for federal agencies who fail to properly report relevant records and ensures that states improve their overall reporting. Federal and state records are thoroughly lacking, and this bill helps fill in those gaps. “Following the horrific shooting that occurred in my district, in Sutherland Springs, Texas, there is a call to action to prevent this kind of tragedy from happening again. But many call for new laws often without considering whether or not current laws are being enforced,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Today, we introduced bipartisan legislation that will fill in the gaps in NICS that led to tragedies like the one in Sutherland Springs. The FIX NICS Act is an example of both parties in both chambers of Congress working together to set aside partisan politics and offer real solutions to the American people. I thank Senators John Cornyn, Chris Murphy, Orrin Hatch, Richard Blumenthal, Tim Scott, Dianne Feinstein, Dean Heller, Jeanne Shaheen, and Rep. John Culberson for their leadership on this bill. I am also grateful to Reps. Elizabeth Esty, Ryan Costello, and Pete Aguilar for their support. “For years agencies and states haven’t complied with the law, failing to upload these critical records without consequence,” Sen. Cornyn said. “Just one record that’s not properly reported can lead to tragedy, as the country saw last week in Sutherland Springs, Texas. This bill aims to help fix what’s become a nationwide, systemic problem so we can better prevent criminals and domestic abusers from obtaining firearms.” “This deal will strengthen the background check system and save lives. Our bill marks an important milestone that shows real compromise can be made on the issue of guns, and I’m glad the House is following suit,” said Sen. Murphy. “It’s no secret that I believe much more needs to be done. But this bill will make sure that thousands of dangerous people are prevented from buying guns. It represents the strongest update to the background checks system in a decade, and provides the foundation for more compromise in the future.” “Had existing law been enforced, the horrific tragedy in Sutherland Springs, Texas would have never occurred. The pure negligence of criminal history reporting into the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) must end,” said Rep. Culberson. “I’m honored to join my fellow Texas legislators, Senator John Cornyn and Rep. Henry Cuellar on the Fix NICS Act and am greatly encouraged at the bipartisan effort to hold federal and state authorities accountable to existing law. I urge my fellow colleagues in Congress to support this critical, lifesaving piece of legislation.” “This bill is an important first step in the effort to take bipartisan action to keep Americans safe from gun violence,” Rep. Esty said. “There are many more steps I believe we can and should take to protect people from weapons of war, but closing the gaps in NICS – our background check system – is a good start. Our proposal demonstrates that we can find ways to work together to protect our families while respecting the Second Amendment. “We now know that the killers in several recent mass shootings, including the devastating attack in Sutherland Springs, were not supposed to be able to legally purchase guns. Gaps in NICS reporting enabled these murderers to gain access to the weapons they used to inflict immeasurable pain and suffering on communities throughout the country. As Republicans and Democrats, we can agree that strengthening the background check system will give us more tools to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers and other dangerous criminals. This bill is just plain common sense. I applaud my colleagues in both parties in the House and Senate for working together on this important, bipartisan step forward. We owe it to the moms, dads, and families throughout the country who have laid loved ones to rest to act now.” “Databases and systems we use for background checks are only as strong as the records are complete,” Rep. Costello stated. “The systems must be accurate and comprehensive so that we can stop these tragedies. This bill is yet another example of my bipartisan commitment to take responsible and constitutional steps to prevent gun violence.” “The gun violence epidemic in our country has devastated too many lives in too many communities, including my own,” said Rep. Aguilar. “By strengthening the background check system, this bill is a commonsense step in the right direction toward preventing future tragedies.” Background on the Fix NICS Act • Requires federal agencies and states to produce NICS implementation plans focused on uploading all information to the background check system showing that a person is prohibited from purchasing or possessing firearms under current law—including measures to verify the accuracy of records. • Holds federal agencies accountable if they fail to upload relevant records to the background check system through public reporting and prohibiting bonus pay for political appointees. • Rewards states who comply with their NICS implementation plans through federal grant preferences and incentives, while increasing accountability through public reporting for those who do not comply with their plans. • Reauthorizes and improves important law enforcement programs to help state governments share relevant criminal record information with NICS. • Creates a Domestic Abuse and Violence Prevention Initiative to ensure that states have adequate resources and incentives to share all relevant information with NICS showing that a felon or domestic abuser is excluded from purchasing firearms under current law. • Provides important technical assistance to federal agencies and states who are working to comply with NICS record-sharing requirements. For more information on H.R. 4434, please click the following link: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/4434
11.15.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced the successful passage of H.R. 1207, a bill he authored to rename the post office located at 306 River Street in Tilden, Texas, as the “Tilden Veterans Post Office.” The bill passed the House and is now awaiting approval from the U.S. Senate. Speaking today on the House floor, Congressman Cuellar stressed the importance of naming this post office in honor of all veterans. “Across my district, there are many examples of fine men and women who have honorably served our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “An example would be Anselmo Villareal of Tilden, Texas. He was drafted into the Army in 1968 and served a tour in Vietnam. He continues to serve others in a local veteran’s service organization. We owe our freedoms to veterans like Mr. Villareal, which is why I am recognizing him, and all veterans, with the dedication of this post office.” Congressman Cuellar also thanked local veteran caregivers for their service to those returning home from duty. “I also thank the Veterans Services Office in McMullen County, one of many organizations that work tirelessly to provide the essential care to those who have returned home from service,” Cuellar added. Congressman Cuellar speaks on the House Floor on Tuesday, November 14 in support of H.R. 1207, a bill he authored to name the Tilden post office the “Tilden Veterans Post Office.” Click here to watch video on Congressman Cuellar speaking on the House floor today.
10.23.2017	Representative Henry Cuellar issued the following statement after reviewing a report from the State Department’s 2018 Congressional Budget Justification stating that five of six Rio Grande Dams have “urgent” safety concerns: “I am working to address the challenges facing the ongoing maintenance and repairs of our international dams on the Rio Grande. I have spoken to IBWC representatives about the best response from the federal government. The agency has assured me that the dams are safe during normal operations and flood events. However, the backlog of unmet maintenance must be addressed in a responsible manner to prevent any further deterioration that could put the community at risk. As a member of the appropriations committee, I am working with my colleagues to address issues that have been overlooked for too long. I will continue to work with IBWC and my fellow Texas border representatives to protect our communities. The safety of my constituents is my top priority.”
10.23.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) is reminding high school students in his district that they still have one week to submit their applications for this year’s Congressional App Challenge: “The Congressional App Challenge is a fun and innovative way to encourage our students to learn how to code and become interested in STEM careers,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Parents and educators can further encourage high school students to participate and think outside the box and develop apps that change the world. I’m excited to participate and I look forward to seeing the creativity of our students in the 28th Congressional District of Texas. About the Congressional App Challenge The CAC is a congressional initiative, managed by the Internet Education Foundation [IEF], a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. In the first 2 years of the program yielded 239 challenges across 33 states. Over 1,150 apps have been created by nearly 4,000 students, and participant demographics surpassed all industry diversity metrics, with young women representing 30% of all competitors. In the first 2 years of the program yielded 239 challenges across 33 states. Over 1,150 apps were created by nearly 4,000 students, and participant demographics surpassed all industry diversity metrics, with young women representing 30% of all competitors. This year, the CAC initiative aims to reach even more constituents. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit https://cuellar.house.gov/students/congressional-app-challenge.htm or http://www.CongressionalAppChallenge.us. If you have questions about the Congressional App Challenge for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, please contact Nichole Hernandez at Nichole.Hernandez@mail.house.gov.
10.11.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted a videoconference from Washington with the Library of Congress to show educators, parents, students and the public in the 28th Congressional District of Texas the free resources available through the Library of Congress. The live videoconference from Washington was held simultaneously in San Antonio, Pleasanton, Laredo and Mission. Participants learned how to access the Library of Congress’ Digital Collections, as well as digital books available for all ages, the Virtual Reference Shelf—which includes classroom materials for teachers—and American history documents such as the George Washington Papers, Alexander Hamilton Papers, Abraham Lincoln Papers, Andrew Jackson Papers and much more. Participants also engaged in a question and answer session with subject-matter expert Donna Brearcliffe, Acting Head of the Humanities Collection Department at the Library of Congress. “The resources available through the Library of Congress are an important learning tool for all of the residents in my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. “History tends to repeat itself. The ability for the public to thoroughly analyze our nation’s rich history is something that will be valuable to our country in the long-run. I thank the Library of Congress for allowing me the opportunity to showcase all of these free resources, offered both online and in-person, as well as the institutions that helped host our constituents today: the University of Texas at San Antonio, Coastal Bend College, Texas A&M International University and the Mission Consolidated Independent School District.” Constituents participate in the Library of Congress videoconference hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) at the University of Texas at San Antonio on Wednesday. Constituents participate in the Library of Congress videoconference hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) at Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton on Wednesday. Constituents participate in the Library of Congress videoconference hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) at Texas A&M International University in Laredo on Wednesday. Constituents participate in the Library of Congress videoconference hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) at the Mission Consolidated Independent School District Central Office Conference Room on Wednesday. About the Library of Congress The Library of Congress is the research library that officially serves the United States Congress and is the de facto national library of the United States. The largest library in the World, it moved from New York and Philadelphia to its current location in Washington D.C. in 1800.
10.06.2017	On Friday, October 6, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN), Inc. President and CEO Isela Dabdoub and SCAN Vice President Dr. Christopher Craddock to announce two federal grants totaling $1,973,630. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) presents a check for $1,973,630 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to SCAN Inc. President and CEO Isela Dabdoub and SCAN Inc. Vice President Dr. Christopher Craddock during a grant announcement Friday morning. Congressman Cuellar announced two grants from HHS to SCAN to combat substance abuse, HIV, viral hepatitis and homelessness among youth and young adults in Webb, Zapata and Starr Counties. “These federal funds and programs are a great investment for maintaining healthy communities along the border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It is one of my priorities as your U.S. congressman to bring federal resources to keep our people safe, healthy and prosperous. I believe we must continue to provide extensive outreach and prevention services. I congratulate Ms. Dabdoub and everyone at SCAN on receiving these two awards from HHS and for their invaluable work that they provide to improve the lives of our the people of our community.” The first grant is awarded from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) - Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) in the amount of $1 million, or $200,000 per year for five years, to be used to implement the South Texas Prevention Navigator Project, which aims to reduce the occurrence of substance abuse, HIV and viral hepatitis among local youth and young adults. Specifically, the grant will expand SCAN’s current efforts to provide substance abuse and HIV prevention services to youth between the ages of 13 and 17 and young adults between the ages of 18 and 24 in Webb, Zapata and Star Counties. SCAN will take a community approach to treatment. On top of traditional counseling, substance abuse treatment services and case management, SCAN will use these funds to create a prevention workgroup, recruiting community health workers, young adult peers, mentors and other key stakeholders and train them to recognize the link between substance abuse and HIV and viral hepatitis infection, and effective prevention strategies. SCAN’s South Texas Prevention Navigator Project will also provide additional outreach to ensure these youth receive prevention services, rapid testing, medical care and referral services. The goal of the program is to increase access to care and expand services for prevention as well as improve outcomes for a minimum of 950 people over the life of the project. The second grant is awarded from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services - Administration for Children and Families in the amount of $973,630, or $194,000 per year for five years, and will allow SCAN to reopen the Arco Iris Transitional Living Program and continue operations for the next five years. the Arco Iris Transitional Living Program will provide shelter and comprehensive support services to runaways and homeless youth between the ages of 16 and 21. During the course of five years, SCAN will use these funds to provide case management, counseling, life skills education and referrals to community services providers, such as doctors and workforce centers. The program will also provide 125 youth and young adults with shelter and another 125 with non-residential comprehensive services. “At SCAN, we are dedicated to helping others in need and constantly seek to fill gaps in services,” said Dr. Christopher Craddock, Vice President of SCAN, Inc. “The South Texas Prevention Navigator Project will help the agency expand the provision of evidence-based substance abuse and HIV prevention services to adolescents and young adults in Starr and Zapata counties. The Arco Iris Transitional Living Program grant will help SCAN provide runaway and homeless youth in Webb County with access to safe shelter and a variety of prevention and support services to foster their healthy development. We are very thankful to the Administration for Children and Families and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for selecting SCAN to receive these grants.”
09.29.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Sheriff Martin Cuellar announced that Webb County Sheriff’s Office Patrol Deputy Rodrigo Davila has been selected to participate in the Advanced Security Training Institute’s Counter-Terrorism Detection, Prevention, and Response Immersion Course in Israel from October 14 through October 23. The competitive international program trains first-responders from across the United States. Pictured from Left to Right: Webb County Commissioner for Precinct 4 Jaime Canales, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Webb County Sheriff Department Patrol Deputy Rodrigo Davila, Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, and Webb County Commissioner for Precinct 1 Jesse Gonzalez.
09.29.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar and Mercy Ministries Casa de Misericordia Administrator Maria Elena Arambula to present a check for $367,539 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, to the Webb County Sheriff’s Office. The federal funds are awarded from the Office of Violence Against Women’s Improving Criminal Justice Responses to Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking Grant Program and will allow the Webb County Sheriff’s Office to work with the local non-profit Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter, to sustain current project activities and expand services to victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking in our community. Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, Casa de Misericordia Administrator Maria Elena Arambula, and Webb County Commissioners, present a check from the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Violence Against Women for $367,539 to the Webb County Sheriff’s Office Friday Morning. The federal funds will be used to work with the local non-profit Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter to sustain current project activities and expand services to victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence and stalking in the community. Specifically, the project will: 1) Support a sexual assault/domestic violence investigator from the Webb County Sheriff’s Department who will oversee a variety of functions devoted exclusively to arrests, investigations, and prosecution of cases dealing with sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking; 2) Support a legal advocate from the Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter who will provide legal advocacy, information and referrals, court accompaniment, support on immigration matters, and safety planning; 3) Provide outreach to victims in the underserved areas of Webb County; and 4) Create bilingual posters and brochures that addressing victim rights. “These federal funds will help in our community-wide effort to end violence against women,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I thank Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar and Casa de Misericordia for their service to our community and for investing their time and resources to make sure that women and families in our community can be safe to live happy and prosperous lives and not in fear.” “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for always being supportive of these causes, especially the fight against domestic violence,” said Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “Together, we will win this fight as a community. I also thank everyone who contributes to such an amazing cause and I will continue advocating for those families who have been victims of domestic violence.” “Casa de Misericordia is grateful for this opportunity to continue partnering with the Webb County Sheriff’s Office to address the issue of domestic violence in our community,” said Maria Elena Arambula, Casa de Misericordia Shelter Administrator and Grants Manager. “With this support from the Department of Justice – Office on Violence Against Women, Casa de Misericordia will be able to continue supporting survivors of domestic violence explore their legal options, secure legal resources, plan for their safety, and work through the protective order process.”
09.27.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar released the latest FBI Crime Data showing that despite the narrative and rhetoric, violent crime rates in border cities are significantly less compared to the violent crime rate in other major American cities. In 2016, the cities of Brownsville, and McAllen enjoy crimes rates so low, they happen to account for only 1/8th the crime rate of the city of Detroit, 1/5th the crime rate of Houston, and less than half of the crime rates of the cities of Dallas and San Antonio. When narrowing the focus to just murder, the picture becomes even clearer. The murder rates in Washington D.C., Dallas, and Houston are more than four times the murder rates in Laredo, McAllen, and Brownsville, respectively. “Once again, when you look at the actual numbers, they show that some of the safest cities in the United States are on the U.S.-Mexico border. Many people mischaracterize the Southern region as unsafe or ridden with gang violence. But this year, just like every other year I have been in office, the numbers show that the murder rate is significantly higher in Washington D.C. than Laredo, Brownsville, or McAllen. These numbers should cause people to rethink some of the things they may have heard about this region. Misinformation like that hurts our local economy and makes it difficult to attract skilled workers and encourage investment.” Crime itself saw an upswing between 2015 and 2016, both nationally and in the state of Texas, but the crime rates in these border cities stayed relatively level. The Latest FBI Crime Rates Also Show: • The murder rates in Washington, D.C., was nearly double the murder rates in Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville and El Paso combined. The aggravated assault rate was significantly lower in border cities compared to other Texas and U.S. cities. Detroit’s aggravated assault rate was almost 19 times the rate in McAllen, Texas. • The murder rates in Houston, Dallas, and San Antonio were more than twice the murder rate of Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville and El Paso, respectively. • The robbery rates in border cities were less than half of the rates in Detroit and Washington, D.C., and significantly lower than Dallas or Houston. Click the following links to view a chart of the 2016 violent crime rate and murder rate.
09.20.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced the awarding of two grants supporting research and engineering outreach and retention with a combined value of $1,101,950 to Texas A&M International University (TAMIU). The first is a National Science Foundation Grant totaling $398,112 to acquire a new laser scanning confocal microscope. A confocal microscope is an essential tool for studying cell and gene function in animals, plants, and microorganisms, as well as in material sciences. By securing this prestigious grant, Congressman Cuellar is confident that the new microscope will improve the quality and expand the scope of the research, training, and, educational activities in many diverse scientific disciplines including biology, chemistry, and engineering. The second award comes from the U.S. Department of Education, Minority Science Engineering Improvement Program (MSEIP) and provides a $703,838 over an anticipated three-year grant period. It is focused on engineering majors, their recruitment, and retention and targets increasing engineering majors by 20 percent for each year of the program. It also looks to achieve an 85% retention rate for project participants and to increase the five-year graduation rate for engineering majors. Congressman Cuellar is confident it will do so through cost-effective outreach and retention activities, student mentoring and faculty professional development. “Texas A&M International University is already one of the finest research institutions in the United States. I am confident that these awarded grants will help serve the purpose of contributing to and enhancing the growth and quality of TAMIU’s Science and Engineering programs,” said Congressman Cuellar, “I am also very pleased to hear about the new initiative to increase the number of minority students entering engineering and science programs. I thank President Dr. Pablo Arenaz for his assistance in securing these noteworthy endowments.” TAMIU president Dr. Pablo Arenaz said the grants help to advance the University’s research profile and recruitment of engineering and science students. “We greatly appreciate Cong. Cuellar’s leadership in helping us to realize these grants. Individually and combined, they will accelerate the University’s continued growth as a research-oriented institution, providing distinct, high-quality student experiences, and advance our initiatives to dramatically increase the number of minority students entering engineering and science majors at TAMIU,” Dr. Arenaz said. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) presents a check for two federal grants totaling $1,101,950 to Texas A&M International University Wednesday. Pictured from left to right are Dr. Kameron Jorgensen, Dr. Tariq Tashtoush, Dr. Mahmoud Khasawneh, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Dr. Deepak Ganta, Dr. Sang Chul-Nam, Dr. Pablo Arenaz, Dr. Tom Mitchell, Dr. John Kilburn and Dr. Claudia San Miguel. The NSF supports research, innovation, and discovery that provides a foundation for economic growth. It hopes that by advancing the frontiers of science and engineering, the United States can develop the knowledge and cutting-edge technologies needed to address the challenges of today and the future. The MSEIP, part of the U.S. Department of Education, assists predominantly minority institutions in effecting long-range improvement in science and engineering education programs to increase the flow of under-represented ethnic minorities, especially minority women, into science and engineering careers.
09.18.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-job, pro-growth policies in the U.S. House of Representatives. The award ceremony took place at the Greater Mission Chamber of Commerce. This past year, Congressman Cuellar was given a 93 percent rating by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “I thank the Chamber for granting me this award,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I will continue to support pro-business, pro-growth policies at the federal level because I know that support for business means greater economic prosperity for our country. My district is home to major international trade ports and agricultural businesses, as well as thousands of local small businesses that provide jobs and support to our economy through free enterprise.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the second session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 8 Senate votes and 14 House votes, related to access to capital for small businesses, ensuring our workforce has the skills necessary for the jobs of tomorrow and helping American manufacturers compete in a global economy. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. Congressman Henry Cuellar poses with Spirit of Enterprise Award with John Gonzalez, U.S. Chamber of Commerce Director for Congressional and Public Affairs, Southwest/South Central Region.
09.15.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced the awarding of $5,796,502 in federal funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s Airport Improvement Program to the Laredo International Airport. Congressman Cuellar announced $26.3 million in FAA funds last year to the Laredo International Airport to help finance the airport’s ongoing efforts to reduce noise for those living near the airport and the full reconstruction of an existing taxiway. This new FAA grant of $5,765,502 will be used to make necessary improvements to the airport’s facilities, which include widening the existing taxiway, the design and rehabilitation of the existing cargo apron and installing guidance signs. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) and the City of Laredo on Friday announce a $5.8 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s Airport Improvement Program. The funds will be used to make necessary improvements to the airport’s facilities. Pictured from left to right are Assistant City Manager Robert Eads; Congressman Henry Cuellar; District V Council Member Nelly Vielma; Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz; Laredo International Airport Advisory Board Members Elizabeth Alonzo Villarreal, Adrienne G. Trevino and Jose D. Gonzalez; and Acting Airport Director Mario Maldonado. “The Laredo International Airport is quickly becoming a leader in international trade air traffic and passenger destination experience,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These federal funds announced today will allow the Laredo International Airport to make much-needed updates to its infrastructure that will enable safer and more efficient movement of both cargo and passenger air traffic,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Horacio de Leon, Council Member Nelly Vielma, Acting Airport Director Mario Maldonado and all who helped secure this funding and continue to support the growth and development of our city.” “The FAA’s award of $5.8 million to the Laredo International Airport to implement safety and operational efficiencies will greatly assist in enhancing Airport services and contribute to the airport’s success in serving our community’s leisure travel as well as furthering Laredo’s competitive role in international trade,” said Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. Specifically, the funds will help with the following projects at the Laredo International Airport: · Widen Taxiway E to meet current FAA design standards for aircraft users of the airport · Phase 10 for the rehabilitation of 16,300 square yards of the existing cargo apron to maintain the structural integrity of the pavement · Rehabilitate existing cargo apron and Phase 11 Design · Phase 2 for the installation of airfield guidance signs throughout the airfield due to magnetic variation at the airport The Laredo International Airport has received over $130 million in federal funds in the last 10 years and over $230 million in over the last 25 years.
09.12.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the federal government has taken another step toward giving McAllen, Texas the new courthouse facilities he has been championing for years. A key committee of the governing body on U.S. court facilities has decided to recommend that McAllen’s courthouse be considered a priority. Today, the Judicial Conference of the U.S. Courts decided to recommend McAllen for a completed feasibility study and inclusion on its Courthouse Priorities Plan, meaning it will be considered as a priority to receive new facilities. In response, Congressman Cuellar said: “This announcement from the Judicial Conference is another important step toward the new courthouse facilities that McAllen needs and deserves. I will continue to fight for this for my constituents. "I am grateful for the support of Senators Cornyn and Cruz, Representatives Gonzalez and Vela, Mayor Jim Darling, and Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa. This has been a team effort and their cooperation has been essential. I would also like to thank GSA and the Administrative Office of the Courts for their work on this.” Congressman Cuellar has advocated for new courthouse facilities in McAllen since 2010, when he first directed GSA to study the issue. That study found that the current courthouse space, rented from a private owner, is not adequate, causing security concerns and other problems. Since then, Congressman Cuellar, along with Judge Hinojosa, Senators Cornyn and Cruz, Representatives Gonzalez and Vela, and Mayor Darling, has fought for McAllen through years of red tape. In September 2016, they achieved a breakthrough when the Administrative Office of the United States Courts agreed to instruct GSA to take the next step: a phase 1 study of what actions are necessary to improve or replace the facilities in McAllen. The results of that investigation were released by GSA in April, in a document laying out four options for the future of the courthouse. Those options, however, did not take into account the generosity of the City of McAllen and Mayor Darling who have offered to donate land for the project. Now that the Judicial Conference has made its recommendation, it will be up to Congress to appropriate funding for this essential project. Congressman Cuellar, as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, will keep the public updated about next steps in the process.
09.07.2017	From Left to Right: United States Representative Henry Cuellar, Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolf, Bexar County Director of Government Affairs Melissa Shannon, and Estell Group Counsel Penelope Farthing. Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosted a meeting with Bexar County Judge, Nelson Wolf, and Appropriations Committee staff to discuss the reimbursement for the Mission Reach Project. The Mission Reach Project was a United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats in 2013. Bexar County loaned USACE $61.3 million to complete the project. The federal government has slowly been paying back the funds to Bexar County since that time. On Friday, U.S. House of Representatives is set to approve language providing another $10 million in reimbursement, on top of the $16.2 mission previously provided, for the Mission Reach project in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill. Congressman Cuellar secured this provision through his role on the Appropriations Committee. “I would like to thank Senator Cornyn and my fellow Representatives from San Antonio – Rep. Castro, Rep. Hurd, Rep. Doggett and Rep. Smith – and Senator Cruz for their help in securing this repayment of Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Mission Reach project has had undeniable benefits to the community and it is time the Corps repays the loan so Bexar County can put these funds to work continuing to improve our community.” The meeting today was to discuss continuing and increasing this reimbursement so Bexar County and San Antonio can reinvest it into the San Pedro Creeks project. This project would transform San Pedro Creek into a world-class park and natural creek habitat. It will improve flood control and revitalize habitat and water quality. “I thank Rep. Cuellar for his ongoing effort to leverage his position on the Appropriations Committee to ensure that Bexar County is reimbursed for its investment in Mission Reach” said County Judge Nelson Wolf. "This funding is a game changer because the reimbursement will allow us to invest in additional projects. I am grateful for the hard work of Representative Cuellar and Judge Wolf to get this done" added State Representative Roland Gutierrez. “I also want to thank Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Nita Lowey, as well as Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur for working with me on including the reimbursement language in the bill,” Congressman Cuellar continued. According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.”
09.06.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the House Appropriations Committee (the committee that sets federal discretionary funding) and the Homeland Security Subcommittee spoke on the House Floor today in favor of funding to help the people of Texas and Louisiana affected by Hurricane Harvey. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) speaks on the House floor on Wednesday in support of providing over $7.4 billion for FEMA and $450 million for the Small Business Administration to help with rescue and relief efforts in areas affected by Hurricane Harvey. Click here to view video. “Hurricane Harvey has left an enormous path of destruction across Texas and Louisiana,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Over 19 trillion gallons worth of rainwater flooded and destroyed homes and property, and killed at least 60 people, including Alonso Guillen, a DREAMer who drove more than 100 miles to help rescue on a boat those who first responders couldn’t reach. The cost of total damages will likely exceed $125 billion not including, of course, priceless objects and memories. This bill today is a down payment on our efforts to assist Texas and Louisiana and will equip both FEMA with an extra $7.4 billion, and the Small Business Administration with $450 million in funding, to provide recovery and relief efforts. I thank the House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen, Ranking Member Nita Lowey, Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman and fellow Texan, John Carter, and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard for bringing this important bill to the floor today. I also thank my colleagues for working together to pass this bill and help our fellow Americans in need.” The bill passed the House 419-3 and heads to the Senate where it must be passed before being sent to the President for his signature.
09.05.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced plans to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “In my home state of Texas over 120,640 young people, who have known no other country, have benefited from the DACA program. Of those, over 104,959 are working and contributing over $6 billion annually to the GDP. Ending this program, as the Trump Administration has announced today, is not only a failure on humanitarian grounds, but also economically. I will continue to fight to keep families together and to keep our American values strong while opposing the building of walls. We need a bipartisan comprehensive immigration approach to solve the challenges at our border and ensure that DREAMers have a place in the nation that they love. I call on my colleagues in Congress to act now and to stand up to protect families and the rights of everyone in our country.”
09.01.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Hidalgo County has received $3.5 million in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $19.73 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Hidalgo County has received over $20 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Hidalgo County Sheriff, Eddie Guerra, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2017 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
09.01.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Webb County has received $3.35 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $19.73 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 Million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Webb County has received over $21.1 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Webb County Sheriff, Martin Cuellar, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar and the federal government for channeling these funds to Webb County,” said Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “These dollars will go a long way in helping us with our mission of keeping our community safe. Rest assured that this money will be put to good use as we work to protect our residents.” The FY 2017 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
09.01.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Starr County has received $1.56 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $19.73 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 Million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Starr County has received over $10 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Starr County Sheriff, Rene Fuentes, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar and the federal government for providing Starr County with these funds and allowing us to enhance our community’s security apparatus. Starr County Sheriff Rene Fuentes said. “These dollars go a long way in our mission of keeping our community safe. We will use these funds to fortify our existing structure and identify new practices to continue to make Starr County one of the safest Counties in all of Texas.” The FY 2015 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
08.14.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) presented three Laredoans, Isabella Davila, Sugeily Jarmon, and Lauren Melendez, from the Girl Scouts of America with the Congressional Award for achieving goals in voluntary public service, physical fitness, personal development and expedition, and exploration. The Congressional Award offers young people the opportunity to set personally challenging goals and achieve them. Along the way, they serve their communities and learn about qualities like responsibility, citizenship, and the ability to plan and organize. “Congressional Award recipients represent the best of America. Isabella, Sugeily and Lauren have committed to bettering themselves and giving back to their community," Congressman Cuellar said. I congratulate these young women in for achieving their goals in voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition and exploration and thank them for being role models to our youth. I also thank the parents, teachers and mentors who work every day to provide guidance and opportunity to our nation’s youth.” Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) on Monday presents three Laredoans with the Silver Congressional Medal for achieving goals in voluntary public service, physical fitness, personal development and expedition, and exploration. Pictured from left to right are Lauren Melendez,Sugeily Jarmon, Isabella Davila and Congressman Cuellar. The silver Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for young Americans. About the recipients Isabella Davila – Silver Medalist For Volunteer Public Service, Isabella served the Girl Scouts of America by dedicating her time helping with events. She babysat, was a camp counselor at Camp Bayview, and helped with “Badge University”, an event for Girl Scouts to earn badges and learn new life skills. For Personal Development, Isabella improved her drawing and painting skills so she could create bigger and more elaborate art. She attended many art classes, was an assistant to a local instructor during classes and paint parties, organized art exhibits for students, and helped at summer camps. Isabella’s goal for Physical Fitness was to be able to perform a jump serve in tennis as well as improve her overall strength and health. She took tennis lessons, played in tournaments, ran and walked for conditioning, and attended yoga classes. She is now better at tennis and can successfully jump serve. For her Expedition, Isabella helped plan a five day, four-night camping trip. She traveled to Camp Huisache, a local Boy Scout campsite. In addition to practicing cooking, tying knots, hiking, learning archery and fishing, and birdwatching, Isabella also engaged in service projects to improve the camping grounds. Through the Congressional Award, Isabella gained experience, knowledge, the satisfaction of helping others, and life-long friendships. Sugeily Jarmon – Silver Medalist For Volunteer Public Service, Sugeily dedicated her time to helping the Girl Scouts of America. She served in many capacities including babysitting, helping with homework, and becoming a camp counselor at Camp Bayview. Sugeily’s goal for Personal Development was to make her own scarf by becoming better at crocheting. She spent two to three hours every week with a mentor who was very skilled in the art of crocheting. They practiced techniques and she was eventually able to successfully make her scarf. For Physical Fitness, Sugeily wanted to make the Varsity Track team in her main event, the high jump. She worked hard training in both the gym and on the track. She was able to make the Varsity team and improved her record jump from 4’0 to 4’8. For her Expedition, Sugeily helped plan a five day, four-night camping trip. She traveling to Camp Huisache, a local Boy Scout campsite. In addition to practicing cooking, tying knots, hiking, learning archery and fishing, and birdwatching, Sugeily also engaged in service projects to improve the camping ground. Through the Congressional Award, Sugeily learned more about herself and personal traits. Lauren Melendez – Silver Medalist For Volunteer Public Service, Lauren worked with the Girl Scouts of America. She volunteered at many events such as “Badge University”, which helps girls earn badges and learn new skills, an “Outdoor Skills Spectacular”, which provides girls the skills they need to survive in the wilderness. She also served as a camp counselor at Camp Bayview. For Personal Development, Lauren served as a debate coach for Mock Trial at the National Hispanic Institute. She spent the summer coaching incoming sophomores in high school in an effort to prepare them for a four-day competition known as the Great Debate. Lauren’s goal for Physical Fitness was to be able to jog three miles in approximately a half hour. She has a condition known as spondylolisthesis which prevents her from doing any activity that puts a strain on her back. Lauren attended a physical fitness class, physical therapy sessions, and walked around a track near her home. She has greatly improved her physical health and can now jog rather than being restricted to walking. For her Expedition, Lauren helped plan a five day, four-night camping trip. She traveled to Camp Huisache, a local Boy Scout campsite. In addition to practicing cooking, tying knots, hiking, learning archery and fishing, and birdwatching, Lauren also engaged in service projects to improve the camping grounds. Through the Congressional Award, Lauren has learned the importance of time management and consistency when acquiring a new skill. Congress established the Congressional Award in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement, and service in young people. It is a private-public partnership, which receives all funding from the private sector, and was originally signed into law. Visit www.congressionalaward.org for more information on the award and its requirements.
08.03.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that the Laredo Fire Department has been awarded $3,276,320 in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). These funds will allow the Laredo Fire Department to hire 24 new full-time frontline firefighters. This funding comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Staffing for Adequate and Emergency Response Grants (SAFER) program. Congressman Cuellar helped fund this grant program through his role on the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. The SAFER grant, now in its 18th year, previously awarded funding to hire firefighters for the City of Laredo’s Fire Department in 2007 and 2011. These federal funds will be used to cover a competitive base salary and the robust benefits package (including health, dental, vision, FICA, and life insurance) offered by fire departments across the country to first-year firefighters for three years. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) and representatives from the City of Laredo and the City of Laredo Fire Department announce a SAFER federal grant for over $3.2 million at the Laredo Firefighters Headquarters on Thursday. The funds will be used to hire an additional 24 firefighters. “The City of Laredo’s Fire Department is among our nation’s finest,” Congressman Cuellar said. As a Laredo native and a member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, I am pleased to see that federal decision-makers recognize the quality of our local responders. I’m glad to have played a role in securing this funding and it truly was a team effort. There’s no doubt that the real winner is the community of Laredo.” The SAFER grant is a three-year cost sharing program. During the first and second year, the federal grant will cover 75 percent of the salary and benefits of the firefighters, while the city covers the other 25 percent. In the third year, the federal grant will cover 35 percent of the salary and benefits, and the city will cover the other 65 percent. In total, the City of Laredo will provide matching funds in the amount of $2,036,632, creating a grand total investment in the Fire Department of $5,312,952. The new firefighters will improve the staffing and deployment capabilities of the fire department and will allow for more effective response to emergencies. These new positions will minimize current firefighters working excessive hours due to overtime and will help decrease the probability of job injuries due to fatigue. These funds will provide the community an increased number of trained, certified, and competent firefighters that will continue to ensure the community has ample protection from fire and fire-related hazards and can meet the challenges of a growing community. “We are truly blessed to be in a position to expand the services of the fire department to better our response time to emergencies in the furthest northern area of our community,” said City of Laredo Fire Department Chief Steve Landin. “We want to express our sincere appreciation for the support of our Congressman, FEMA, Mayor, City Council, City Manager’s Office and the International Association of Firefighters. We look forward to working hand-in-hand with all involved in providing emergency services to our community.” With this new grant and those received in 2007 and 2011, a total of 69 new firefighters will have been hired by the City of Laredo through the SAFER program. ###
08.03.2017	Rep. Cuellar announces today bipartisan passage of one of the biggest expansions to the GI Bill since its original inception in 1944; an effort he co-sponsored. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 ensures that new servicemembers will be able to use the benefits they’ve earned throughout their lifetime. Originally, the GI Bill placed a 15-year limit on when recipients could use the tuition payments for higher education. With the Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act, Veterans now have more flexibility on when they decide to attend higher education and obtain new skills later in life. “This common-sense expansion of GI education benefits is the right thing to do for our veterans, and my colleagues agreed as it passed through the Senate and House,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The GI Bill has serviced so many already and now with this expansion of veteran’s benefits, our veterans will have every tool necessary to gain the skills needed to enter or return to the workforce. I am proud to have played a part in securing its passage.” The GI Bill of Rights, known as the Serviceman’s Readjustment Act of 1944, helped fuel the country’s post-World War II economic boom and educate generations’ of veterans. Since 2009, more than 350,000 veterans have earned post-secondary certificates and degrees through the GI Bill. Some additional major benefits of this bill include: · Expanding access to a wider group of service members: Members of the National Guard and reserves will be eligible for expanded educational benefits as will Purple Heart recipients. · Simplified & Reduced Administrative Costs: The bill will simplify benefits for future service members by consolidating the GI Bill into a single program (Currently there is the Montgomery GI Bill and the Post 9/11 GI Bill) · Enhancing STEM Education: The bill will provide an additional 9 months of eligibility for those service members working toward a Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics (STEM) degree. · Aiding Survivors and Dependents: By increasing the Dependent Education Benefit, nearly 100,000 dependents and survivors will experience significant increases to their benefits for decades. A full fact-sheet of all of the major details surrounding this new bill can be located here.
07.27.2017	Committee on Education and the Workforce - Contact: Press Office (202) 226-9440 https://edworkforce.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=401928 Today, at a press conference with small business owners, members introduced the Save Local Business Act (H.R. 3441). The legislation, sponsored by Subcommittee Chairman Bradley Byrne (R-AL), rolls back the extreme joint employer scheme to protect American jobs and entrepreneurship. The bill has received bipartisan support with 29 co-sponsors. Upon introduction, members released the following statements: “Federal labor policies should be focused on benefiting workers and helping small businesses grow instead of creating barriers that limit opportunity,” Chairman Byrne said. “Also important, Congress – not unelected federal bureaucrats – should set our nation’s labor policies through statute instead of executive fiat. Under this bipartisan legislation, workers, and the businesses they work for, will be given much needed clarity and certainty. I am especially pleased our legislation has earned support from both sides of the aisle, and I am committed to continuing to build momentum as the bill moves through the legislative process.” “Right now, local employers across the country face an enormous amount of uncertainty because of a vague and confusing joint employer standard,” said Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC), chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “Congress cannot sit on the sidelines while this harmful scheme threatens to destroy jobs and make it harder for entrepreneurs to achieve the American Dream of owning a business. I commend Congressman Byrne for his leadership in this bipartisan effort to protect jobs and the spirit of entrepreneurship in local communities.” “Owning and maintaining a small business has been part of the American dream for generations,” Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) said. “We must ensure that our small businesses and franchises receive fair treatment from the government, and not confusion and arbitrary regulations that harm them. I have heard from small business owners throughout my district and the country, and it is clear that the NLRB’s joint employer decision was a major threat to the life of the franchise industry and the dream of business ownership for millions of Americans. The Save Local Business Act will provide our nation’s small and franchise businesses the certainty necessary to grow and invest in the future. I encourage my colleagues from both parties to support local businesses by supporting this legislation and restore the traditional joint employer standard as the law of the land.” “The Obama administration repeatedly pursued regulatory policies that harmed workers and small businesses, and the misguided joint employer decision is a prime example,” said Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI), chairman of the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions. “It threatens to upend small businesses, undermine their independence, and put jobs and livelihoods at risk. This bipartisan bill restores a commonsense framework that will provide clarity to small businesses and allow workers and entrepreneurs to freely pursue their dreams.” “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” Rep. Luis Correa (D-CA) said. “All across our country, small businesses enrich communities and employ the bulk of Americans. We must do everything we can to support small business entrepreneurs. Anyone willing to take on the risks and responsibilities inherent in owning a business deserves our support.” BACKGROUND: The Save Local Business Act amends the National Labor Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act to restore the commonsense definition of what it means to be an employer. The legislation clarifies that two or more employers must have “actual, direct, and immediate” control over employees to be considered joint employers. For fact sheet, click here. For bill summary, click here. For bill text, click here.
07.27.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today issued a statement after the Trump Administration and GOP leadership sent a joint release stating their decision to drop the controversial Border Adjustment Tax (BAT): “A border adjustment tax would have meant a $5 trillion tax hike for hard working families. Trade is a major part of the Texas economy, and all Americans depend on a robust trade industry to provide them with affordable goods and services through import and export with other nations. I’m grateful that the Administration and Republican leadership agreed with me to abandon the BAT that was out of touch with the values of everyday Americans. I will continue working with my colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, to fix our nation’s tax system to make sure Americans keep more of their hard-earned money and that we bring about policies that encourage small businesses to hire and grow our economy.”
07.27.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has issued a statement after the House of Representatives voted 235-192 to approve a spending bill that includes nearly $1.6 billion for the construction of a border wall: “I am disappointed by the fact that today the House voted for a spending bill to provide nearly $1.6 billion of funding for the border wall,” said Congressman Cuellar. “However, I know that this is only the first step and I am certain the final version of this bill will not have funding for the wall before going to the President for signature. “I have been outspoken against President Trump’s wall because, unlike those who have championed for a giant wall between the United States and Mexico, I represent the border and actually live there. I speak with constituents, landowners, law and immigration enforcement regularly and we all know that a massively expensive wall is nothing more than a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century challenge. “Terrain and natural barriers, along with a vigilant Border Patrol, already provide adequate deterrence for immigrants in most areas. A wall will also require substantial land grabs by the federal government and violate current landownership rights, ranching operations and wildlife refuges. This money would be far better spent on technology and properly equipping our border agents to plug the gaps. “We cannot just throw money at a problem and hope it goes away. We must work to come up with a strategic and methodical way to deal with immigration, and that includes working with our allies in Mexico and Central America.”
07.26.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today spoke on the House floor to voice his opposition to H.R. 3219 that would add nearly $1.6 billion in federal taxpayer funds to begin construction of a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border. Congressman Cuellar speaks on the House floor Wednesday against a costly and ineffective border wall. “President Trump promised the American people that Mexico would pay for a wall, but he’s footing the bill to American taxpayers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “A wall would be ineffective and funding it, fiscally irresponsible. The Administration is attempting to provide a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century challenge. “I was born and raised on the border. A massively expensive wall would violate the rights of landowners, many of whom have had their land for generations, since before the United States was a country. The wall also presents significant problems when it comes to river access for livestock and wildlife. “Mexico is one of our closest allies and we should be working with them to combat issues like immigration. Mexico works with our government to stop threats before they even reach our borders and we must focus on further advancing that relationship. We can secure the border in a much more effective way and at a fraction of the cost by utilizing advanced technology, getting rid of Carrizo Cane, increasing the agents and properly equipping them on the border, and working with Mexico and Central America.” Click here to view the video of Rep. Cuellar speaking on the floor today.
07.19.2017	Last night, Republican leadership quietly decided to move the $1.6 billion in funding for President Trump’s border wall from the House Appropriations Homeland Security spending bill to an omnibus spending package for the Department of Defense and a handful of other related agencies. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) today responded with the following statement: “I am disappointed by this decision to move funding for the President’s senseless border wall to the Department of Defense omnibus spending package without a vote. Adding this funding for the wall to the defense spending measure, against regular order, is an attempt to ensure its passage through the House early next week without time for full review. We owe it to our constituents to debate the rationality behind this expensive project. I will continue to listen to my constituents and emphasize to my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, that a wall is nothing more than an inefficient 14th Century solution to a 21st Century problem.”
07.17.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has issued the following statement regarding a notice that the National Guard Bureau will provide the State of Texas with approximately $3 million from the remaining Fiscal Year 2017 Operation Phalanx funds that Cuellar secured in the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill for National Guard border security operations: "While I’m disappointed that the Department of Homeland Security did not request flight hours for National Guard aerial support operations to assist the U.S. Border Patrol under Operation Phalanx for this year, I’m nonetheless glad to see that the funding I secured through the Defense Appropriations bill for that Operation is going to the men and women in our Texas National Guard for critical training operations at our southern border. "I thank Senator John Cornyn, House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chair John Carter and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard, and Appropriations Defense Subcommittee Chair Kay Granger and Ranking Member Peter Visclosky for their support of this important training opportunity for our Texas National Guard."
07.17.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has issued the following statement after the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative released its objectives for negotiating NAFTA: “My colleagues from Texas and I understand the importance of NAFTA for our state. We want to work with the Administration in a bipartisan way to make sure we build upon the success of NAFTA and modernize it for the 21st Century. That’s why I met with both United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Mexico’s Secretary of Foreign Affairs Luis Videgaray last week to discuss how to improve NAFTA in order to provide more opportunities for business, trade and jobs for Americans. While I still have some reservations, the objectives released today by the USTR are a sign that the Administration and Ambassador Lighthizer are listening to the concerns about policy and rhetoric. I will work with Ambassador Lighthizer to continue this progress as we move towards negotiations. Texas competes on a global scale with competitive countries and I will continue to do all that I can to make sure we get the best deal for my constituents from this renegotiation.”
07.14.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement regarding the delay in reimbursement for border communities who have provided humanitarian assistance during the surge of immigrants which began in 2014: Today, I have sent a letter to Governor Greg Abbott addressing the concerns of our border communities who have yet to be reimbursed for the humanitarian assistance they provided when the federal government was overwhelmed by a large influx of immigrants that began in 2014. I fought hard in Congress to author appropriation language that allows our local communities on the border to be reimbursed for their humanitarian assistance with federal dollars. The State of Texas as the administrator of these federal dollars has not reimbursed our border communities. I understand that there was a misunderstanding between the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Governor’s Office that led to the assumption that the use of FEMA’s State Homeland Security Program federal funds to reimburse communities was not allowed. I understand that this misunderstanding has held the state back from reimbursing communities. I have since contacted FEMA to provide further clarification to the State of Texas stating that border communities are allowed to be reimbursed for their humanitarian assistance going back to 2014. There is, now, without a doubt clarification that the State of Texas can tap into its average of $20 million a year from the State Homeland Security Program’s federal dollars to reimburse our communities. Attached are Congressman Cuellar’s letter to Governor Greg Abbott, and a bulletin released from FEMA today clarifying allowable reimbursements for border communities.
07.13.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) announced the inclusion of funding for 65 new immigration judges and support staff he helped secure in the Fiscal Year 2018 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies (CJS) Appropriations bill. This bill was passed by the House Appropriations Committee, of which Congressman Cuellar is a member, and awaits action by the full U.S. House of Representatives. “There are over 500 thousand immigration cases awaiting trial or resolution in this country. That means over half a million people are currently waiting in limbo to have their immigration cases adjudicated,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The inclusion of these 65 new immigration judges will bring the total number of judges to 449 and help reduce this enormous backlog of pending cases. Getting this backlog resolved and allowing people quick resolution of their cases should appeal to everyone, no matter how you feel about immigration policy.” In addition to the increase in judges, there is language in the bill directing these judges to border regions with the highest workloads. Congressman Cuellar has been trying to get Immigration Judges into border communities for years. “Currently, due in part to the lack of available judges, immigrants at the border are either detained for long periods of time or released into the United States with a promise to return at a later court date,” Cuellar continued. “Neither of those is a good option for the immigrants or the enforcement of our laws. Having more judges at the border will help treat immigrants more fairly, and keep our country safer.” In addition to the new judges, the bill also reiterates language included in the FY17 Omnibus calling on EOIR to address delays that let immigration review cases drag on for years. The bill sets a goal for immigration cases to be processed in 60 days if an individual is detained, and in 365 days if the individual is not detained. Currently, the median length for these cases is 71 days and 665 days respectively. Similarly, the bill continues enhancements provided in FY17 to improve EOIR information technology systems and for courtroom space and infrastructure. “I want to give special thanks to my fellow Texan, CJS Chairman John Culberson, for all of his support on this issue and working with me to include these necessary judges. I also would like to thank CJS Ranking Member José Serrano, Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Nita Lowey for all of their support and hard work on this bill, as well.” These 65 judges come on the heels of 10 new judges Congressman Cuellar helped add in the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriation bill which passed Congress in May. The Congressman was also successful in including 55 judges in the FY16 Appropriations bill bringing the total, if this bill is signed into law, to nearly 130 new judges in just two years. The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill is one of twelve annual appropriations bills used to fund the government each year. Congressman Cuellar sits on the Appropriations Committee which has jurisdiction over crafting these twelve annual bills.
07.13.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Texas Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Congressmen Will Hurd (TX-23) and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) met with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in response to a letter from Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar requesting a meeting with Members of Congress representing constituencies along the U.S.-Mexico border. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR), headed by Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, handles international trade and investment policy, including negotiation for trade agreements. In May, the USTR formally notified Congress of the Administration’s intent to re-open negotiations with our North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) partners, Canada and Mexico. In today’s meeting, the leaders discussed the modernization of the NAFTA and emphasized that the trade deal is working for Texas and the nation. Congressman Cuellar has already been working with businesses on both sides of the border, as well as with Mexico’s Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray, the Mexican Ambassador to the U.S. Gerónimo Gutiérrez and other government leaders from both the United States and Mexico, to see how we can build upon and improve NAFTA. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) meet with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and other members of the Texas Delegation Thursday in Washington to discuss the modernization of NAFTA. Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) explains how NAFTA has been crucially important for Texas during a meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and other members of the Texas Delegation Thursday in Washington. Regional trade has increased over the treaty’s first two decades, from roughly $290 billion in 1993 to more than $1.1 trillion in 2016. Additionally, Cross-border investment has surged, with U.S. foreign direct investment (FDI) stock in Mexico increasing in that period from $15 billion to more than $100 billion. “A 21st Century update for this deal is the best outcome for our economy and American jobs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Some administration officials still publicly threaten to eliminate NAFTA – and that uncertainty affects job-creating businesses in Texas and the U.S. We must work to update NAFTA quickly, especially because politics in all countries makes it more difficult to finalize a good deal. “We’ve already done the work for a new trade deal for the 21st Century with the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). It would be a great template after which to model NAFTA 2.0. Improving NAFTA quickly will provide certainty so businesses can get back to business. “Every time the United States takes a step back, China takes two steps forward. American workers deserve access to the global economy. That’s why I supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership and why I want to help build NAFTA 2.0. I thank my friends and colleagues, Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, and Representatives Hurd and Gonzalez for advocating for Texas and the border to make sure we continue to have a robust economy focused on trade.” Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar have consistently worked cooperatively on this issue. In April, the two co-hosted a Laredo roundtable discussion on the subject with business leaders from both sides of the border. Additionally, Congressman Cuellar met with Mexico’s Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray this week to discuss the modernization of NAFTA. Last month, Congressman Cuellar met with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin to discuss the subject.
07.12.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), a member of the House of Representatives Appropriations Committee, announced the inclusion of language he sponsored authorizing an additional $10 million in federal reimbursement for the San Antonio/Bexar County Mission Reach Project in the Fiscal Year 2018 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. This bill was passed by the House Appropriations Committee today and now awaits consideration by the full House of Representatives before being sent to the Senate and on to the President’s desk. The Mission Reach Project is a United States Army Corps of Engineers project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats in 2013. Money to complete the project was loaned to the USACE by Bexar County. The USACE has been slowly paying back the funds thanks to the help of Congressman Cuellar and the other members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation. To date, the project has been authorized $16.2 million in reimbursement. If this bill is signed by the President the project will receive at least another $10 million of the total $45 million outstanding. “I would like to thank Appropriations Energy & Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur for their assistance in including this language along with Senators Cornyn and Cruz, and my fellow Congressmen from San Antonio – Rep. Castro, Rep. Hurd, Rep. Doggett, and Rep. Smith – for their help highlighting the importance of repaying these Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Mission Reach project has been a huge success and undoubtedly benefited the entire San Antonio and Bexar County community. It is time for Bexar County to be reimbursed in full for the loan it provided to the Corps so it can reinvest these funds into other important projects to benefit our citizens. I’m glad to see the Committee embrace this effort and include this language in this year’s bill.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight-mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill is one of twelve annual appropriations bills used to fund the government each year. Congressman Cuellar sits on the Appropriations Committee which has jurisdiction over crafting these twelve annual bills.
07.12.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of more than $116 million in federal funds he helped secure in the Fiscal Year 2018 Agriculture Appropriations bill to help fight Citrus Greening Disease and fruit flies. To help Rio Grande Valley farmers battle the scourge of Citrus Greening Disease, the Congressman advocated for and secured over $57 million for the Citrus Health Response Program and Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group operated through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). He was also able to help secure over $59 million for fruit fly exclusion and detection. The U.S. citrus industry is worth $11 billion; however, due to Citrus Greening Disease and fruit flies, the industry has faced steep damages and economic losses. All of the citrus growing counties in Texas are under quarantine, and the State of Florida has seen a reduction in citrus production of over 60% since 2007. In addition, the Asian Citrus Psyllid, the vector of the Greening Disease, has been found in California. “The spread of this disease has called the domestic citrus industry’s future into question. That is why this funding is so vitally important,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our citrus growers, through their hard work, feed America and the world, so controlling these pests and diseases is a top priority. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, it is my job to make sure the USDA has the funding to protect our food supply. That is why I have consistently fought for significant funding for the USDA-APHIS citrus programs.” He continued, “I would like to thank Congressmen Valadao and Congressman Rooney, both representing states that have also suffered from Citrus Greening, for their help in securing this funding. I would also like to thank fellow Rio Grande Valley Congressmen Vicente Gonzalez and Filemon Vela for working with me on these issues. Finally, I would especially like to recognize Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop for their leadership and assistance.” Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a nonprofit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Grande Valley and has personally seen the effects of citrus diseases like citrus greening since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “Congressman Cuellar has long supported agriculture and the United States and Texas Citrus Industries,” Mr. Murden said. “Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? Because, that is what could happen if we do not stay on top of this issue. We cannot thank Congressman Cuellar enough for his support and his bi-partisan approach to problem-solving.” The FY18 Agriculture Appropriations bill is one of twelve annual appropriations bills the Congress uses to fund the federal government each fiscal year. This bill passed the House Appropriations Committee today and now awaits action by the full House of Representatives before being sent to the Senate and on to the President. Congressman Cuellar is a member of the Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over drafting these bills.
07.12.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of $91.5 million which he helped secure in the Fiscal Year 2018 Agriculture Appropriations bill for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Cattle Health Program; funding that is used in part to help fight the spread of cattle fever ticks. The U.S. cattle industry is valued at roughly $81 billion. Cattle fever ticks carry microscopic parasites that cause anemia, fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, and often death for up to 90 percent of infected cattle. Along the Rio Grande, there is a Permanent Cattle Fever Tick Quarantine Zone, an area that spans eight Texas counties on the border and over a half million acres stretching from the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville to Amistad Dam north of Del Rio, intended to prevent the spread of the often deadly tick-borne disease. However, infestations have been reported elsewhere in Central and South Texas as well. “Our cattle producers contribute greatly to the economy and way of life in South Texas. They deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Fighting these ticks has been an uphill and ongoing battle since 2008 when I included language in the Farm Bill for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program that provided research grants to study cattle fever ticks and their eradication. The funds for the USDA-APHIS Cattle Health program this year are an important step in helping control the tick population and stop the spread of their disease.” The FY18 funding is level to the funding included in last year’s FY17 funding bill. In an austere budget environment in which the President has planned cuts to nearly every federal non-defense program, this level funding is a big win for the cattle industry. In FY17 USDA allocated $12.2 million from this account to fight the ticks in areas like Starr, Zapata, and Webb Counties. Congressman Cuellar also included language calling on USDA-APHIS to report to the Committee on their plan to help eradicate the ticks and control their spread. "We can't thank Congressman Cuellar enough for his leadership in preserving funding for fever tick eradication, especially in these times of severe cuts in other parts of the federal budget ", said Susan Kibbe, executive director of the South Texans' Property Rights Association. "South Texas ranchers are losing ground against the fever tick as it is and level funding is critical to prevent wide-spread devastation in the cattle industry, both here and in other parts of the state and the country. We are very fortunate that Congressman Cuellar has the knowledge and the will to address the situation." "Our thanks to Congressman Henry Cuellar for recognizing the threat the fever tick poses to animal agriculture in Texas, especially the southern regions," said Texas Farm Bureau President Russell Boening. "The congressman has taken action to contain this threat. The leadership of South Texas Congressmen Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez has also been invaluable in this effort." “I thank Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop for their leadership and assistance on this issue along with fellow South Texas Congressmen Vicente Gonzalez and Filemon Vela,” Congressman Cuellar added. “I also want to thank the South Texans’ Property Rights Association, Texas Farm Bureau and the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association for their consistent efforts to help highlight and battle this issue at the local, State, and Federal level for our Texas ranchers and cattle producers.” The FY18 Agriculture Appropriations bill is one of twelve annual appropriations bills the Congress uses to fund the federal government each fiscal year. This bill passed the House Appropriations Committee today and now awaits action by the full House of Representatives before being sent to the Senate and on to the President. Congressman Cuellar is a member of the Appropriations Committee, which has jurisdiction over drafting these bills.
07.11.2017	Mexico’s Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Luis Videgaray, met with Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today in Washington to discuss negotiations for the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Congressman Cuellar has known both Secretary Videgaray and President Enrique Peña Nieto personally for many years. Congressman Cuellar also met with Mexico’s Under Secretary for North America Carlos Manuel Sada Solano, and Mexican Ambassador to the United States Gerónimo Gutiérrez, who were also in attendance to discuss bilateral issues with Secretary Videgaray. Congressman Cuellar, an expert in international trade, represents some of the busiest ports in the country in South Texas, including the third largest customs district in the United States. The customs district, which includes Laredo and the various ports in the Rio Grande Valley, is third in the country only after Los Angeles and New York. Congressman Cuellar’s congressional district is also home to the largest inland port in the entire western hemisphere, Laredo. The two leaders discussed ways in which we can modernize NAFTA and increase international trade between the United States and Mexico through different modes of transportation. They also discussed tax reform, the North American Development Bank (NADBank) and general issues of border security. “The Secretary and I discussed how to further build on the positive relationship between our two countries to increase trade and tourism,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We have a great opportunity to remake a NAFTA 2.0 that works for our modernized economies and our people. I thank Secretary Videgaray for visiting with me and other Members of Congress in Washington and I look forward to working with him on the renegotiation of NAFTA and efforts that benefit our countries.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), left, meets with Mexico’s Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray, right, in Washington on Tuesday to discuss NAFTA, NADBank and bilateral relations. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), left, meets with Mexico’s Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray, center left, Mexico’s Under Secretary for North America Carlos Manuel Sada Solano, center right, and Mexican Ambassador to the United States Gerónimo Gutiérrez, far right, on Tuesday to discuss NAFTA, NADBank and bilateral relations.
07.11.2017	El secretario de relaciones exteriores de México, Luis Vidgegary, hoy se reunió con el congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, en Washington para discutir las negociaciones del Tratado Libre de Comercio de América del Norte (TLCAN, o NAFTA por sus siglas en inglés). El congresista Cuéllar y el secretario se conocen desde antes de la elección del Presidente Enrique Peña Nieto. El congresista Cuéllar también reunió con el Subsecretario para América del Norte, Carlos Manuel Sada Solano, y el Embajador de México a los Estados Unidos, Gerónimo Gutiérrez, quienes estuvieron en la junta para dialogar con el Secretario Videgaray sobre los temas bilaterales. Cuéllar es un experto en el comercio internacional y es representante federal de varios puertos de mayor importancia en los Estados Unidos. El distrito aduanal incluye Laredo y varios puertos del Valle del Río Grande en el sur de Texas, y ocupa el tercer lugar en distritos aduanales después de Los Ángeles y Nueva York. El distrito de Cuéllar también incluye el puerto interior más grande del hemisferio occidental – Laredo, Texas. “The Secretary and I discussed how to further build on the positive relationship between our two countries to increase trade and tourism,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We have a great opportunity to remake a NAFTA 2.0 that works for our modernized economies and our people. I thank Secretary Videgaray for visiting with me and other Members of Congress in Washington and I look forward to working with him on the renegotiation of NAFTA and efforts that benefit our countries. Los dos líderes discutieron como modernizar el TLCAN, maneras de incrementar el comercio internacional entre los Estados Unidos y México por medio de varios modos de transporte. También discutieron sobre la reforma tributaria, el Banco de Desarrollo de América del Norte (NADBank por sus siglas en inglés) y temas de la seguridad fronteriza. "El canciller y yo discutimos cómo seguir fortaleciendo la relación positiva entre nuestros dos países para aumentar el comercio internacional y el turismo”, dijo el congresista Cuéllar. "Tenemos una gran oportunidad para rehacer un ‘NAFTA 2.0’ que funcione para ambas economías modernizadas y para nuestra gente. Le agradezco al Secretario Videgaray por visitarme a mi a mis colegas en el Congreso aquí en Washington, y espero trabajar con el Secretario para la renegociación del TLCAN ". El congresista por Texas Henry Cuéllar, izquierda, se reúne con el Secretario de Relaciones Exteriores Luis Videgaray Caso, derecha, en Washington el martes para hablar del TLCAN, el Banco de Desarrollo de América del Norte y las relaciones bilaterales. El congresista por Texas Henry Cuéllar, izquierda, se reúne con el Secretario de Relaciones Exteriores Luis Videgaray Caso, centro-izquierda, el Subsecretario para América del Norte Carlos Manuel Sada Solano, centro-derecha, y el Embajador de México a los Estados Unidos, Gerónimo Gutiérrez, derecha, en Washington el martes para hablar del TLCAN, el Banco de Desarrollo de América del Norte y las relaciones bilaterales.
07.05.2017	LAREDO, Texas – Today at the World Trade Bridge, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials, the Office of U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), the City of Laredo, the State of Texas, and representatives of the international trade community to announce a $100 million plan to increase technology and modernize Laredo’s World Trade Bridge and make it a world-class cargo facility. This will transform the port into the World Trade Bridge 2.0. “The World Trade Bridge is already the busiest land port in the western hemisphere with over $300 billion in trade generated and over 2 million trucks crossing annually,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Laredo is a powerhouse when it comes to trade, and we want to make sure we remain number one. This collaborative effort to increase technology and expand our facilities on the bridge will increase the port’s efficiency significantly over the next few years. With more efficient processing, increased cargo capacity and reduced wait times, we will save millions of dollars in lost economic output and create jobs while securing our strategic location as a world trade hub. I thank CBP Acting Commissioner Kevin McAleenan for his leadership, as well as CBP Executive Assistant Commissioner Todd C. Owen, CBP Office of Field Operations Deputy Executive Assistant Commissioner John Wagner, CBP Director Field Operations David P. Higgerson, CBP Assistant Director for Field Operations Brad Skinner, CBP Port Director for the Laredo Port of Entry Greg Alvarez, CBP Deputy Port Director Alberto Flores, Senator Cornyn, Mayor Pete Saenz and the City of Laredo and our stakeholders for working together to invest in Laredo’s future.” Congressman Cuellar hosts a meeting with local, state, federal and international stakeholders at the World Trade Bridge conference room Wednesday to discuss the new $100 million master plan for World Trade Bridge. Congressman Cuellar and stakeholders address the media during a press conference Wednesday to discuss the new $100 million master plan for World Trade Bridge. World Trade Bridge 2.0 - Blueprint for Modernizing the Federal Inspection Station into a World Class Cargo Facility Plans for the World Trade Bridge include transforming the Federal Inspection Station in the next few years to increase cargo efficiency by: · Allowing for automated pre-screening and inspection data collection of U.S.-bound cargo earlier in the supply chain · Automating certain functions allowing CBP Officers to focus inspection skills on high-risk enforcement, security and compliance shipments · Integrate technologies such as robust WIFI capability, Radio Frequency Identification Devices (RFID), drive through multi-energy truck portal X-ray systems and other CBP Cargo Processing systems into a common software package, and include state of the art modern traffic control queueing systems · Build out a cargo traffic control tower with an operations center, X-Ray Image analysis stations, and cameras to monitor actives through the compound in real time and provide managers with container status at any point and the tools to monitor efficiency · Include State of the Art Inspection and Technology Training Center and Agricultural Laboratory · Maximize join inspections with other U.S. Federal, State and Mexico Customs partners to the greatest extent possible · Flexible and scalable inspection areas to meet future needs including bypass lanes This future investment is expected to exceed $100 million, which includes $10.3 million from the City of Laredo for the Free and Secure Trade (FAST) Lanes Relocation Project which will expedite trade from trusted partners. 559 Program (Donation Acceptance Program) The City of Laredo will be working with CBP and GSA to construct a dedicated lane on the bridge for the sole use of participants in the trusted shipper program. The project will create a dedicated lane on the bridge, allowing FAST trucks a more direct route from the bridge, into the new inspection facility, and on to their final destinations. The new 599 Program will include: · a new roadway connecting to four new primary inspection booth · a non-intrusive inspection (NII) area · two exit control booths · and access to the current secondary inspection facility and Hazmat area This project is expected to reduce choke points and increase the bridge’s capacity by 47 percent while reducing trusted shippers traffic delay times from 30 minutes to five minutes. It is anticipated to require three years of design, procurement, and construction. Expansion of World Trade Bridge The City of Laredo is working on an application to amend its Presidential Permit to expand the World Trade Bridge from eight lanes to 16 lanes. FASTLANE Grant In addition to this investment in the port, the City of Laredo, Webb County, and the Regional Mobility Authority (RMA), in partnership with the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), have submitted a competitive $96 million Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) Grants program application to the U.S. Department of Transportation to create additional lanes on Bob Bullock Loop (U.S. Interstate 69W) from the Port of Entry to U.S. Interstate 35 (I-35) and five direct connectors on the I-35/I-69 Interchange. If awarded, the construction of this project will significantly reduce freight traffic congestion, help minimize accidents, improve shipping time, and increase trade and job growth. As part of his ongoing advocacy for these programs, Congressman Cuellar has invited Randi Fredholm-Hutchinson, Chief Counsel for the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, for a meeting about transportation and trade with stakeholders in Laredo on July 10. The group will also discuss DOT’s Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) discretionary grant program to help rebuild and develop our nation’s infrastructure.
06.30.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) has moved to improve government efficiency and save taxpayer money, by ordering multiple agencies to reduce unnecessary printing, avoid improper payments that last year wasted $144.3 billion, and collect fines in a timely manner. Paperwork Reduction In the recent Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which funded the federal government for the rest of the 2017 fiscal year, Congressman Cuellar ordered many federal bodies - including the Departments of Labor, Health & Human Services, State, Interior, Homeland Security, Commerce, and Justice, as well as NASA and the National Science Foundation - to reduce printing and reproduction costs. Each Department and agency will have to report to Congress about their efforts in these areas, including how much taxpayer money is saved. Congressman Cuellar will share the results of those reports with the public. Improper Payments He also ordered an effort across the federal government to eliminate improper payments, which includes payments incorrectly distributed to deceased persons, accidental overpayment, and other errors that cost taxpayers money. In fiscal year 2016, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported $144.3 billion in improper payments, an increase from fiscal year 2015’s $136.7 billion. Cuellar directed the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to specifically target the issue of payments to deceased persons, and to report to Congress within 120 days on their progress. FCC Fines Finally, he also ordered the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to submit a report on the status of efforts to track and collect fines. He expressed concern that the FCC is not collecting fines in a timely manner, and therefore missing an important source of revenue. Congressman Cuellar’s Thoughts “Improper payments, excessive printing, and other wasteful practices can really add up over time,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “Improper payments alone lost $144.3 billion in taxpayer money in 2016, and while some of that was returned, most was not. Estimates put government printing costs at close to $3 billion annually; there is certainly an opportunity to cut that down. I introduced these common sense measures to save taxpayer money and make government work more efficiently for the American people.”
06.30.2017	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) met with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to discuss NAFTA renegotiation, along with Representatives McSally, Pearce, and Hurd. The purpose of the meeting was for the Secretary to hear from members of Congress who represent districts on the U.S.-Mexico border. Congressman Cuellar said, “I talked with Secretary Ross about the issues that matter most to my constituents, including infrastructure at the border, the North American Development Bank (NADBank), the energy sector, cross-border financial transactions – and, of course, NAFTA. I found him to be very knowledgeable about trade issues. We had a productive conversation and I look forward to continuing to work with him.” Congressman Cuellar and a bipartisan group of members of Congress meet with Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to discuss NAFTA and other issues on Thursday, June 29, 2017. Secretary Wilbur Ross and Congressman Henry Cuellar discussed infrastructure at the border, the North American Development Bank (NADBank), the energy sector, cross-border financial transactions, and NAFTA renegotiation.
06.29.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) recently announced that Roma High School sophomore Melissa Garcia was chosen as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner for District 28. Today, Congressman Cuellar met with Melissa and her family during a reception in Washington, D.C., where her artwork is currently on display at the U.S. Capitol Building. Travel for Melissa and her family to Washington was provided by Southwest Airlines and other accommodations by the Upper Valley Art League and Bill Canales of Rio Motors Co. in Rio Grande City. Melissa’s winning entry is a color pencil drawing on poster board entitled "Acceptance Within," which depicts two cultures coming together and signifies the acceptance of herself as a young Mexican-American woman on the Texas-Mexico border. “Melissa has a great deal of talent. Her artwork is not only beautiful and deeply inspiring, but it reflects the diversity of the communities on the border.” said Congressman Cuellar. “My district is blessed to have many exceptional and talented students. I congratulate Melissa on winning this year’s congressional art competition for my district and I thank this year’s sponsors, Billy Canales of Rio Motors Company and Southwest Airlines, for providing travel and accommodations for Melissa and her family as they traveled to Washington, D.C. I also thank the Upper Valley Art League for judging this year’s submissions, and our parents and educators for investing in our future and our communities.” Congressman Cuellar presents Melissa Garcia, winner of the Congressional Art Competition for District 28, with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition at his office in Washington, D.C., Thursday. First launched in 1982, this year marks the 35th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, close to 700,000 high school students have participated in the program.
06.27.2017	Last week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) took three separate steps to help struggling Americans lift themselves from poverty by pursuing education and entering the workforce. Local leaders including the Superintendent of Floresville Independent School District applauded the decisions. On Friday, June 23, he voted in support of the Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act, which passed the House of Representatives. On Thursday, June 22, he voted for the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which was also successful, and which contained elements of legislation that he had co-sponsored, the New HOPE Act. On Wednesday, June 21, he announced that he had increased funding for Job Corps by $15 million, to a total $1.7 billion for the 2017 fiscal year. Congressman Cuellar said: “My constituents send me to Washington for solutions to the real challenges that affect them every day – like unemployment and underemployment. They work hard to support their families, so I work hard to give them the opportunities they deserve. I supported both of these bills for the same reason I increased the Job Corps funding: because these programs let Americans find pathways out of poverty through good jobs.” The bipartisan Accelerating Individuals into the Workforce Act redirects $100 million from the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Contingency Fund to apprenticeship, subsidized employment, and career pathways programs for one year. The government will measure the success of these programs, and if they prove effective at transitioning poor individuals into careers, they may receive the same or additional funding in the future. The bipartisan Strengthening Career and Technical Education Act gives state and local career and technical education (CTE) programs more flexibility to update their programs for 21st century job needs, to support students from disadvantaged communities, to more effectively measure their results, and to target federal dollars where they are needed most. CTE programs, usually in partnership with local institutions like technical schools or job centers, help train students and workers for high-skill jobs in fields from information technology (IT) to construction to manufacturing. Congressman Cuellar represents all or part of nearly 40 school districts that, combined, receive more than $5 billion in federal funding for their CTE programs through Carl D. Perkins grants. (Funding details available online: http://tea.texas.gov/Finance_and_Grants/Grants/Applying_for_a_Grant/Entitlements,_Grants_Administration_Division/.) The districts that will benefit from this legislation include Judson ISD, Floresville ISD, Jourdanton ISD, Lytle ISD, Pleasanton ISD, Poteet ISD, Hidalgo ISD, McMullen ISD, Rio Grande City ISD, Laredo ISD, Zapata County ISD, Roma ISD, La Vernia ISD, Poth ISD, Poteet ISD, and dozens more. Dr. Sherri Bays, Superintendent of Floresville Independent School District, said: “Floresville ISD works to make every graduate Future-Ready; Career and Technology Education plays an integral part in helping us achieve that goal. Perkins funds help support programs like Welding, Information Technology, Culinary Arts, Criminal Justice, Automotive Technology, and many others, that teach our students the skills necessary to successfully step into the 21st century workplace. Supporting the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act shows that Congressman Cuellar, and others like him, understand the importance of making funds available that help our students, and students across our state, lead prosperous lives.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education Act also contained language from the New HOPE Act, legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Cuellar which provides governors the authority to consolidate or eliminate unnecessary and burdensome work licenses or certifications that provide limited consumer protection. As Congressman Cuellar said when he introduced the legislation: “When most Americans think of professions that require government certifications, they probably picture airline pilots, electricians, or doctors. However, more than a quarter of all American workers need some kind of government license for their jobs these days, from hair stylists to florists – and the requirements vary widely from state to state. In Texas, getting those licenses requires an average $304 in fees, 326 days of training, and two exams. Yet often these expensive requirements do not actually protect consumers; they are intentional efforts from people already in a given profession, to make it harder for new folks to compete with them. This legislation will give governors the flexibility to remove licensing requirements that just don’t make sense. It will create a better environment for entrepreneurs to create jobs. And it will save time and money for working people in thousands of occupations.” Job Corps is a free training program that helps American youth from low-income families develop job skills and find employment. Congressman Cuellar successfully increased the funding by $15 million compared to last year, as the program has been highly effective in Texas and nationwide. More information on Job Corps funding is available on Congressman Cuellar’s website: https://cuellar.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=401323
06.26.2017	“Today the independent Congressional Budget Office calculated that the Senate health care legislation will leave 22 million more Americans uninsured. My most vulnerable constituents - people with disabilities, older Americans, children, working families - would be hit the hardest. This is unacceptable. The Affordable Care Act is not perfect, but it has made life better in real ways for so many members of my community in Texas. We need to keep what works and fix what doesn't in a bipartisan way." The summary of the CBO score is available online: https://www.cbo.gov/publication/52849.
06.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today met with a group of students who will be attending the 11th Annual Baku Energy Summer School in Baku, Azerbaijan, from July 9 to July 22. The trip is made possible through a historic agreement that Congressman Cuellar facilitated between TAMIU and Azerbaijan in 2015 to promote student and faculty research and study collaborations on energy between universities in Texas, Mexico and Azerbaijan. The Baku Energy Summer School (BESS) is an annual two-week certificate program that brings together world-renowned scholars and policymakers to examine and gain a better understanding of global energy and environment issues and their practical application. The program is offered by the Caspian Center for Energy and Environment at ADA University in Baku, Azerbaijan, in partnership with the State Oil Company of the Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR), British Petroleum in Azerbaijan and ExxonMobil. “This is an amazing opportunity for our local students to explore the world and to learn from world experts on energy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We want our students to take advantage of the great opportunities in engineering and other STEM fields in order to develop our future energy landscape in South Texas and Northern Mexico. I thank Elin Suleymanov, Azerbaijan’s Ambassador to the United States, and the Azerbaijan Embassy in Washington for extending this opportunity to us in South Texas. I also thank Dr. Arenaz for making this agreement between our universities possible, and Dr. Dominguez for organizing this study abroad opportunity.” Of the group of students attending BESS this year from Texas and Mexico, six are from Texas A&M International University (TAMIU), one is the University of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio, and one from el Instituto Tecnológico de la Laguna in Torreón, México. The students and TAMIU faculty will be leaving to Baku on July 7 and return July 22. “This is a remarkable opportunity for our students and truly underscores the 'international' in our name. Being able to meet with world-renowned scholars, academicians and policy makers to examine and gain a better understanding of global energy and environmental issues and their practical applications is an experience few students will ever have. We are most thankful to Cong. Cuellar for helping to make this study abroad opportunity a reality for our students," said TAMIU President, Dr. Pablo Arenaz.
06.22.2017	Today, Senator John Cornyn (TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) sent a letter to Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer, Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, requesting that he meet with all Members of Congress representing constituencies along the U.S.-Mexico border to discuss modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The letter is attached. It reads: Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: Upon your May 18, 2017, notification to Congress of the Administration’s intent to “initiate negotiations with Canada and Mexico regarding modernization of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA),” and pledge that you “will consult closely with Congress in developing our negotiating positions,” we write to you to request a meeting with all Members of Congress representing constituencies along the U.S.-Mexico border. The U.S.-Mexico border region is unique and with over $579 billion in two-way trade between the US and Mexico in 2016 the border region knows the opportunities and challenges of North American trade better than most. We ask that you sit with us for a substantive discussion of the role this trade plays in the economy of our region and take these considerations into mind as you negotiate a 21st Century NAFTA agreement. Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar have consistently worked together on this issue. In April, the two co-hosted a Laredo roundtable discussion on the subject with business leaders from both sides of the border.
06.21.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $1,704,155,000 in funding for the 2017 fiscal year for Job Corps, a free training program that helps American youth develop job skills, find employment, and graduate high school or earn a GED. Congressman Cuellar successfully increased the funding by $15 million compared to last year. Job Corps, run by the U.S. Department of Labor, is open to low-income youth ages 16-24 with legal status in the United States. It provides technical training, education, counseling, and related assistance as they complete their schooling or find work. The Laredo Job Corps Center is one of four Job Corps locations in Texas, with a capacity of 220. In 2015, 71% of its participants had a full-time job or began military service. 64% of participants had received a GED or high school diploma, and 72.8% had completed career technical training. All those rates are higher than the national average. Congressman Cuellar said: “Job Corps puts young people on the path to the American dream through hard work and education. Not only does it set them up for economic success – it gives them the accomplishment, pride, and purpose that comes from earning a diploma or technical certification, and beginning a meaningful career. In my district, the Laredo Job Corps Center serves hundreds of young people every year who become valued members of our community. That’s why I am a former Co-Chair of the Friend of Job Corps Congressional Caucus, and why I added $15 million in additional funding this year, for a total of $1.7 billion.” The Gary Job Corps Center in San Marcos is the largest Job Corps location in the state. It is operated by the Management & Training Corporation, whose Vice President, Celeste McDonald, said: “We are so grateful to Rep. Cuellar for his relentless support of Job Corps. As the operator of the Gary Job Corps in San Marcos, TX, which has the capacity to train over 1,400 students, we are committed to the success of every student. In the last program year, over 76% of all students earned a primary industry-recognized certification--the greatest predictor of job success. Over 87% of graduates are currently employed in high growth industries. Job Corps works, and so do its graduates!” The provisions are part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2017, which passed the House of Representatives last month and which funds the federal government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year. For more information on Job Corps, call (800) 733-5627. They have recruiting websites in English (https://recruiting.jobcorps.gov/) and Spanish (https://recruiting.jobcorps.gov/Home/Index). Constituents who need assistance with any federal agency or benefit are encouraged to contact Congressman Cuellar by filling out the form on his website www.cuellar.house.gov, or visiting one of his offices in Laredo, Mission, San Antonio, and Rio Grande City.
06.20.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced new measures for the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to more efficiently fight disease and food-borne illnesses, including some border-specific efforts that could save businesses money and avoid wasted food. When a truck carrying produce crosses the border, U.S. Department of Agriculture inspectors or certified Customs & Border Protection (CBP) agriculture inspectors inspect the contents. If they find a bug or something of concern that cannot be identified on-site as non-threatening, the inspector currently has send the bug to the FDA or CDC in Washington, DC for further testing. The truck is either held at the port, or sent on but unable to deliver the produce, until the testing has concluded in DC and the food is determined to be safe. In that time, agriculture shipments can spoil, costing businesses money and wasting food. More laboratory capacity at the border, especially on weekends and holidays, would speed this process. Congressman Cuellar included language in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2017 directing the FDA to work with local governments at high-volume ports of entry, such as Laredo, to reduce the risk of food-borne illnesses. He directed the FDA to report on how pilot programs for public-private laboratory partnerships near high-volume ports of entry might increase capacity, especially on evenings and weekends, could reduce the risk of food-borne illnesses. He also directed the CDC to provide the Appropriations Committee with an update on their cross-border disease control efforts, including how they coordinate their programs with state and local public health departments in high-volume port cities. Congressman Cuellar said: “Our current system of preventing food-borne illness at the border is effective; we implement high standards to protect the American food supply. The imports that pass through our southern border port cities safely feed Americans all over the country. However, it can be inefficient, leading to wasted food and financial losses for our businesses. These directions to the FDA and CDC are to make our efforts even more efficient and effective, support the local health departments in port cities like those in my district, and continue to keep our families healthy and safe.” Dr. Hector Gonzalez, Director of Health for the City of Laredo Health Department, said: “Foodborne disease prevention is a critically important. I appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s efforts to expand capacity and partner with local health authorities for food entry surveillance, enforcement and local laboratory testing to assure the safety of food passing through the US/Mexico Border and especially addressing illegal entry, which impacts not only local communities and local health departments but the nation.” The CDC estimates 48 million people get sick from foodborne illness in the United States each year. However, there is no indication that food products entering the country from the southern border are any more or less likely to carry these illnesses than food produced domestically or entering from other locations. International trade and ports of entry to Mexico are a major part of the economy in Congressman Cuellar’s district. His home town of Laredo has the third biggest port of entry in the country. Food products entering the United States through land ports of entry on the southern border already must meet rigorous health and safety standards. The provisions are part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2017, which passed the House of Representatives last month and which funds the federal government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year.
06.19.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced the National Farmworkers Jobs Program would receive $81,896,000 for the 2017 fiscal year, consistent with 2016 funding. He also pushed the Department of Interior to improve cooperation with state governments on worker protection standards. Congressman Cuellar said: “I protect and support farm workers because agriculture is vital to the economy, in my district and nationwide. My parents were migrant workers when I was a child. It is a tough job, but an important one. These men and women play a critical role in our food supply and food security. They deserve safe, fair conditions, and the opportunity to pursue the full-time work that can sustain their families.” According to Benefits.gov, “The National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) provides job training, employment assistance, and other supportive services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers and their dependents with the goal of helping farmworkers secure full-time employment.” As of the 2012 Census of Agriculture, Congressman Cuellar’s district, Texas 28, had 7,794 farms covering more than 5.14 million acres. California and Texas combined account for more than one third of all farm workers in the United States, according to the Current Population Survey provided by the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 2010, and most of those workers are seasonal. According to The National Agricultural Worker Survey from the U.S. Department of Labor, as of 2014 only 60 percent of crop workers were employed more than 180 days per year and 17 percent were also considered migrant workers, traveling 75 miles or more to find work. The majority are married with children. Access to full-time employment provides more stability and better lives for these families. In addition to the funding for the National Farmworkers Jobs Program, Congressman Cuellar also added language regarding Worker Protection Standards for the U.S. Department of Interior, which protect workers from certain pesticide and chemical hazards on the job. The bill noted that Interior was behind schedule on “providing guidance, educational materials, and training resources” to the States, and should therefore extend some implementation guidelines, as well as consider including more stakeholders in the implementation process. Essentially, the language is making sure the standards that were passed previously, are actually upheld in a responsible and timely manner. The provisions are part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2017, which passed the House of Representatives last month and which funds the federal government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year. Migrant or seasonal farm workers with low or very low income, who have authorization to work in the United States, can call 1-877-872-5627 for more information about the program. Any constituent of Congressman Cuellar who needs assistance accessing federal benefits can contact his district offices through the web form at www.cuellar.house.gov.
06.15.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced significant funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, including a $4 billion discretionary funding increase, in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill for FY 2018. That $4 billion increase is part of a $78.3 billion proposed budget for the agency. It includes $186m for suicide prevention outreach, $7.3 billion for homeless veterans, and $69 billion for medical care. That is enough money to treat approximately seven million patients in fiscal year 2018. More than 35,000 veterans live in Congressman Cuellar’s district. Many of them qualify for some services from the Department of Veterans Affairs, including health care at facilities like Laredo’s Community Based Outpatient Clinic. They and their families are also served by the Laredo Vet Center, the San Antonio Vet Center, and the Rio Grande Valley State Veterans Cemetery. Texas veterans are mostly likely to have served in the Vietnam War era, and are mostly aged 55 and older, though other conflicts and ages are also represented. Nearly 30% of veterans in Texas use some VA health care, and about 20% have a service-connected disability rating. Congressman Cuellar said: “Federal services for veterans are not charity – they are earned. If you served, you have already worked for the health care, burial options, and other benefits that you receive. Now it’s our job to make those benefits high-quality and accessible to you. This $4 billion discretionary funding increase for the Department of Veterans Affairs will help us meet that sacred obligation. As always, my staff in Rio Grande City, Mission, Laredo, and San Antonio are ready to help any veteran constituent in need. Veterans or family members should sign up on my website, www.cuellar.house.gov, to get in contact for assistance.” From the summary of the bill (https://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=394909): VA Medical Care – The bill funds VA medical care at $69 billion – providing for approximately seven million patients to be treated in fiscal year 2018. Within this total, funding includes: $8.4 billion in mental health care services; $186 million in suicide prevention activities; $316 million for traumatic brain injury treatment; $7.3 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training; $751 million for hepatitis C treatment; $50 million for opioid abuse prevention; and $250 million in rural health initiatives. This total also includes full funding of the President’s additional $2.6 billion request to meet higher-than-anticipated medical needs. VA Electronic Health Record – The bill contains $65 million for the modernization of the VA electronic health record system, the same as the President’s request. This will ensure the swift implementation of the plan for the VA to use an identical electronic record system as the DOD. This will also ensure our veterans get proper care, with timely and accurate medical data transferred between the VA, DOD, and the private sector. Disability Claims Processing Backlog – Reducing the disability claims backlog is essential to ensuring adequate compensation and care for the 312,000 veterans still wading through the VA bureaucracy to get a final decision on their claims. The bill will help speed this process and get these veterans the decisions they are awaiting by providing $50 million above the request to be used for digital scanning of health records and overtime pay. In addition, the bill continues rigorous reporting requirements to track each regional office’s performance on claims processing and appeals backlogs. Construction – Major and minor construction within the VA is funded at $753 million. The bill provides the full request for the construction of major medical facilities, and expansion of cemeteries that are reaching capacity before 2022. VA Mandatory Funding – The bill fulfills mandatory funding requirements such as: veteran disability compensation programs for 4.5 million veterans and their survivors; education benefits for one million veterans; and vocational rehabilitation and employment training for more than 145,000 veterans. Advance Appropriations – The bill contains $70.7 billion in advance fiscal year 2019 funding for veterans’ medical programs – the same level as the President’s request. This funding will provide for medical services, medical support and compliance, and medical facilities, and ensure that our veterans have continued, full access to their medical care needs. The bill includes $107.7 billion in advance funding for VA mandatory benefit programs, as requested in the President's budget.
06.13.2017	In a meeting of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of Appropriations this morning, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) questioned John P. Wagner, Deputy Executive Assistant Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), about the Department of Homeland Security’s plan to get the World Trade Bridge in Laredo, Texas back to full capacity. Congressman Cuellar asked: “On Sunday, May 21, 2017, severe weather damaged the World Trade Bridge in my home town of Laredo, Texas significantly disrupting normal cargo and trade operations at the busiest commercial crossing on the U.S.-Mexico border. Typically about 14,000 trucks cross the World Trade Bridge daily. Each day that the World Trade Bridge operates under-capacity due to this damage, it costs producers and businesses revenue and production that results in economic losses that are unacceptable. While this damage to the bridge places a strain on our nation’s trade and creates tough economic realities, it does present an opportunity to upgrade the Port and install state of the art technology and infrastructure in order to meet the trade demands of the 21st century. Mr. Wagner can you please speak to CBPs plans to bring the bridge back up to full capacity and upgrade the POE infrastructure?” Watch the video (1:19:10 – 1:27:25): https://youtu.be/pjDybSnHlWo?t=1h19m10s Mr. Wagner promised to follow up with Congressman Cuellar with additional information on the subject. The questions came during the Subcommittee’s hearing on the ICE/CBP FY18 Budget Request. The other witnesses were Thomas D. Homan, Acting Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and Carla L. Provost, Acting Chief of the United States Border Patrol. Congressman Henry Cuellar (far left) questions witnesses during a June 13, 2017 hearing of the Homeland Security Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee. Congressman Henry Cuellar (far left facing camera) questions Border Patrol Acting Chief Carla Provost (second from left, back to camera) and CBP Deputy Exec. Asst. Commissioner John P. Wagner (far right, back to camera) at a June 13, 2017 hearing.
06.12.2017	After Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) directed them to do so, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has released a report on its search and rescue efforts, including the causes of death of migrants attempting to cross the southwest border. Last month, the House of Representatives passed the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations Act, including requirements from Congressman Cuellar that DHS prepare this report. Congressman Cuellar said: “Crossing our southwestern border is an illegal and dangerous undertaking. We know hundreds of lives are lost each year as people attempt this risky journey. However, we need more information to address this problem. The U.S. Border Patrol, while securing our homeland, also saves many of these migrants’ lives, especially the Border Patrol Search, Trauma, and Rescue Unit (BORSTAR). This report allows us to both acknowledge their current heroic efforts, and begin to identify where and how they can improve. I thank my colleagues, Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard, for working with me on this language and improving Border Patrol’s ability to not only secure our borders, but save lives.” The full report is attached. It found that Border Patrol has more than 246 trained and certified BORSTAR Unit agents, and 1,200 certified Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs). In 2016, the Rio Grande Sector had 1,377 rescues and 130 deaths, while the Laredo Sector had 1,018 rescues and 68 deaths.
06.09.2017	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Christopher Jackson and Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Cameron Bishop to discuss the modernization of NAFTA and the need for America, not China, to lead the world on trade. Congressman Cuellar has already been working with businesses on both sides of the border, as well as the Mexican Ambassador and other government leaders, to improve NAFTA. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR), headed by Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, handles international trade and investment policy, including negotiations for trade agreements. Last month, the USTR formally notified Congress of the Administration’s intent to re-open trade negotiations with our NAFTA partners, Canada and Mexico. Congressman Cuellar said: “Meeting with staff from the USTR yesterday was important, because international trade is critical to the economy of my border district, yet the administration has sent some mixed signals on the subject. We discussed important issues such as border infrastructure, the North American Development Bank, the free flow of legitimate cross border financial transactions, and energy investments. NAFTA has been good for Texas and the nation. Texas’ exports to Mexico have increased more than 300% since the deal went into effect more than 20 years ago and today international trade supports more than 1.5 million Texas jobs – many in border communities like mine. A 21st-century update to this deal is the best outcome for our economy and American jobs. But some administration officials still publicly threaten to eliminate NAFTA – and that uncertainty affects the job-creating businesses in south Texas. Every time the United States takes a step back, China takes two steps forward. American workers deserve access to the global economy. That’s why I supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and why I want to help build NAFTA 2.0. Yesterday I told the USTR leaders that I look forward to working with Ambassador Lighthizer and my congressional colleagues to negotiate trade deals that help our economy and create jobs.” Left to right: Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Christopher Jackson, Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Cameron Bishop and U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). Left to right: Deputy Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Cameron Bishop, U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Congressman Cuellar’s staff member Patrick Malloy. Facing away from camera: Assistant U.S. Trade Representative Christopher Jackson.
06.07.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill he is co-sponsoring to solve the severe staffing shortage faced by Customs and Border Protection. “Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is facing a staffing deficit of more than 3,000 positions,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “That puts our homeland security at risk. One reason for this dangerous shortage: applicants for every single law enforcement position must take a polygraph examination. Even current and former law enforcement and military members with Secret and Top Secret security clearances, must go through this laborious and failure-prone process. The Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017 would streamline the hiring process for certain current ‘cleared’ federal employees, law enforcement, or military members to join CBP after their background check, without having to go through a redundant polygraph. This is a common-sense measure to solve an obvious problem, make a government procedure more efficient, and secure our homeland.” Watch the video of his floor speech: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4672597/anti-border-corruption-reauthorization-act-2017 Congresswoman Martha McSally (AZ-02) introduced the legislation with bipartisan support from Congressman Cuellar. It builds on the work Congressman Cuellar did with Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter. Chairman Carter and Congressman Cuellar included language in the Omnibus Appropriations bill passed earlier this month, directing the Department of Homeland Security to take a number of steps to reevaluate their polygraph and hiring procedures.
06.06.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor announced that the City of San Antonio will receive a $1 million federal investment for fiscal year 2017 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to expand and improve homeland security preparedness in that city. The funds are part of the Urban Area Security Initiative (UASI) and are specifically geared to address the unique planning, organization, training and equipment of urban areas that are at high risk for acts of terrorism. In Texas, only San Antonio, Houston and Dallas received these UASI funds. This year is the first time San Antonio receives these funds since 2014. The UASI program is funded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security section of the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act. Congressman Cuellar serves on the Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee where he has been an advocate for San Antonio. “The Urban Areas Security Initiative has a proven track record for providing first responders the support, training and tools needed to respond to terrorist attacks and other disasters,” said Congressman Cuellar. “San Antonio is the largest city in my district, and a signature city of Texas and the United States. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I believe in keeping our communities safe by providing the federal funding necessary to support the men and women who work tirelessly every day to protect our way of life.” Mayor Taylor added, “Congressman Cuellar and I discussed this type of funding on my SA to DC trip. I am grateful that his hard work resulted in these badly needed funds. The recent event in London highlights the importance of preparedness and I am fortunate to have a strong partner in Congressman Cuellar to make public safety a top priority for San Antonio.” For more information on the UASI program, visit https://www.fema.gov/fiscal-year-2017-homeland-security-grant-program.
06.06.2017	In response to the news that the Department of Veterans Affairs will shift veterans’ medical records to the system used by the Department of Defense, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) said: “I am glad that the Department of Veterans Affairs has taken the next step to streamline the relationship between the military and veteran health care systems. This has been a years-long process of smoothing the transition out of the military, so our servicemembers can more quickly and easily access the VA health care they have earned. By bringing the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs onto the same electronic medical records system, veterans are less likely to slip through the cracks. If any veterans or military family members in my community need assistance with the VA, they should contact my local office in their area. My staff are ready and able to help.” Laredo Office 602 E. Calton Road, Suite 2 Laredo, Texas 78041 phone: (956) 725-0639 fax: (956) 725-2647 Mission Office 117 E. Tom Landry Mission, Texas 78572 phone: (956) 424-3942 fax: (956) 424-3936 Rio Grande City Office 100 N. F.M. 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582 phone: (956) 487-5603 fax: (956) 488-0952 San Antonio Office 615 E. Houston Street, Suite 563 San Antonio, Texas 78205 phone: (210) 271-2851 fax: (210) 277-6671
06.01.2017	Rep. Cuellar: Victoria Glynn victoria.glynn@mail.house.gov Rep. Castro: Erin Hatch Erin.Hatch@mail.house.gov Rep. Doggett: Jaimie Woo Jaimie.Woo@mail.house.gov Rep. Hurd: Rachel Holland Rachel.Holland@mail.house.gov Today, a bipartisan group of 4 members of the San Antonio Congressional delegation, including Congressman Henry Cuellar, Congressman Joaquin Castro, Congressman Lloyd Doggett, and Congressman Will Hurd, announced more than $2 million for City Year San Antonio. The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) awarded City Year San Antonio $1,403,600 for 116 AmeriCorps member positions, and $674,540 for Segal AmeriCorps Education Awards, for a total of $2,078,140 to support existing programs. City Year San Antonio will use the funds to provide academic support to students from 7 San Antonio and 3 Dallas public schools, and to help the AmeriCorps members on their staff to afford post-secondary education, in exchange for their community service. The four members of San Antonio’s Congressional delegation, as well as City Year San Antonio’s Executive Director Kelly Hughes Burton, reacted to the news: Congressman Henry Cuellar: “Education is not only one of the greatest gifts we can give our children – it also benefits the economy and society. Programs like City Year inspire our youth to finish their education and prepare them for the jobs of the future. Because of these grants, the students at seven public schools in San Antonio will have access to the academic support they need to excel. That’s good for them and our entire community here in Texas.” Congressman Joaquin Castro: “Through service, young people not only better our community, they also expand their own horizons and gain personal fulfillment. With these significant AmeriCorps grants, hundreds of San Antonians will have new opportunities to further their education and develop new skills – all while helping their fellow Texans. I’m glad to see these investments being made in our city’s future workers and leaders.” Congressman Will Hurd: “City Year San Antonio plays a tremendous role in the local community by equipping at-risk young people with training and support to complete their education and enter the work force. Their efforts have put many students on track and changed lives, both academically and behaviorally, which is why I’m proud to be a member of the AmeriCorps Caucus in Congress. I am confident this grant funding will only further the organization’s impact in the San Antonio community.” Congressman Lloyd Doggett: “I have seen firsthand the difference these young people are making in our schools. City Year often leads to a lifetime of community service. But President Trump, through his dangerous budget, would terminate this success and similar initiatives across America. To continue serving San Antonio, we must resist.” Kelly Hughes Burton, Executive Director of City Year San Antonio: "We are grateful that Congress approved a fiscal year 2017 omnibus appropriations bill, legislation that invests in AmeriCorps and the Corporation for National and Community Service. Thanks to this support, City Year's 2017-18 AmeriCorps grant was renewed, and this upcoming academic year, we will place 89 AmeriCorps members in seven local schools, providing students with the academic and social-emotional support they need to succeed in school and in life." The AmeriCorps grant of $674,540 is the same as the previous year’s funding level. However, the CNCS award is $52 million lower than last year. President Trump’s proposed budget for the 2018 fiscal year, if adopted, would eliminate the CNCS and AmeriCorps entirely. City Year San Antonio is an education nonprofit that helps students stay in school and on track to graduate from high school, ready for college and career success. Since 1995, they have deployed nearly 1,500 AmeriCorps members to high-need schools in the San Antonio Independent School District to work full-time, providing integrated, evidence-based support to the right students at the right time. Last year, City Year San Antonio provided one-on-one, small group and whole school support to over 6,000 students. Over 90% of teachers in partner City Year San Antonio schools agreed that City Year AmeriCorps members helped improve the overall academic performance of their students. AmeriCorps is a federal government program whose members work in non-profit organizations, serving their communities in exchange for a small stipend and assistance with affording higher education.
05.31.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) is notifying trade stakeholders in his district to participate in the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) by providing input to U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Robert E. Lighthizer. On May 18, the Trade Representative sent Congress a notification letter explaining the Administration’s plans to renegotiate NAFTA with our partners Mexico and Canada. “South Texas is a world competitor for international trade,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Trade is the backbone of our local economies and has allowed us to develop and have a better quality of life for our citizens. Much of this has to do with the initiation of the NAFTA agreement over 20 years ago. The United States has already done most of the work in coming up with a modern trade deal with the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and I believe NAFTA 2.0 can be modeled with this in mind.” The USTR is accepting written input through their Web site until Monday, June 12. A public hearing will also be held at 9:00 a.m. in the Main Hearing Room of the United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, on Tuesday, June 27, 2017. Anyone wishing to testify at the hearing must provide written notification and a summary of his/her testimony by June 12. Attached, please find the USTR’s notification to Congress regarding NAFTA and document comparing the draft letter on NAFTA directly to the details of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
05.26.2017	In honor of Memorial Day, which will be Monday, May 29 this year, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released a video message to constituents. He reminded viewers of the true meaning of the holiday, encouraged them to support the families of fallen troops, and asked veterans struggling with memories of lost friends to reach out for help at the Veterans Crisis Line. The video is available on Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B_nbuqMOwfM In the video, he said, “Many of us have time off to spend with our families and friends. But this is not just a long weekend. Memorial Day is specifically about honoring members of the U.S. military who gave their lives in service of this country. I ask all of my constituents remember the fallen. Look into local and national organizations which support the survivors of those we honor today. And for the veterans in my community: I know this can be a difficult weekend for many of you. You may be missing friends that you have lost. If you’re struggling, please reach out for help. For support, dial 1-800-273-8255 and Press 1.” Surviving family members of deceased service members, as well as veterans, can contact Congressman Cuellar’s district offices for assistance with their U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs benefits: Laredo Office 602 E. Calton Road, Suite 2 Laredo, Texas 78041 phone: (956) 725-0639 fax: (956) 725-2647 Mission Office 117 E. Tom Landry Mission, Texas 78572 phone: (956) 424-3942 fax: (956) 424-3936 Rio Grande City Office 100 N. F.M. 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582 phone: (956) 487-5603 fax: (956) 488-0952 San Antonio Office 615 E. Houston Street, Suite 563 San Antonio, Texas 78205 phone: (210) 271-2851 fax: (210) 277-6671
05.26.2017	On Friday, May 26, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) held a press conference with officials from the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) at the Mission CEED Building, to announce that UTRGV will receive more than $2.7 million this year, and possibly more than $13.9 million over the next five years, to help high school students prepare for college. The funds come from Upward Bound grants from the U.S. Department of Education, as part of the TRIO Program. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for the TRIO Program in the Appropriations Committee to $950 million for the 2017 fiscal year – an increase of $50 million from the fiscal year 2016 budget. Upward Bound grants are designed to help high school students prepare for, gain acceptance to, and afford higher education. They provide weekend tutoring and work on improving high school grade point averages, increasing their test scores, helping with financial aid and scholarship forms, and assisting with the college application process. “Education changes lives, and every child in my district deserves the opportunity to strive for college,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I fought for these funds to give the students in my district at Rio Grande City High School and Mission High School, as well as students throughout South Texas, the resources they need to attend a great institution like UTRGV. I will work in the Appropriations Committee to ensure this funding continues for the full five years, so more students can take advantage of this program.” UTRGV President Guy Bailey said, “As a first-generation college student, I know how important it is to receive instruction and motivation early in life to prepare a student for success. That’s why I am so grateful to all involved in securing these Upward Bound grants that will help UTRGV provide these services to disadvantaged and at-risk students throughout the entire Rio Grande Valley.” The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley (UTRGV) will receive $2,795,904.00 in the first year, beginning September 2017. The program is anticipated to continue for five years, meaning UTRGV will receive a total of $13,979,520.00 Of the first year funds, $257,500 is reserved for students from Rio Grande City High School, $257,500.00 will serve La Grulla High School, and $627,548 is for students from Mission High School and two other local schools.
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announces funding and legislative language to protect clean drinking water in rural areas and colonias in South Texas. The House of Representatives passed the measures as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act earlier this month. “Managing the natural resources that we all have to share is a fundamental role of government,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These common-sense programs protect us from waterborne disease, severe flood damage, and other environment-related harm. I secured this funding so my constituents in colonias and rural areas, and Americans in similar communities all over the country, can have safe drinking water for their families.” Provisions supported by Congressman Cuellar included: · $64 million for Rural Water & Waste Disposal Program grants for Colonias, Native Americans, & Alaskan Native Villages · $1.4 billion for Clean Water State Revolving Funds · $863,233,000 for Drinking Water State Revolving Funds · $10 million for Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account Congressman Cuellar has consistently fought for these types of infrastructure and public health measures on behalf of his constituents. On May 12, 2017, officials in Zapata County, Texas broke ground on a project to improve their aging, over-capacity wastewater treatment plant. The improvements will be funded by a $4.8 million load and a $1.6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Program, which Congressman Cuellar assisted the county with security in 2010. The Omnibus Appropriations Act funds the government for fiscal year 2017. It also included many other key legislative accomplishments for Congressman Cuellar, including support for education, low-income people, Rio Grande Valley citrus growers, and good governance.
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) responded to the independent Congressional Budget Office’s assessment that the American Health Care Act (AHCA), which was passed by the House of Representatives and has been sent to the Senate for consideration, will leave 23 million Americans uninsured. (Assessment can be viewed here: https://www.cbo.gov/publication/52752) He said: “I voted against the AHCA because it was clear it would hurt the people of my district. I represent one of the highest uninsured populations in Congress, especially in our more rural communities. I have been fighting to make sure they can get the care they need and deserve. Instead, according to the Congressional Budget Office this bill will leave 23 million Americans without coverage. We’re going backwards, not forwards. In March, I held a telephone town hall meeting with members of my district, to hear their concerns about health care. One constituent, a breast cancer survivor, shared her story. She is alive today because a cancer screening found a tumor. But the Republican plan will take preventive care like cancer screenings away from many Americans, including some on employer-sponsored plans. She wondered if her neighbors and friends would die from treatable cancers, without access to those life-saving screenings. I hope our Senators hear stories like these, and reject AHCA in its current form. We should be focusing on fixing the problems with our current system, and expanding health care to more folks who need it, instead of cutting it away.”
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that colleges and universities in San Antonio may receive up to $9,046,355 over the next five years to help high school students prepare for higher education, via Upward Bound grants from the U.S. Department of Education. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for this program in the Appropriations Committee. The funds come from Upward Bound grants from the U.S. Department of Education, as part of the TRIO Program. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for the TRIO Program in the Appropriations Committee to $950 million for the 2017 fiscal year – an increase of $50 million from the fiscal year 2016 budget. Upward Bound grants are designed to help high school students prepare for, gain acceptance to, and afford higher education. They provide weekend tutoring and work on improving high school grade point averages, increasing their test scores, helping with financial aid and scholarship forms, and assisting with the college application process. For example, St. Mary’s University of San Antonio, Texas will receive $270,375 targeted specifically to 63 high school students at the Judson and Karen Wagner High Schools in the Judson Independent School District, which are within Congressman Cuellar’s district. The grants are expected to continue for five years in a row, so the college may receive that amount annually for the next five years. “I fought to increase the funding for this program, because I know what a difference Upward Bound grants can make for high school students aspiring to higher education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I know our local colleges and universities will use these funds to give local students in northeast San Antonio the opportunity to succeed. I will work in the Appropriations Committee to ensure that it continues for the full five years, so more students can take advantage of this program.” Thomas M. Mengler, J.D., President of St. Mary’s University, said, “We are grateful to receive this grant, which will enable us to provide outreach to dozens of students from the under-served Judson Independent School District. We take pride in providing opportunities for first-generation and low-income students to pursue higher education and a successful, fulfilling career path.” Cumulatively, Palo Alto College, St. Mary’s University of San Antonio, San Antonio College, and the University of Texas at San Antonio will receive $1,809,271 in the first year of the program, and may receive more than $9 million over the five year period. Other schools throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district will also receive grants from this program.
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that Laredo Community College is eligible to receive up to $2,142,415 over the next five years to help high school students prepare for college, via Upward Bound grants from the U.S. Department of Education. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for this program in the Appropriations Committee. Upward Bound grants are part of the Department of Education’s TRIO Program. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for the TRIO Program in the Appropriations Committee to $950 million for the 2017 fiscal year – an increase of $50 million from the fiscal year 2016 budget. Upward Bound grants are designed to help high school students prepare for, gain acceptance to, and afford higher education. They provide weekend tutoring and work on improving high school grade point averages, increasing their test scores, helping with financial aid and scholarship forms, and assisting with the college application process. Laredo Community College will receive $428,483 in the first year of the program, beginning this fall. The grants are expected to continue for five years, bringing the school a total of $2,142,415 to administer the program to local high school students. “I fought to increase the funding for this program, because I know what a difference Upward Bound grants can make for high school students aspiring to higher education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I know LCC will use these funds to give local students in the Laredo area the opportunity to succeed. I will work in the Appropriations Committee to ensure that it continues for the full five years, so more students can take advantage of this program.” Dr. Ricardo J. Solis, President of Laredo Community College, said, "On behalf of Laredo Community College, I would like to extend my gratitude to Congressman Henry Cuellar for his efforts in securing continued funding for the Upward Bound program. Thanks to the Congressman securing these type of grants for Laredo Community College, countless more Laredo students, many of them first-generation college students, will be able to fulfill their educational goals, and Laredo Community College will be able to provide the educational resources to lead them on their path to academic success." Other schools throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district, including the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley and Palo Alto College, will also receive grants from this program. Congressman Cuellar plans to hold a press conference on the subject in Laredo at a later date, to be announced.
05.25.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced Atascosa high school students are eligible to receive up to $1,583,745 for college readiness program over the next five years from the U.S. Department of Education. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for this program in the Appropriations Committee. The funds come from Upward Bound grants from the U.S. Department of Education, as part of the TRIO Program. Congressman Cuellar helped increase the funding for the TRIO Program in the Appropriations Committee to $950 million for the 2017 fiscal year – an increase of $50 million from the fiscal year 2016 budget. Upward Bound grants are designed to help high school students prepare for, gain acceptance to, and afford higher education. They provide weekend tutoring and work on improving high school grade point averages, increasing their test scores, helping with financial aid and scholarship forms, and assisting with the college application process. For example, in the first year of the program, Palo Alto College will receive $316,749 targeted specifically to serve 77 high school students at schools in Lytle, Jourdanton, Poteet, and Pleasanton, which are located in Congressman Cuellar’s district. The grants are expected to continue for five years in a row, so the college may receive that amount annually for the next five years, for a cumulative $1,583,745. “I fought to increase the funding for this program, because I know what a difference Upward Bound grants can make for high school students aspiring to higher education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I know our local colleges and universities will use these funds to give local students in Lytle, Jourdanton, Poteet, and Pleasanton the opportunity to succeed., I will work in the Appropriations Committee to ensure that it continues for the full five years, so more students can take advantage of this program.” Dr. Michael Flores, President of Palo Alto College, said, “Palo Alto College has a long-standing tradition of providing access to higher education through our various TRIO programs, dual credit, and early college high school partnerships,” said Dr. Mike Flores, president of Palo Alto College. “We are incredibly grateful to Congressman Cuellar for his support in funding the Upward Bound program, as the grant will further extend our ability to continue providing much-needed services for traditionally underserved students in our community.” Other schools throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district will also receive grants from this program.
05.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) was joined by Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas Nathan Hecht in expressing concern at President Trump’s proposed elimination of the non-profit Legal Services Corporation today. The Legal Services Corporation (LSC) is an independent, non-profit established by Congress to provide low-income Americans with legal aid in civil matters. They provide funding to more than 100 legal aid organizations in communities across the United States, including three in Texas. President Trump’s budget proposal would give LSC – which was funded at $384 million in the 2017 fiscal year – only $33 million for the 2018 fiscal year, a token amount just enough for the organization to shut itself down. “Our nation was founded on the principle of ‘justice for all,’” explain Congressman Cuellar. “The Legal Services Corporation helps us live up to that standard, providing essential legal services to poor and low-income Americans. I saw that firsthand when I was a law student interning for LSC. Their grantees help victims of domestic violence get restraining orders, homeless veterans get the benefits they have earned, and vulnerable seniors protect themselves from financial scams. President Trump wants to eliminate these programs in every state, including Texas. That means only those who can afford to hire a private attorney will be able to access our legal system. As an attorney myself, I know: that is not justice. I hope all my colleagues in Congress join me in defending the LSC.” Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas Nathan Hecht said, “The support provided by the Legal Services Corporation to legal service providers throughout the country is the backbone for efforts to assure access to justice for the poor and vulnerable among us. Justice for only those who can afford it is neither justice for all nor justice at all.”
05.23.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) responds to the President’s budget proposal: “This budget has big gifts for the rich, big cuts for the poor. The American people have made themselves clear. They want responsible, efficient government spending, with smart investments in programs that work. Instead, the President has proposed a bizarre, ideological budget. His reckless cuts would cut thriving, successful programs to pay for tax cuts for millionaires – instead of the small businesses that really need them. He wants to slash the basic programs that keep Texas drinking water clean, stop diseases from spreading, and care for vulnerable seniors. Of the areas with the greatest percentage of residents on food stamps, 7 out of 10 voted for President Trump, hoping he would help them achieve a better life. Yet instead of investing in economic opportunities, he is threatening to make even less food available to our poorest families – including his voters. Fortunately, the President does not control the federal budget. Congress does. I work with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to craft a reasonable, bipartisan budget that serves all Americans, encourages job creation, and protects veterans and seniors.”
05.22.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and his staff met with law enforcement across Texas Congressional District 28 during National Police Week to discuss local issues and honor their service. “Every day, our law enforcement professionals work hard to keep our local communities and nation safe from crime and terrorism,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My staff and I met with law enforcement and families of fallen officers across my district and in Washington to honor their great service and sacrifice. I will continue to fight to protect officers and make sure they have adequate funding and resources to continue their tireless and honorable work to protect us.” Outreach Coordinator Pete Arguello presents a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to Chief Al Ballew and Windcrest Police Department as well as the family of fallen Windcrest Police Office Joseph Partee Marshall (End of Watch: Jan. 26, 1982). Also recognized was fallen Windcrest Lieutenant John Paul Frisco (End of Watch: Dec. 13, 1985). Outreach Coordinator Pete Arguello presents a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to Live Oak Police Chief Dan Pue and Selma Police Chief David Padula and their respective departments in honor of National Police Week at the Live Oak City Hall on May 17. Outreach Coordinator Nichole Hernandez, pictured second from right, meets with Rio Grande City Acting Chief Border Patrol Agent Michael Lata, pictured center, on May 18 to discuss community partnerships, outreach strategies and pressing issues in Starr County. From left to right: Agent Danny Rios, Starr County Public Relations Dir. Cynthia Fuentes, Acting Chief Patrol Agent Michael Lata, Nichole Hernandez and Agent Adriana Palacios. Outreach Coordinator Gilbert Lafuente, pictured third from left, presents a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to Chief Fidel Villegas and fellow officers of the Converse Police Department on May 18 in honor of National Police Week. From left to right: Sgt. Shook, Captain Pam Hunt, Gilbert Lafuente, Police Chief Fidel Villegas, Detective Jason Kilwy and Officer Nathan Perritano. Outreach Coordinator Gilbert Lafuente meets with Chief Deputy Lewis Lem for the McMullen County Sheriff’s Department on May 16 to discuss homeland security and equipment for the department. Outreach Coordinator Nichole Hernandez meets with Hidalgo County Sheriff Eddie Guerra and Hidalgo County Commissioner Joseph Palacios on May 16 to discuss federal resources for law enforcement during the 2017 Hidalgo County Fallen Heroes Ceremony. The Office of Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) participates in the City of Mission Peace Officers Memorial on May 15. Outreach Coordinator Francis Atwell for Webb, Zapata and La Salle Counties, meets with law enforcement and students from United High School during the Laredo Police Week Student Expo on May 18. Also pictured are officers from U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Webb County Sheriff's Office, and the Laredo Police Department. In Washington, Congressman Cuellar met with the family of slain San Antonio police detective Benjamin Marconi, whose name was added to the National Law Enforcement Officer Memorial on Thursday. He also voted for H.R. 115, The Thin Blue Line Act, which would add the killing of a non-federal law enforcement officer or first responder as an aggravating factor in determining a death penalty sentence in a federal Capital case. The bill passed the House and will now be sent to the Senate for review. Lastly, Congressman Cuellar recently announced more than $834 million in support for our law enforcement professionals, including for programs to reduce violence against police and help them survive dangerous encounters with suspects. Diana and Tom Marconi, sister-in-law and brother of slain officer Benjamin Marconi, visit Congressman Cuellar's Washington office on May 17. Detective Marconi's name on the wall of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C.
05.22.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announces funding and legislative language to protect clean drinking water and support other environmental efforts in South Texas. For example, he secured $14.5 million for the Rio Grande Flood Control System Rehabilitation Project, a $3.5 million increase from the previous year’s funding, for levee projects along the Rio Grande. The House of Representatives passed the measures as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act earlier this month. “Managing the natural resources that we all have to share is a fundamental role of government,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These common-sense programs protect us from waterborne disease, severe flood damage, and other environment-related harm. I secured this funding so my constituents, and Americans all over the country, can have safe communities and drinking water for their families.” Other environmental provisions supported by Congressman Cuellar included: · $64 million for Rural Water & Waste Disposal Program grants for Colonias, Native Americans, & Alaskan Native Villages · $1.4 billion for Clean Water State Revolving Funds · $863,233,000 for Drinking Water State Revolving Funds · $10 million for water and wastewater facilities in US-Mexico Border · $10,000,000 for Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Program Account · Language encouraging the Department of Energy to examine activities within midstream natural gas infrastructure research and development that curtail methane gas emissions in shale formations. The Omnibus Appropriations Act funds the government for fiscal year 2017. It also included many other key legislative accomplishments for Congressman Cuellar, including support for education, low-income people, Rio Grande Valley citrus growers, and good governance.
05.19.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Library of Congress (LoC) has made 25 million items – including books, songs, manuscripts, maps, images, and more – available online for free downloads at http://www.loc.gov/cds/products/marcDist.php. Previously, accessing these materials required a paid subscription. “I hope educators, librarians, students, and parents throughout my district take advantage of this exciting new resource,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am passionate about education because I have experienced firsthand that it can change your life. That’s why I regularly distribute free books to libraries throughout my district, and why I secure funding for our local schools. With more than 25 million books, songs, images, and more now available online, even more of my constituents will have the opportunity to access Library of Congress materials.” Congressman Cuellar, a tireless advocate for education, has consistently worked to increase public access to books and educational materials. He regularly collects the Library of Congress’ surplus books and distributes them for free to local libraries throughout Texas’ 28th district. For example, in April he provided more than 165 books to the new El Cenizo Library, which opened on May 11, and in May he gave 75 books to the Roma Public Library. The Office of Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) delivers more than 165 books to the soon-to-open El Cenizo Library in El Cenizo on Tuesday April 25, 2017. Pictured from left to right are El Cenizo Administrator Dayra Ramos, El Cenizo Mayor Raul Reyes and Outreach Coordinator Francis Atwell. Rep. Cuellar’s Outreach coordinator for Starr and Hidalgo Counties, Nichole Hernandez, pictured right, delivered 75 books of various grade levels and topics on May 9, 2017 to Elimar Cantu, head librarian for the Roma Public Library.
05.18.2017	Today, as part of National Police Week 2017, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced more than $834 million in support for our law enforcement professionals, including for programs to reduce violence against police and help them survive dangerous encounters with suspects. He also honored slain police detective Benjamin Marconi, whose family was in Washington yesterday to see his name added to a memorial for fallen officers. National Police Week, which runs May 14 through May 20 this year, is an annual event recognizing the service of police officers. Tens of thousands of officers come to Washington for ceremonies. This year, Congressman Cuellar’s staff honored Detective Benjamin Marconi of the San Antonio Police Department, a Floresville resident who was killed in the line of duty last year. This week, his name was added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. While in town for the ceremony, his family joined Congressman Cuellar’s staff for a tour of the U.S. Capitol. Detective Marconi's name on the wall of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial. “National Police Week is an opportunity to honor the service of the law enforcement professionals who keep our communities safe every day, and to remember the sacrifice of heroes like Detective Benjamin Marconi,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I helped secure these provisions, including more than eight hundred million dollars in funding, to support our police and improve security for everyone. I am especially proud to support funding for the VALOR Initiative, which helps prevent violence against law enforcement officers through research, resources, and training. They protect us, so I will do whatever I can to protect them.” Among his provisions, Congressman Cuellar backed $7.5 million for the VALOR Initiative, which helps prevent violence against law enforcement officers and ensure officer resilience and survivability following violent encounters during the course of their duties. It consists of research into the scenarios that lead to law enforcement injury or fatalities; and training, technical assistance, and resources to help officers survive those scenarios, including Active-Shooter training. Other pro-law enforcement measures support by Congressman Cuellar include: $210,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program, which reimburses state and local law enforcement for the cost of holding undocumented persons convicted of crimes prior to their transfer to federal custody; $403,000,000 for Byrne Justice Assistance Grants (JAG), which provide states, tribes, and local governments with critical funding necessary to support a range of program areas including law enforcement, prosecution, indigent defense, courts, crime prevention and education, corrections and community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, planning, evaluation, technology improvement, and crime victim and witness initiatives; $221,500,000 for Community Oriented Policing Services (a $9.5 million increase from the 2016 fiscal year funding), which helps build trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve to improve security for everyone; Language to improve cost effectiveness and conditions in our prison systems, by reducing crowding in medium- and high-security institutions; and Language instructing the Department of Homeland Security to avoid over-burdening state police crime labs with federal matters, by providing assistance including federal funding when appropriate. Diana and Tom Marconi, sister-in-law and brother of slain officer Benjamin Marconi, visit Congressman Cuellar's Washington office. The funding and language are part of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which funds the federal government for the rest of the 2017 fiscal year and which passed earlier this month.
05.18.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) responds to the notification (attached) from the Trump administration that they intend to open trade negotiations with Canada and Mexico: “Today, the administration indicated their intent to open North American trade negotiations. I am glad to see they finally agree with me that the best path forward is to update NAFTA, not dismantle it. NAFTA has been a big success for Texas and the entire United States. Trade from NAFTA supports more than 1.5 million Texas jobs. I hope the administration plans to negotiate in good faith with our friends Canada and Mexico. We have an opportunity to bring the deal into the 21st century by looking at the work we did for the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement. Throughout my time in Congress, I have been listening to business leaders and entrepreneurs on both sides of the border. I meet with the officials that manage our ports of entry, like in my home town of Laredo, to learn their needs and concerns. I have worked across the aisle with Republican colleagues like Senator John Cornyn and Congressman Kevin Brady, to defend NAFTA and prepare for a renegotiation. If the Trump administration is sincere, I am more than ready to roll up my sleeves and work with them, to forge a deal that boosts American jobs.”
05.18.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that State of Texas has received $15,639,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program to help local communities in Texas recover from severe flooding. Among the counties that will receive funding are Hidalgo, Harris, Hays, and Travis Counties. These flexible grants help cities, counties, and States recover from presidentially-declared disasters, especially in low-income areas. In Texas, the Texas General Land Office (GLO) is the lead state agency that receives and administers the Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program and works with eligible counties, including Hidalgo, to allocate disaster funding. With this new allocation the State of Texas has received a total of 66 million to support recovery from major disasters in that occurred in 2015. As part of his work on the House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar has vigorously defended HUD’s Community Development Block Grant program, which the Trump Administration has threaten to defund according to the President’s 2018 federal budget request that laid out huge cuts to federal agencies and programs to pay for a border wall with Mexico. These funds were successfully included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017, which included $400 million to support recovery from major disasters in 2015 and 2016. “Programs like the Community Development Block Grant help many communities in my district provide decent housing, a suitable living environment, disaster recovery and resources to expand economic opportunities, principally for low and moderate-income persons,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Hidalgo County can use these funds to help pay for recovery from the severe flooding we experienced last year. I’d like to thank Judge Ramon Garcia and the Commissioners Court for their hard work and cooperation. I will continue to secure funding for my district and my constituents to address local challenges.”
05.16.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the passage of bipartisan measures to help American employers hire enough temporary guest workers to keep their businesses going. The measures were part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, a bill to fund the federal government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year, which passed earlier this month. In his role on the Homeland Security subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, he co-sponsored a bipartisan amendment with Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD) to allow the Secretary of Homeland Security to create exemptions to the 66,000 cap on H-2B visas for foreign people temporarily entering the United States to work. “I co-sponsored this legislation because I listened to the needs of American small businesses,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “The cap of 66,000 H-2B visas is arbitrary; it does not always reflect our labor needs. Workers who use this program are not trying to immigrate, but simply to work hard. They pay into our tax system and help our economy. Employers, including many in Texas, rely on these workers to fill temporary jobs that locals don’t want. Allowing the Secretary to make exemptions to the cap will make sure those businesses have access to a steady flow of experienced, trusted workers.” The H-2B visa guest worker program is used primarily by American small businesses to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work in the United States in non-agricultural industries such as landscaping, independent hotels and resorts, and theme parks, which struggle to find Americans willing to take their temporary jobs. Contrary to popular belief, guest workers pay all applicable taxes, including Social Security, Medicare, and sales tax for any purchases they make, yet they do not collect benefits in return. The law guarantees American workers the first chance at every job. When there are not enough American workers to fill demand, those jobs are later filled by H-2B temporary workers. Even then, demand for workers is even greater than what is allowed by the current 66,000 visa cap. Congressman Cuellar designed the exemption to ease some of that burden.
05.15.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar announced millions of dollars in funding for colleges and universities that serve Hispanic student populations, as well as language to promote opportunities for Hispanic students to partner with or work for federal agencies. The language and funding were part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, which funds the government for the rest of the 2017 fiscal year, and which passed the House of Representatives earlier this month. There are more than a dozen Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) in or near Congressman Cuellar’s district, including Laredo Community College, South Texas College, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, University of the Incarnate Word, and Texas A&M International University. “I know firsthand the transformative power of education,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I experienced it in my own life. I also see it every day in my district, as we have more than a dozen Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) serving our area. These schools produce top-notch academic talent, prepared for a 21st-century workforce. Our accomplishments today ensure that federal agencies do not miss out on this valuable population in research, partnerships, and hiring – and that these important institutions have the funds they need to continue to succeed.” The funding included $15 million for the National Science Foundation (NSF) to develop a program focused on HSIs. The program was authorized by Congress in 2007, and finally received the necessary funding this year thanks to Congressman Cuellar’s dogged advocacy. His language also ensured that HSIs and Historically Black Colleges and Universities will be represented in NSF’s cybersecurity research. Other provisions Congressman Cuellar fought for to assist Hispanic students pursuing higher education include: · $9,219,000 in education grants for HSIs, and added language directing the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to partner with HSIs on biotechnology programs. · Language to ensure HSIs are represented in NASA’s STEM Education and Accountability Programs (SEAP). · $33.6 million for the Historically-Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions Program. Cuellar also added language to encourage partnerships with HSIs within the National Security Education Program to ensure diversity within the Intelligence Community and to increase the number of analysts with proficiency in critical languages and critical studies, as well as improve science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) participation and opportunities for underrepresented minorities. · $19 million for the Minority-Service Institution Partnerships Program, including funding for the Tribal College Initiative. Cuellar also added language that encourages the Department of Energy’s National Laboratories and the National Nuclear Security Administration to continue developing partnerships with HSIs. · Language to speed up the hiring process within the federal government for qualified employees, while focusing on recruiting talent for federal agencies from HSIs. · $950 million for Federal TRIO Programs, which is $50 million more than the 2016 level. The TRIO programs are federal outreach and student services programs designed to help individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds progress through their academic careers from middle school to post baccalaureate programs. TRIO programs primarily serve low-income, first-generation college students, as well as students with disabilities, veterans, homeless youth, foster youth, and individuals underrepresented in graduate education. · San Antonio College, Texas A&M International University, Laredo Community College, St. Mary's University, University of Texas San Antonio, Alamo Colleges, University of the Incarnate Word, University Of Texas Rio Grande Valley, South Texas College, and Coastal Bend College have all received funding from the TRIO programs. · $340 million for Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), which is $17 million more than the 2016 enacted level. GEAR up is designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. GEAR UP provides six-year grants to states and partnerships to provide services at high-poverty middle and high schools. GEAR UP grantees serve an entire cohort of students beginning no later than the seventh grade and follow the cohort through high school. GEAR UP funds are also used to provide college scholarships to low-income students. · Texas A&M International University has used GEAR UP funds to prepare over 8,000 students, in 19 school districts throughout South Texas covering approximately 14,792 square miles. · $108 million for the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program. · $9.7 million for the Promoting Post Baccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Program. · $45 million for the High School Equivalency Program (HEP) and the College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP). · Language encouraging the U.S. Department of Transportation to partner with HSIs for research on minority-owned businesses. Today’s announcement follows news from Congressman Cuellar last week about expansions of the Pell Grant program. In a press release, he shared that the maximum award for the grants will be increased, and that students will now be able to apply the grant to summer classes. At that time, President of Texas A&M International University Dr. Pablo Arenaz, who leads Congressman Cuellar’s alma mater, an HSI located in the 28th district, said: “At Texas A&M International University, Cong. Cuellar’s advocacy of lowered loan interest for students on financial aid, and increased investment in STEM fields for under-represented women and minorities, especially Hispanics, has significantly accelerated students’ degree pursuit and career success. His yearly hosting of STEM Alliance events on our campus have become magnets for student engagement. As the most degreed member in Congress, his advocacy is clearly rooted in his personal experience, which inspires our students daily. As a champion of higher education in our Congress, he has few equals. We applaud his advocacy for Hispanic-serving Institutions and his commitment to ensuring adequate funding for the programs at these Institutions that change lives. ” The Omnibus Appropriations Act also included many other key legislative accomplishments for Congressman Cuellar, including support for the environment, citrus growers in the Rio Grande Valley, low-income people, and good governance.
05.12.2017	Today, staff from the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar marked the groundbreaking of a project to improve the wastewater treatment plant in Zapata, funded by grants he helped secure for the county government. The Congressional staff joined County Judge Joe Rathmell, and County Commissioners Norberto Garza, Eddie Martinez, Paco Mendoza, and Olga Elizondo, as Premier Engineering General Manager Manuel Gonzalez ceremonially broke ground on the new Zapata County Waterworks Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements Project. The project is funded by a $4.8 million loan and a $1.6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Utilities program, which Congressman Cuellar assisted Zapata County with securing in in 2010. The county is currently working with USA to secure additional funding for the project, which has an estimated total cost of $11,254,635. To mark the occasion, Francis Atwell, Outreach Coordinator for Congressman Cuellar, presented a certificate of recognition to the county officials and Premier Engineering staff. The ceremony followed a pre-construction meeting among key personnel and stakeholders, to discuss the logistics, timeline, and other details of the project. “The project will double the capacity of the Zapata County Wastewater Treatment Plant, which will ensure all wastewater is treated properly before being introduced back into the environment. That is essential for the health and safety of my constituents in Zapata County,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “I fought for these funds because improving this plant will help safeguard the health of our community here. I’d like to thank County Judge Joe Rathmell, all the Commissioners, and the USDA for working together on this important issue.” Francis Atwell, Outreach Coordinator for Congressman Henry Cuellar, presents a certificate of recognition to Zapata County officials at the groundbreaking of the improvement project for the wastewater plant. Left to right: Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell; Francis Atwell; Zapata County Commissioners Norberto Garza, Eddie Martinez, and Paco Mendoza. “Having safe and reliable water and waste disposal services is vital to the health of rural communities,” said Daniel Torres, USDA Rural Development Texas Acting State Director. “Rural Development is pleased to be a part of this groundbreaking, to improve wastewater services for Zapata County.” The current plant is decades old, and badly in need of upgrades. It is operating at about 98% of its capacity – an unsustainable level, well above the 90% maximum recommended – and is struggling to meet the standards of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Its two existing oxidation ditches, which are part of the wastewater treatment process, have major structural damage. Other key plant equipment cannot be operated safely and needs total replacement. The major improvement project will double the capacity of the plant from .8 MGD (millions of gallons per day), to 1.6 MGD. It will replace or add necessary equipment so the plant is capable of meeting environmental and health standards. The planned improvements include the construction of: 1 new Headworks Facility 1 new Carrousel Basin 2 new Secondary Clarifiers 1 new Clarifier Splitter Box 1 new RAS/WAS Pump Station 1 new Cloth Media Filter Basin 1 new Chlorine Contact/Dechlorination Basin 1 new Chlorination/Dechlorination System with Fiberglass Shelter 1 new Electrical Building; and 1 new Administration/Laboratory Building. Zapata County Commissioners Norberto Garza, Eddie Martinez, Paco Mendoza, and Olga Elizondo join Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell, Congressman Henry Cuellar's Outreach Coordinator Francis Atwell, and Premier Engineering General Manager Manuel Gonzalez for a ceremonial groundbreaking of the Zapata County Waterworks Treatment Plant Improvements Project.
05.11.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced Melissa Garcia, a sophomore at Roma High School in Roma, Texas, as the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for Texas’ 28th District. “I congratulate Melissa on her colorful and elaborate artwork,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The American spirit resonates through her interpretation of the unity and friendship between our two countries. This year we had many great entries and hers stood out the most. Again, I congratulate Melissa on her talented piece, as well as her parents and educators and Roma High School.” The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete for the chance to have their work displayed in the United States Capitol Building. Each member of Congress has the opportunity to host a local competition amongst high school students in his/her district and select the winning entry. This year, a total of 58 art pieces were submitted from across the 28th District of Texas. Melissa’s winning entry is a color pencil drawing on poster board entitled "Acceptance Within," which depicts two cultures coming together and signifies the acceptance of herself as a young Mexican-American woman on the Texas-Mexico border. The winning art piece, entitled “Acceptance Within,” by Melissa Garcia of Roma High School. Congressman Cuellar has announced that Roma High School sophomore, Melissa Garcia, third from left, has won the Congressional Art Competition for the 28th Congressional District of Texas. Her piece, entitled "Acceptance Within" depicts two cultures coming together and signifies the acceptance of herself as a young Mexican-American woman on the Texas-Mexico border. Pictured from left to right are Outreach Coordinator for the Office of Congressman Cuellar, Nichole Hernandez; Roma High School Art Teacher Gabriela Gonzalez; Roma High School Sophomore Melissa Garcia; and Roma High School Principal Marissa Belmonte. “The drawing represents acceptance within oneself,” Melissa said. “Since I’m Mexican-American, I chose to incorporate elements of the United States and Mexico to represent that I accept who I am. Melissa says that the piece displays a handshake from two people of different races, with both the Mexican and American flags representing the fabric of who they are. Towards the top of the drawing is a woman dancing ballet folkórico, or traditional cultural dances of Mexico, while there’s a family celebrating the 4th of July with fireworks towards the bottom. To the right is a baby girl, and at the center of the drawing is a clock that signifies the movement of time that is followed by a grown woman on the left. “Time goes by as you grow up and you accept yourself,” Melissa added. There are also architectural elements in the piece, such as the Washington Monument and a Spanish colonial church. As the winner of the art competition, Melissa is invited to fly to Washington, D.C., next month, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, where she will attend a reception and ribbon-cutting ceremony with her family and Congressman Cuellar on Thursday, June 29, where her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. She also will have the opportunity to meet students from other parts of the country and spend time with Congressman Cuellar and tour the nation’s capital. "Melissa is exceptionally talented and it is clear she has a very bright future in front of her," said Roma ISD Superintendent Carlos Guzman. "We congratulate her on this milestone and look forward to seeing her continue to grow in her skills as a student and artist here at Roma High; and we will continue to support her artistic endeavors as we continue to shine the light on our awesome RHS Art Program. We also thank Congressman Cuellar and his staff for supporting young artists and encouraging them to pursue their dreams. Melissa will always look back on this experience as a defining moment and perhaps this opportunity will afford her exposure and networking that will lead to even greater prospects. This is indeed a very proud day for us in the Gladiator Nation!" First launched in 1982, this year marks the 35th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, close to 700,000 high school students have participated in the program.
05.11.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that he is making government spending more transparent to the American people, by directing that all unclassified vendor contracts and grant awards from federal agencies be posted publicly on USAspending.gov. “I directed these changes to increase transparency, good governance, and smart spending,” explain Congressman Cuellar. “This money belongs to the American people – it’s trillions of their tax dollars – and they deserve to know exactly it is being spent. These online tools will help them hold their government accountable.” The federal government distributes billions of taxpayer dollars each year to state and local governments in the form of grants. Those state and local governments, in turn, distribute funds to organizations or companies (vendors) for projects in their communities. For example, every county in Congressman Cuellar’s district – Webb, Zapata, Starr, Hidalgo, McMullen, Atascosa, La Salle, Wilson, and Bexar – has received some federal grant funding in the last five years. That money does a lot of good, helping with everything from educational programs to infrastructure projects. However, until now, tracking where all those billions of dollars end up has been challenging and complicated – especially if they were distributed in smaller amounts. The Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 (FFATA) originally created USAspending.gov to display spending of more than $25,000. The Department of Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service administers the website. Thanks to Congressman Cuellar as well as the DATA Act, they will now address some inconsistencies in reporting and display all grants. Last week, the House of Representatives passed the Omnibus Appropriations Act, a bipartisan bill developed by the Appropriations Committee, where Congressmen Cuellar serves. The bill will fund the federal government for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year. Congressman Cuellar’s new government transparency measures were part of this Omnibus legislation. This week, the Fiscal Service announced Beta.USAspending.gov, a new version of the site that will provide taxpayers with even greater detail about nearly $4 trillion in federal spending. Congressman Cuellar is Co-Chair of the Blue Dog Democrats, a coalition of fiscally conservative Democrats committed to the financial stability of the United States. Throughout his time in Congress, especially in his role on the Appropriations Committee, he has been a fierce proponent of good governance and transparency in federal spending.
05.09.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Omnibus Appropriations Act passed by the House last week included funding and language to support international trade and relations between the United States and Mexico. For example, Congressman Cuellar supported efforts to streamline commerce at land ports of entry by directing the federal agencies involved to improve their staffing models, and encouraged early steps to explore a rail line between the U.S. and Mexico via Texas. “Mexico is an important friend to the United States. We get tremendous benefits from our collaboration with that nation on security, commerce, and culture,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “In Texas in particular, our economy is driven by international trade, which supports 1.5 million jobs in the state. These common-sense measures to streamline trade and general relations with our southern neighbor will benefit businesses and communities throughout the country.” Highlights of provisions he included in the Omnibus, related to U.S.-Mexico relations include: · Directing USDA, FDA, and CBP to improve their staffing models at land ports of entry, to streamline commerce at those locations; · Directing the Secretary of Agriculture to develop a U.S.-Mexico working group to find ways to improve the flow of international commerce; · Increasing U.S.-Mexico academic exchanges for high school, college, and post-graduate students through the Department of State; and · Directing the Department of Transportation to study what standards and protocols are needed for a passenger and freight rail line between the U.S. and Mexico via Texas. In addition, he helped secure the following appropriations: · $18,000,000 for State Trade & Export Promotion; · $90,000,000 for Mexico via International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement; · $49,004,000 for Mexico via the Economic Support Fund which is an increase of $10 million above FY16 for programs to support justice reform, promote good governance, protect human rights, implement crime and violence prevention programs, and facilitate United States-Mexico trade and investment; · $5 million for Foreign Military Financing; and · $1.5 million for International Military Education and Training. He was also successful in working with former State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chair Kay Granger to secure $655 million for the United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America in support of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle of Central America. This funding will help support civil society reforms in Central America, as well as fight the causes of violence which have forced people to make the dangerous journey to our Southern U.S. Border. These provisions were part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act to fund the government for fiscal year 2017, which passed the House of Representatives last week. The bill also included many other key legislative priorities for Congressman Cuellar, including support for education, clean drinking water, Rio Grande Valley citrus growers, and good governance. Congressman Cuellar represents 280 miles of U.S.-Mexico border.
05.09.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced an additional $3.7 million in U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) funding to fight cattle fever ticks in areas like Starr, Zapata, and Webb Counties. This is in addition to the $8.5 million already allocated for fiscal year 2017, bringing the total to $12.2 million. “Cattle producers are an important part of our economy, and our way of life, here in Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With their hard work, they feed America and the world, so controlling cattle fever ticks is a priority. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, it is my job to make sure the USDA has the funding to protect this industry and our food supply. That is why I have consistently fought for significant funding for the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) Cattle Health program, which received $91.5 million in the Fiscal Year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act. This program helps improve the quality, productivity, and economic viability of the U.S. cattle industry.” He continued, “I would like to thank the Texas Farm Bureau, the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, the Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association, and the South Texans’ Property Rights Association for their advocacy on this issue. I also thank my colleagues Rep. Filemon Vela and Rep. Vicente Gonzalez, as well as House Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sanford Bishop for their support on this issue.” Susan Kibbe, the Executive Director of the South Texans’ Property Rights Association (STPRA), said, “South Texans’ Property Rights Association (STPRA) applauds Congressman Cuellar’s quick response in securing additional funding to help fight cattle fever tick in the recent outbreaks in Starr, Zapata, and Webb Counties. He has risen as a strong leader for South Texans and one on whom we can rely when we ask for help on landowner issues. We’d also like to thank Congressmen Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez for their support on this very important landowner issue.” The U.S. cattle industry is valued at roughly $81 billion. Cattle fever ticks carry microscopic parasites that cause anemia, fever, enlargement of the spleen and liver, and often death for up to 90 percent of infected cattle. Along the Rio Grande, there is a Permanent Cattle Fever Tick Quarantine Zone, an area that spans eight Texas counties on the border and over a half million acres stretching from the Gulf of Mexico near Brownsville to Amistad Dam north of Del Rio, intended to prevent the spread of the often deadly tick-borne disease. However, infestations have been reported elsewhere in Central and South Texas as well. Fighting these ticks has been an ongoing effort. In 2008 Congressman Cuellar included language in the Farm Bill for the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program which provided research grants to study cattle fever ticks and their eradication. These additional funds are a good step in helping control the tick population and stop the spread of their disease.
05.08.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Omnibus Appropriations Bill passed by the House of Representatives last week contains many of his provisions to fight poverty, house homeless veterans on the border, and support residents of rural areas and colonias. The legislation funds the government for the rest of the 2017 fiscal year. “There are communities in my district where hard-working families struggle to make ends meet, including some rural areas and colonias.” said Congressman Cuellar. “Despite the challenges of poverty, these communities produce amazing people who just need a fair shot to fulfill their potential. This legislation will make sure federal resources are targeted in the right way, so all of my constituents have more opportunities to succeed.” The poverty-fighting provisions that Congressman Cuellar fought to get into the Omnibus bill include: · More than $947 million through Rep. Cuellar’s “10-20-30” program: Language directing some Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Department of Interior grant to prioritize and set aside at least 10 percent of federal funding through specific programs for counties where 20 percent or more of the population has lived in poverty over the past 30 years (“persistent poverty areas”). Webb, Zapata, Starr, Hidalgo, and La Salle counties meet this definition in the 28th Congressional District; · Language directing the Department of Agriculture to focus its StrikeForce Initiatives on persistent poverty counties; “StrikeForce Initiative.-The Committee appreciates the Department’s efforts to target assistance to at-risk communities through the StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity. USDA, in collaboration with public and private partners, helps rural counties experiencing chronic poverty improve economic opportunities and quality of life for local residents. The Committee encourages USDA to place special emphasis on persistent poverty counties and continue to utilize a strategy of partnering public resources with local expertise to grow rural economies and create jobs in these poverty-stricken areas.” · $64 million for Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program grants for Colonias, Native Americans, and Alaskan Native Villages; · $47 million for Rural Community Facilities Program Grants, with at least 10% set aside for persistent poverty areas; · $65.5 million for Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s Rural Outreach Programs, targeted specifically to rural communities with high rates of poverty, unemployment, and substance abuse; · Language directing HUD to develop strategies for reducing veteran homelessness on US-Mexico border; and · Language directing the Census to increase outreach to historically undercounted communities, including colonias. The bill also maintains funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) at $3 billion. The CDBG program allocates annual grants cities and counties to develop viable communities by providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and opportunities to expand economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons. President Trump has threatened to eliminate this program. In previous years, local areas within the Texas 28th District have received up to the following amounts of CDBG money for projects: · Laredo, TX -- $3,436,805.00 · Rio Bravo, TX -- $201,884.00 · El Cenizo, TX -- $275,000.00 · Webb County, TX -- $275,000.00 · Atascosa County, TX and cities within it -- $681,706.00 · Wilson County, TX and cities within it -- $506 250.00 · San Antonio, TX -- $11,457,418.00 · Bexar County, TX -- $2,180,749.00 · Mission, TX -- $904,240.00 · Hidalgo County, TX -- $7,226,312.00 · Zapata County, TX -- $1,314,899.00 · Starr County, TX -- $3,768,812.00 These provisions were part of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which funds the government for fiscal year 2017 and which passed the House of Representatives last week. It also included many other key legislative accomplishments for Congressman Cuellar, including support for education, clean drinking water, Rio Grande Valley citrus growers, and good governance.
05.05.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that nomination applications for U.S. Service Academies are now live on his web site. Every year, Congressman Cuellar has the privilege of nominating young men and women from the 28th Congressional District for admission into our nation’s four service academies that require a congressional nomination: the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at King's Point. (The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London has its own selection process based on a nationwide merit-based competitive process, for which congressional nominations are not required.) “This is a highly competitive application process,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our nation’s service academies take only the very best students from across the country and mold them into outstanding leaders. This year, I had seven students from across my district that were accepted either into a U.S. Service Academy or a U.S. Service Academy Preparatory School—the largest in my district’s history. I am very proud of the students that our district produces and, as a supporter of our armed services and higher education, I am honored to nominate them. I thank these students and their families for choosing to serve our armed services.” Instruction for the nomination applications for the Class of 2022 can be accessed here. All applications must be postmarked by Friday, November 3, 2017. Candidates interested in seeking a nomination from Congressman Cuellar to one of these academies must download a copy of the application packet on https://cuellar.house.gov in addition to applying directly to the academy's admissions office. Basic Requirements for Service Academy Eligibility · Must be at least 17, but not yet 23 years old by July 1 of year of admission to the academy · Must be a citizen of the United States · Must be unmarried · Cannot be pregnant or have legal obligation to support a child or other dependents · Must meet the medical, physical, and academic requirements of the Academy The nomination process is competitive, so applicants hoping to attend one of these academies should consider this opportunity very carefully and start taking steps toward applying now. Applicants may contact Outreach Coordinator Pete Arguello at (210) 271-2851 or pete.arguello@mail.house.gov for further details.
05.04.2017	In response to the news that the House of Representatives will vote on TrumpCare today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) said: “TrumpCare would be a disaster for the people of Texas. It will strip health care from 24 million Americans. Many of the rest will get less coverage at a higher cost, especially people over 50, who will face a crushing age tax even if they are healthy. That’s more than 185,000 people just in my district. And anyone with a pre-existing condition will be put at extreme risk. It steals from Medicare and even cuts services for children in special education, leaving their families with fewer options. It is also financially irresponsible; the independent Congressional Budget Office has not even had a chance to score this legislation, so we don’t know what it will cost our taxpayers. I represent one of the highest uninsured populations in Congress. This bill hurts the most vulnerable to help the most powerful. It gives the richest 400 Americans (including the President and most of his Cabinet) an average $7 million tax cut by cutting Medicaid for poor children. That’s not what my constituents in Texas sent me to Congress to do. A few weeks ago, I held a telephone town hall meeting with members of my district, to hear their concerns about health care. One constituent, a breast cancer survivor, shared her story. She is alive today because a cancer screening found a tumor. But the Republican plan will take preventive care like cancer screenings away from many Americans, including some on employer-sponsored plans. She wondered if her neighbors and friends would die from treatable cancers, without access to those life-saving screenings. Because of constituents like her, I plan to vote against this legislation. I urge my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, to do the same.”
05.04.2017	Following the House vote today to repeal the Affordable Care Act and pass a weak Republican substitute, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), who voted against the bill, said: “I am saddened that my colleagues voted to strip health care from 24 million Americans, make it harder for 7 million veterans to get care, and to put everyone with pre-existing conditions at grave risk. The people of my district will suffer if the Senate does not stop this legislation. I represent communities with some of the highest uninsured rates in the country. This bill hurts the most vulnerable to help the most powerful. It gives the richest 400 Americans (including the President and most of his Cabinet) an average $7 million tax cut by cutting Medicaid for poor children. I hope our Senate colleagues reject this bill, and protect the health of the Americans who sent us all to Washington to work for them.”
05.03.2017	Today, Congressman Cuellar announced that he has successfully included language in the Omnibus Appropriations Act to hire at least 10 additional immigration judges, along with many other border security measures he included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act. The House of Representatives is set to vote this week on the legislation, which would fund the government for the rest of the 2017 fiscal year. “Increasing the number of judges to process immigration cases is a common sense solution that should appeal to everyone, no matter how you feel about immigration policy,” explained Congressman Cuellar. “When an attempted undocumented immigrant is identified, processing that case quickly is good for the United States and the individual. That means hiring more qualified immigration judges.” “Law and order at the border is a top priority for me. And I always want to support our Border Patrol and National Guard, who keep us safe,” he continued. “That’s why I supported funding for evidence-based programs and technologies that we know are effective at securing our border – from personnel increases to aero stats.” “I would like to thank Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano, as well as Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard, for their leadership on these important justice and security issues.” Judge Teams These 10 new judge teams (the judges themselves, plus necessary support staff) will be in addition to the 55 for which Congressman Cuellar successfully appropriated funds in the 2016 fiscal year omnibus bill. He has consistently fought to address the delays that let immigration review cases drag on for months or years, and to cut down on the over half-million backlog of immigration cases. Currently, the median length of a case involving a detained individual is 71 days. The median length for someone non-detained is 665 days. An immigration judge hears between 75 and 90 cases on average each week. The new legislative language requires monthly reports on the performance of immigration judges. It also includes: $1.706 million for criminal justice IT system upgrade; $5.727 million for courtroom space/infrastructure; and Language setting a goal for immigration cases to be processed in 60 days if the individual is detained, and in 365 days if the individual is not detained. Border Security Measures – Texas’ 28th District As part of his work on the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar fought for necessary border security projects and programs that will improve the 28th district. Highlights include: $49,200,000 - Construction of 35 gates to secure existing barriers in Rio Grande Valley Sector. $37,000,000 - 18 Remote Video Surveillance Systems (RVSS) in Rio Grande Valley Sector and Laredo Sector · Remote Video Surveillance Systems (RVSS) are a fixed technology asset used in select areas along the Southwest and Northern borders. These systems provide short-, medium-, and long-range persistent surveillance mounted on stand-alone towers, or other structures. The RVSS uses cameras, radio and microwave transmitters to send video to a control room and enable a control room operator to remotely detect and, to a limited extent, track, identify and classify targets using the video feed. $11,500,000 - 19 Mobile Video Surveillance Systems (MVSS) in Laredo Sector and Del Rio Sector · Mobile Vehicle Surveillance Systems (MVSS) provide short- and medium-range mobile surveillance equipment mounted on telescoping poles and consist of a suite of camera sensors mounted on Border Patrol vehicles. An agent deploys with the system, which detects, and to a more limited extent, tracks, identifies and classifies items of interest using the video feed. The agent/operator observes activity on the video monitor to detect intrusions and assist agents/officers in responding to those intrusions. · Technology is critical to border security operations and through the deployment of this effective technology, the Border Patrol gains more coverage of fixed surveillance gaps and situational awareness, and increases its ability to adapt to changing conditions and effectively detect, identify, track, and interdict potential threats along the Southwest border. $20,000,000 - Additional Remote Video Surveillance System (RVSS) and Mobile Video Surveillance Systems (MVSS) in Rio Grande Valley Sector. Border Security Measures – Nationwide The omnibus bill also reflects Congressman Cuellar’s longtime advocacy for smart, proven-effective security tools and technologies across the entire southern border. Highlights of the provisions he fought for include: $273,906,000 for State Criminal Alien Assistance Program; $19,000,000 for Operation Phalanx; $234 million for National Guard Counter-Drug Program; $25,683,000 for the operation and support of 6 tactical aerostats and 17 relocatable towers; Language to streamline hiring for Homeland Security; Language for greater transparency in ICE detention centers; $183,275,000 for Alternatives to Detention; $10,300,000 for Port of Entry Technology; and Language directing the Department of Justice to continue prioritizing drug trafficking and money laundering prosecutions.
05.03.2017	Just before voting with a majority of his House of Representatives colleagues to pass the Omnibus Appropriations bill to fund the federal government for the rest of fiscal year 2017, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) spoke on the House floor to praise the bipartisan compromise that led to the spending bill. The bill, which passed the House 309-118, provides $22.5 billion in funding for year-round Federal Pell Grants, $2 billion in funding for the National Institute of Health, provides funding for 10 more federal immigration judges and supporting staff across the country, and $1.5 billion in funding for increased border security. The budget compromise has zero funding for what Congressman Cuellar called a “medieval” border wall in his one-minute floor speech. “This bill today is a compromise bill. This is a good bill because it’s the way Congress should be working. It provides an increase to the Pell Grants. It provides $2 billion to the National Institute of Health. It provides a solution to the citrus greening crisis that’s impacting our citrus growers in South Texas and other parts. It provides funding for 10 additional immigration judges and their support staff to help cut down the backlog of over half a million cases that we have, on top of the 55 immigration judges we had last year. [It provides] $1.5 billion dollars to improve the nation’s border security without funding the medieval wall. So again, I want to thank all my colleagues for working in a bipartisan way.” View video of Rep. Cuellar speaking in favor of the budget compromise here: https://youtu.be/MSKJynTLtDo Download the video here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/595bzu4qeapuagh/RR0380.mp4?dl=0 # # #
05.02.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of language in the Omnibus Appropriations Act to increase the maximum award for Pell Grants, and change federal rules to allow Pell Grants to be applied to Summer tuition. The maximum Pell Grant will increase from $5,815 to $5,920 – up to $105 more per student. In addition, after visiting with administrators at South Texas colleges and universities, Congressman Cuellar supported language that reinstates year-round, or "Summer," Pell Grants which are estimated to provide approximately 1 million students nationwide with an additional grant averaging $1,650. More than 9,500 students in Texas’ 28th Congressional district received Pell Grants for the 2016-2017 school year, adding up to more than $36 million distributed just to students in Congressman Cuellar’s district. Rep. Cuellar stated, "This is a game changer for both our colleges and universities, and South Texas families. For most South Texas families, Pell Grants are the key to college affordability. Both the increase and reinstatement of the Summer grant mean more students can graduate sooner, and graduate with less debt. This was one of our top priorities and I am grateful to Appropriations Committee Chairman Frelinghusen and Ranking Member Lowey, as well as Appropriations Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for their bipartisan effort. When both parties work together we get common sense policies that support the middle class and make our country better." Dr. Pablo Arenaz, President of Texas A&M International University, said, “At Texas A&M International University, Cong. Cuellar’s advocacy has significantly accelerated students’ degree pursuit and career success. As the most degreed member in Congress, his advocacy is clearly rooted in his personal experience, which inspires our students daily. As a champion of higher education in our Congress, he has few equals. We applaud his commitment to ensuring students can attend institutions that change lives.” LCC President Dr. Ricardo J. Solis said that the college applauds Congressman Cuellar for his efforts to expand the Pell Grant’s reach. He said, “Congressman Cuellar’s support for Laredo Community College and our students is greatly appreciated and continues to make a difference in our students’ lives. Success at the college level is dependent on financial aid for many of our students. The Pell Grant helps provide much-needed financial support necessary to complete a certificate or associate degree program. By increasing the maximum award and allowing it to cover summer courses, students are far more likely to graduate on time and achieve greater success.” Universities in the South Texas region and their percentage of Pell Grant recipients (for which the latest NCES data is available) who are first time, full time degree seekers: · Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) 74% · Hallmark University (San Antonio) 65% · Laredo Community College 79% · Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) 51% · Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) 64% · Palo Alto College (San Antonio) 69% · South Texas College (McAllen) 80% · St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) 52% · St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) 65% · Texas A&M International University (Laredo) 67% · The University of Texas at San Antonio 47% · The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio 33% · The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley 70% · University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) 46% · Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) 51% · Texas A&M San Antonio 50% The budget compromise avoids a government shutdown and funds the federal government through the remainder of fiscal year 2017.
05.02.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of $59 million in federal funds to help U.S. citrus growers, including those in the Rio Grande Valley, in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The funds, which Congressman Cuellar included in this year’s fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Bill with the help of Congressman Filemon Vela and Congressman Vicente Gonzalez, will offer support to citrus farmers in a number of ways. He also thanked Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop for their leadership of the committee and assistance on these issues. “Our citrus growers contribute greatly to the economy of the Rio Grande Valley, and they deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The $59 million worth of funding I have helped secure for citrus growers would be a great help to our farmers. We are making good progress toward correcting the damage done by threats like the incurable citrus greening disease, which has caused drastic reductions in citrus production in recent years and has placed all Texas citrus-producing counties under quarantine.” He continued, “I would like to thank Congressmen Valadao and Congressman Rooney, both representing states that have also suffered from citrus greening, for their help in securing this language. I would also like to thank fellow Rio Grande Valley Congressmen Gonzalez and Vela for working with me on this issue. Finally, I would especially like to recognize the work of Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Bishop, for their leadership and assistance.” "The Rio Grande Valley has long been known for its Ruby Red grapefruits and thriving citrus industry,” said Congressman Vicente Gonzalez. “Recently, our growers in South Texas and across the country in Florida and California, have become vulnerable to invasive pests and plant diseases like the Mexican fruit fly and citrus greening. Working with Congressmen Henry Cuellar and Filemon Vela, we were able to secure funding to support crucial fruit fly eradication, citrus greening facilities and research programs that will give our growers the tools they need to fight off these devastating diseases." Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a nonprofit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Grande Valley and has personally seen the effects of citrus disease like citrus greening since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. Mr. Murden said, “Congressman Cuellar has long supported agriculture and the United States and Texas Citrus Industries. We cannot thank him enough for his support and his bi-partisan approach to problem solving.” Fruit flies and why they matter One of the ways in which Congressman Cuellar is looking out for the citrus industry is by including $47 million to improve and repair facilities that engage in fruit fly eradication research. The U.S. citrus industry is worth $11 billion, but the pests have caused more than $1 billion worth of damage. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or APHIS, has previously developed and implemented successful eradication efforts. Currently, however, the facilities are inadequate. This is why it is all the more important to ensure that APHIS can continue its good work to protect this industry that is such a major part of the local economy. APHIS’ eradication efforts work by releasing sterile male fruit flies to mate with females, a process which over time eliminates the next generation of invasive fruit flies. Citrus Health Response Program and the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group Congressman Cuellar’s language also includes an increase of $5 million for the Citrus Health Response Program (CHRP), which is administered under APHIS at USDA. CHRP is a key program whose express goal is to support the U.S. citrus industry, maintain access to export markets and protect citrus-growing states, including Texas, from a variety of citrus diseases and pests. This is accomplished by cooperation between federal and state agricultural regulators. Congressman Cuellar has previously supported efforts to increase funding for the CHRP. Including funds the congressman supported in the 2014 farm bill, the last farm bill, which provides $25 million per year. Separately, Congressman Cuellar helped secure $5.5 million for the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group (HLB-MAC). Huanglongbing is the official name for citrus greening disease, which is spread from the Asian Citrus Psyllid. Like CHRP, HLB-MAC falls under APHIS. HLB-MAC attacks the problem of citrus greening disease through a coordinated response from federal and state entities. Participating organizations include APHIS, the Agricultural Research Service, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, state departments of agriculture and industry groups. Recognizing the urgency of tackling citrus greening disease Congressman Cuellar also included language in the Agriculture appropriations bill to encourage APHIS to allocate sufficient resources to address the issue of citrus greening and directs HLB-MAC to give out resources in the best way possible to maximize the effect it can have on the disease. Congressman Cuellar also included language encouraging the continuation of good work by other federal agencies with one another in the fight against citrus greening. The hope behind these working groups is to bring together relevant stakeholders, develop innovative solutions and help USDA choose good projects that will bring us closer to short-term and long-term solutions to the citrus greening problem, in addition to an eventual cure. Congressman Cuellar included language commending the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) on its citrus greening research efforts and to continue its cooperation with HLB-MAC. The language encourages the agency to continue working to curb the spread of the disease and enhance immunity in citrus trees as well as to work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective ways of controlling the disease. ARS is a member of HLB-MAC. He also included language encouraging the use of CHRP funds to partner with state departments of agriculture and industry groups to address the disease in addition to encouraging APHIS to use the funds available in the Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Preventions Programs account and in the funds for CHRP to keep the citrus industry viable. Finally, Congressman Cuellar included language that prioritizes citrus greening research projects through the Emergency Citrus Disease Research and Extension Program, which was created under the 2014 farm bill, and encourages the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to work with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Advisory Board’s citrus disease subcommittee and to collaborate with HLB-MAC. KEY AGENCIES: APHIS (Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) – arm of the United States Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting animal health, animal welfare, and plant health CHRP (Citrus Health Response Program) – administered under APHIS, helps protect the U.S. citrus-growing industry and works on coordination between state and federal entities HLB-MAC (Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group) – administered under APHIS; goal is to confront Huanglongbing, or citrus greening disease, through research efforts and coordination between state and federal regulatory agencies ARS (Agricultural Research Service) – member of HLB-MAC that has worked on citrus greening research efforts
05.01.2017	In response to the news that a compromise Omnibus Appropriations Bill will come to the House this week, Congressman Henry Cuellar said: "This compromise is a big win for the American people, especially middle class families. Year-round funding of Pell Grants means more kids can stay in school this Summer and get closer to graduating and entering the workforce. Zero funding for an unnecessary border wall means private property rights and the environment will be protected. And, grants for medical research and infrastructure remain in place. This compromise validates what I have been saying for months: the Congress--not the White House--sets the budget. As a member of House Appropriations I see it every day: Democrats and Republicans working together to keep our priorities funded and our government functioning. I am grateful to Chairman Freylinghusen, Ranking Member Lowey and my colleagues for including many of my budget riders, including help for Texas citrus growers and funding for more immigration judges for the border." # # # El congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, ha emitido la siguiente declaración en repuesta a la noticia de que la Cámara de Representantes llegará a una solución intermedia esta semana en cuanto a una extensión del presupuesto federal: “Este compromiso es un gran triunfo para el pueblo estadounidense, y especialmente para las familias de la clase media. El financiamiento durante todo el año para las Becas Federal Pell significa que más estudiantes pueden dedicarse al estudiar durante el verano y acercarse a la graduación y entrar a la población activa. Cero financiamiento para un muro fronterizo innecesario significa que los derechos de los dueños de propiedad privada y el medio ambiente serán protegidos. Y, las becas para la investigación médica y la infraestructura permanecerán disponibles. Este compromiso valida lo que he dicho por meses: que el Congreso—y no la Casa Blanca—establece el presupuesto. Como miembro del Comité de Asignaciones en la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos, lo veo todos los días: Demócratas y Republicanos trabajando juntos para financiar las prioridades de la nación y para mantener el gobierno funcionando. Agradezco al presidente Freylinghusen, al Miembro de Rango Superior Lowey, y a mis colegas por incluir mi legislación, incluso ayuda para los agricultores de cítrico en Texas y financiamiento para tener más jueces de inmigración en la frontera.”
05.01.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that when the House of Representatives votes this week on the Omnibus Appropriations Act, which will fund the federal government for fiscal year 2017 (FY17), the bill will include a proposed $10 million in reimbursement for the Mission Reach project. The bill also included language instructing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to investigate ways to address environmental concerns around Mitchell Lake. Congressman Cuellar requested both of these provisions as part of his role on the Appropriations Committee. Mission Reach was a USACE project to prevent San Antonio River flooding and restore natural plant and animal habitats in 2013. However, the money to complete it was loaned to the project by Bexar County. The federal government has slowly been paying back the funds to Bexar County since that time. In fiscal year 2016 (FY16), the project received $5 million in reimbursement. If the Omnibus bill passes the House of Representatives this week, the project will receive double that amount for FY17. “I would like to thank Senators Cornyn and Cruz, and my fellow Congressman from San Antonio – Rep. Castro, Rep. Smith, Rep. Hurd, and Rep. Doggett – for their help accelerating its repayment of these Bexar County funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Mission Reach project has had undeniable benefits to the community. However, it is time for Bexar County to be reimbursed for its loan to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. I’m glad these requests I made to help my district made it to the final bill.” According to the San Antonio River Authority, “The Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project has transformed an eight mile stretch of the San Antonio River into a quality riparian woodland ecosystem. This unique project restores riverine features and riparian woodlands, reintroduces native plants, enhances aquatic habitat, and reconnects cultural and historical features.”
04.28.2017	In response to President Trump’s comments today before the National Rifle Association summit, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said: “Today, President Trump’s acknowledged something we Texans have been saying all along: that there are natural barriers on the border that would make a wall unnecessary and impractical. If the President is sincere, and is ready to collaborate with Democrats and Republicans on the most effective, modern border security tools, I am ready to work. We need to support our border patrol with technology and personnel. But if he changes his mind yet again, and insists on a comprehensive border wall, he will continue to face bipartisan opposition. Every single Texas border Congressman opposes this wall – because the Americans that live there oppose it, too. I will not give up fighting for my constituents on this.” Congressman Cuellar represents 280 miles of U.S.-Mexico border.
04.26.2017	Yesterday, the General Services Administration (GSA) submitted an important next step in the years-long process to secure new courthouse facilities in McAllen, Texas, championed by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28). A new GSA study (attached) lays out four options for the future of McAllen’s courthouse, which earlier studies ordered by Rep. Cuellar found has inadequate facilities. Senator Cornyn said: “The Judges, staff, and all Texans in the Rio Grande Valley who use the federal courthouse deserve a safe and modern facility. I’m thankful for the dedication of Rep. Cuellar, city leaders, and all who have partnered with us as we continue to fight for a new federal courthouse in McAllen.” In response to the new GSA findings, Rep. Cuellar said: “I would like to thank the General Services Administration for laying out specific options and concrete next steps for our courthouse in McAllen. We have known for a long time that the current facilities are just not good enough. I will continue to fight to get this community the courthouse it deserves. I am grateful for the continued collaboration of Senators Cornyn and Cruz, Representatives Vela and Gonzalez, and former Representative Ruben Hinojosa. Mayor Jim Darling and the City of McAllen have been valuable partners; their offer to donate city land for a new courthouse may be crucial as we look to lower costs for land acquisition, design and construction. And I would also like to thank Judge Ricardo H. Hinojosa, whose advocacy on this matter has been essential.” Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar have advocated for new courthouse facilities in McAllen for many years. An earlier GSA study found that the current courthouse space, rented from a private owner, is not adequate, causing security concerns and other problems. Since then, Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar, along with Judge Hinojosa, Senator Cruz, Representatives Gonzalez and Vela, former Representative Hinojosa, and Mayor Darling, have fought for McAllen through years of red tape. In September 2016, they achieved a breakthrough when the Administrative Office of the United States Courts agreed to instruct GSA to take the next step: a phase 1 study of what actions are necessary to improve or replace the facilities in McAllen. The results of that investigation were released by GSA yesterday. GSA lays out four options in the attached document for a new McAllen courthouse. These options, however, do not take into account the generosity of the City of McAllen and Mayor Darling who have offered to donate land for the project. In June of 2017, the Space and Facilities Committee of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (AOC) will meet to decide if they should recommend McAllen for inclusion on the AOC Courthouse Priorities Plan, to be voted on by the entire Judicial Conference of the US Courts in September. # # #
04.25.2017	In response to reports that President Trump will postpone the fight over funding a border wall, likely averting a government shutdown, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said: “Americans deserve to see bipartisan collaboration on the real challenges facing this country. Lately, instead they’ve seen threats to shut down the government, and an expensive plan to use their tax dollars for an ineffective border wall. That’s why I’m glad to hear that President Trump might be backing down, at least for now. He has reportedly agreed not to force a government shutdown this week, and to postpone the fight over his border wall idea until September. If that distraction is at least temporarily postponed, we in Congress must take the opportunity to work together. Let’s fund our national security, and the programs our constituents actually want. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Democrat and Republican, on the Appropriations Committee this week. And when President Trump brings up his border wall again, whether in September or next week, I will continue to fight back. My constituents in Texas’ 28th district have made it clear that they oppose this project.” Rep. Cuellar has been a consistent advocate for smart, effective border security measures in his role on the Homeland Security Appropriations subcommittee. His district includes 280 miles of U.S.-Mexico border.
04.24.2017	In response to threats from President Trump to shut down the government if Congress will not approve funds to build a fence on our southern border, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said: “President Trump is threatening to shut down the government if he doesn’t get to build his symbolic border wall. He wants to cut things like education, transportation, and health care, to fund his pet project. Now that he is facing bipartisan opposition to this irresponsible plan, he wants to punish the American people by shutting down the government. President Trump should be leading the nation, and encouraging investment in border security measures that actually work.” Rep. Cuellar has been a consistent advocate for smart, effective border security measures in his role on the Homeland Security Appropriations subcommittee. His district includes 280 miles of U.S.-Mexico border.
04.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the acceptance of Poteet High School seniors Emma Foster into the United States Naval Academy, and Rex Yee into the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Both will enter during the fall 2017 academic semester. Congressman Cuellar presents Poteet High School senior Emma Foster with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition at the Poteet High School Competition Gymnasium Monday in honor of being accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy. Congressman Cuellar presents Poteet High School senior Rex Yee with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition at the Poteet High School Competition Gymnasium Monday in honor of being accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities and personal accomplishments. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every year, over 12,000 students meet the requirements for application into these academies and only 1,000 actually receive offers of appointment. I am very proud of these exceptional students, as are their parents, friends and teachers, because not only have they have excelled in school, but they have made the decision to serve their country. Both Emma and Rex had impressive applications and will certainly Poteet very proud.” About Emma Foster Daughter of Douglas and Dawn Foster, Emma was recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Naval Academy for the fall semester of 2017, where she will be receiving an education worth approximately $193,000. Emma has maintained a 4.0 GPA and ranks first in her class. She is currently the vice president of the National Honor Society, president of the Student Council, and volunteers with Relay for Life, the Special Olympics and is involved with Sacred Heart Catholic Church. Previously she was team captain for the volleyball team and participated in both track and field and competitive weight lifting. About Rex Yee Son of Xenia Yee, Rex was recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School for the fall semester of 2017, where he will prepare for life at the U.S. Air Force Academy. According to the Air Force Academy Admissions Office, the academy prep school only selects around 240 students out of an estimated 9,000 students who apply each year. Rex has maintained a 4.0 GPA and ranks fifth in his class. He is the recipient of the Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans National Scholarship, and is involved in various sports at Poteet High School. He has volunteered with many initiatives including Adopt-A-Highway, Adopt-A-Beach and the Poteet Strawberry Association, where he was named the association’s “Berry Important Person” three years in a row and the Strawberry Festival King in 2015.
04.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the acceptance of La Vernia High School senior Alyssa Tamburo into the United States Air Force Academy for the fall 2017 academic semester. Congressman Cuellar presents La Vernia High School senior Alyssa Tamburo with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition on Monday in honor of being accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities and personal accomplishments. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every year, over 12,000 students meet the requirements for application into these academies and only 1,000 actually receive offers of appointment. I am very proud of Alyssa, as are her parents, friends, and teachers, because not only has she excelled in school, but she has made the decision to serve her country. Alyssa had an impressive application and will certainly La Vernia very proud.” About Alyssa Tamburo Daughter of Michael and Lesley Tamburo, Alyssa was recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Air Force Academy for the fall semester of 2017, where she will be receiving an education worth approximately $400,000. Alyssa has maintained a 4.0 GPA and ranks first in her class. She is currently the vice president of the La Vernia Speech and Debate Team, and a member of the National Honor Society, the National Forensics League and the Model UN for her school. She received the National Academy of Future Scientists and Technologists Award of Excellence. Alyssa also volunteers with the Special Olympics, the La Vernia Fire Department and the Newcomers Fair, where she helps welcome and provides information to new students at La Vernia ISD.
04.20.2017	Today at the World Trade Bridge, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) joined City of Laredo leaders, U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials, and representatives of the international trade community to announce that federal officials have approved the city’s planned $10.3 million FAST Lane Expansion Project. “This expansion will streamline international commerce through Laredo, eliminating costly bottlenecks and benefiting the local and national economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Laredo is the third-ranked port of entry in the entire nation, and an economic engine for Texas. This project is good for businesses, the city, and the country. It’s exactly the result I was hoping for when I wrote legislation to make this type of project possible.” Mayor Pete Saenz said, “The City’s plans to construct a fast lane at World Trade Bridge will greatly enhance the free flow of commercial truck traffic and its competitiveness and maintain Laredo as the number one land port of the Americas. The approval of the construction of these facilities through the Donation Acceptance Program signifies the realization of collaborative local, state, and federal efforts.” In 2014, Congressman Henry Cuellar successfully added legislative language (Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014, P.L. 113-76, Section 559) to make this expansion possible. He designed it to ease delays and improve infrastructure at our nation’s ports of entry, establishing a program to allow U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) to give cities like Laredo permission to fund and execute projects involving federal property through the Donation Acceptance Program (DAP). In 2016, Congressman Cuellar and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) passed H.R. 875, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016, built on that program. In November 2016, the City of Laredo submitted a proposal for this project to CBP and GSA; those agencies approved it this week. The project will relocate FAST lanes to a new site on the north side of the federal compound, allowing FAST trucks a more direct route from the bridge, into the new FAST inspection facility, and on to their final destinations.
04.18.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the acceptance of Gabriel “Gabe” Acosta into the United States Naval Academy Preparatory School. Congressman Cuellar presents United High School Senior Gabriel "Gabe" Acosta with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition in honor of being accepted into the Naval Academy Preparatory School. Pictured from left to right are Gabe's parents and sister, and Congressman Cuellar: L-R, Gabriel Acosta Sr., assistant chief patrol agent at the Laredo Border Patrol Sector; United High Senior Gabe Acosta; U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar; Talisa V. Acosta; and Veronica Acosta. Congressman Cuellar presents United High School Senior Gabriel "Gabe" Acosta with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition in honor of being accepted into the Naval Academy Preparatory School. Pictured are the Acosta family with Gabe Acosta, center right with certificate, and Congressman Henry Cuellar. This year, three students from J.B. Alexander High School, and Gabe Acosta from United High School, were all accepted into either a U.S. Service Academy of a U.S. Service Academy preparatory school for fall 2017—the largest in Laredo’s history. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities and personal accomplishments. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every year, over 12,000 students meet the requirements for application into these academies and only 1,000 actually receive offers of appointment. Gabe had an impressive application and will certainly make Laredo proud at the U.S. Naval Academy prep school. “This year, we’re celebrating the largest acceptance rate we’ve ever had in Laredo, with three students from Alexander High School and one from United High School. I am very proud of our community and these exceptional students, as are their parents, friends and teachers, because not only have they have excelled in school, but they have made the decision to serve their country.” About Gabe Acosta Son of Veronica and Gabriel Acosta, Gabe was recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Naval Academy Preparatory School, also known as NAPS, for the fall semester of 2017, where he will prepare for life at the Naval Academy. Getting accepted into NAPS is highly competitive, as they only select around 250 students out of an estimated 15,000 students who apply to the Naval Academy each year. Gabe has maintained a 3.9 GPA as a student in the Engineering and Technology Magnet program at United High School, and is a member of the National Honor Society, the UISD Superintendent’s Student Advisory Committee and the student council. He is the founder and president of United Fitness (U-Fit), which is United’s first and only fitness club. He also plays track and field and over 500 volunteer hours through community involvement.
04.18.2017	Today, Senate Democrats released a report (attached) attempting to estimate the cost of President Trump’s proposed border wall idea. In response, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), a member of the Homeland Security Appropriations subcommittee which funds Border Patrol, wrote: "A new report has found that President Trump's border wall idea may cost up to $70 billion taxpayer dollars - despite little evidence it will actually improve security. The President's expensive side project would be a 14th century solution to a 21st century problem, at unacceptable prices. The administration is also planning to seize private land from my constituents, in exchange for laughably small payments. Texans of all political stripes don't like federal agents taking their property. We will fight this bad idea until the President finally admits that it isn't going to happen." Key findings from the report include: There is no reliable estimate of the cost of construction of the full border wall, but extrapolated estimates place the construction cost of the wall and associated technology and infrastructure at nearly $70 billion. That amounts to a total cost to every American man, woman, and child of over $200. A costbenefit analysis of the project is not complete. The projected cost of construction for every mile is rapidly increasing to as much as $36.6 million per mile. This does not include the costs of acquiring the land on which the wall will be built. It also does not include the maintenance costs of border barrier, which may total nearly $150 million per year. The Department cannot provide a cost estimate of the anticipated land acquisition to the Committee. In the past, the U.S. government spent at least $78 million to acquire land where fencing is currently in place. When the U.S. government has been forced to go to court, the costs of land acquisition can be much higher; in past land condemnation cases involving border fencing, the government spent more than $11 million on acquiring 271 acres of land from private landowners, an average price of $42,600 per acre. In one case in Cameron County, Texas, a landowner was initially offered $233,000 for 3.1 acres. After a three-year legal battle, the government eventually paid at least $4.7 million, a nearly 2,000 percent increase over the initial offer. Litigation to acquire the land to build the wall may last a decade or longer. Of the more than 300 condemnation cases related to past border fencing efforts filed before a district judge in Texas, the vast majority of which were filed in 2008, over 90 condemnation cases remain unresolved and fence has not been built in those locations. Concrete prototypes of the wall will be paid for by slashing the budget for mobile video surveillance.
04.13.2017	Recently, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) notified Laredo-based Teaching and Mentoring Communities (TMC), which runs Head Start programs for the children of migrants, that they might soon face a ban on receiving federal funds. The notification letter (attached) proposed this ‘debarment’ of TMC, which until now has been largely funded through federal contracts, due to financial mismanagement of the organization. HHS will begin to review the proposed debarment on May 10, 2017. TMC will have due process and an opportunity to contest the final decision. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said in response to the news: “I have previously expressed concern about TMC’s administration of federal Head Start funds. This action from HHS only adds to that concern. I have spoken with the U.S Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of Head Start to ensure that regardless of the outcome services to children and families will not be affected.” “As a federal appropriator, it is my job to make sure federal taxpayer money is being used efficiently. I will continue to work with the Department of Health and Human Services and Office of Head Start to ensure services are not interrupted, and to find the best possible outcome for our community.” The proposed debarment is an escalation of previous federal concerns about TMC’s management of federal funds. In May 2015, the HHS Departmental Appeals Board Decision confirmed TMC had overcharged Head Start grants by $634,958. In December 2015, the HHS Office of Inspector General found that TMC used Head Start funds inappropriately. The letter from HHS to TMC is attached.
04.13.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today the accepted of three Alexander High School students into U.S. Service Academies and a U.S. Service Academy Preparatory School. Alexander High School students Diego Mendez, Christina Gonzalez and Andie Martinez were recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, and the United States Naval Academy Preparatory School, respectively. Gabriel Acosta from United High School was also accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy. An official announcement will be made for Gabriel at United High School on Tuesday, April 18. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations to the military academies. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities and personal accomplishments. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every year, over 12,000 students meet the requirements for application into these academies and only 1,000 actually receive offers of appointment. Alexander and United ISD have put forth incredible students that I was proud to nominate. Diego, Christina and Andie had impressive test scores, GPAs and extensive community service. “This year, we’re celebrating the largest acceptance rate we’ve ever had in Laredo, with three students from Alexander High School and one from United High School. I am very proud of our community and these exceptional students, as are their parents, friends and teachers, because not only have they have excelled in school, but they have made the decision to serve their country.” Congressman Henry Cuellar recognizes three Alexander High School students on their recent acceptance into the U.S. Air Force Academy (Diego Mendez), the U.S. Naval Academy (Christina Gonzalez), and the Naval Academy Preparatory School (Andie Martinez). Pictured from left to right are Andie Martinez, Diego Mendez, Christina Gonzalez and Congressman Cuellar. About the students Diego Mendez Son of Ricardo and Delia Mendez and a senior at Alexander High School, Diego was recently nominated by Congressman Cuellar and accepted into the United States Air Force Academy for the fall semester of 2017, where he will be receiving an education worth $400,000. Diego has maintained a 3.85 GPA, posted a 1240 on his SAT and is member of the National Honor Society. He has earned the top rank of Eagle Scout and has also played a role in founding both the Junior Hands Across South Texas charity, which aids battered women and children, and the Tutor Club at Alexander. Diego volunteers with Relay for Life and is a member of Blessed Sacrament Church. Christina Gonzalez Daughter of Yvonne and Gerardo Gonzalez and senior at Alexander High School, Christina was nominated by Congressman Cuellar and offered acceptance into the U.S. Naval Academy for the fall semester of 2017, where she will be receiving an education worth approximately $193,000. Christina has maintained a 4.18 GPA and ranks within the top 3 percent of her class. She scored an 1160 on her SAT. She is Varsity Volleyball Captain and a member of the Dental Club and the Superintendent’s Student Advisory, and volunteers with Big Brothers Big Sisters, LifeTeen and Health Occupations for Students in America (HOSA). Andie Martinez Daughter of Brenda and Robert Martinez and senior at Alexander High School, Andie was nominated by Congressman Cuellar and was selected to attend the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School, also known as NAPS, where she will prepare for life at the Naval Academy. Getting accepted into NAPS is highly competitive, as they only select around 250 students out of an estimated 15,000 students who apply to the Naval Academy each year. Andie has maintained a 3.78 GPA and scored an 1140 on her SAT. She is a member of the National Honor Society, Beta Society and the Student Council. She also serves as Organizing President of Key Club International and the Captain of the Dazzler J.B. Alexander High School Dance & Drill team. She has logged in over 1,000 volunteer hours assisting with Jeans for Teens, Reading to Kids with the HOST Program, the local soup kitchen and the HEB Feast of Sharing.
04.10.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar welcomed the news that a Texas route including Laredo and San Antonio is under consideration for an ultra-high-speed transportation project called a Hyperloop. The route would connect Laredo to San Antonio, Houston, Austin, and Dallas. Hyperloop One, a company founded by Tesla visionary Elon Musk, is preparing to build a system for moving passengers and freight across long distances at hundreds of miles per hour, in above-ground tubes. Eleven groups from around the country submitted competing proposals for where the first route should go when the technology is available. Hyperloop One selected the Texas proposal, developed by a Dallas-based team from the company AECOM, for the top five. "I am encouraged by the selection of the Texas proposal as a finalist in the Hyperloop contest," said Congressman Cuellar. "Being an early adopter of this new technology would show the world that we are a growing, innovative state with a 21st-century economy. It would attract new companies and jobs to our great cities. Our traditional industries would see immediate benefits, too: they could transport freight over land faster and more cheaply than ever before." "I join the chorus of local governments and businesses supporting a Texas Hyperloop. While success in this contest does not guarantee that we will receive a Hyperloop when the technology becomes available, I welcome this promising sign." The proposal called Laredo “arguably one of the most important economic assets to the country.” Last year, Congressman Cuellar met with representatives of Hyperloop in Laredo. The Metropolitan Transit Authority, the Port of Houston Authority, the Houston-Galveston Area Council, and the U.S.-Mexico Chamber of Commerce all also endorsed the privately-developed proposal. Congressman Cuellar is in Texas this week meeting with constituents across the district, including Atascosa, Bexar, Webb, Zapata and Starr County.
04.10.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today dedicated the Zapata Veterans Post Office at a ceremony with local officials, veterans and the Zapata community. Congressman Cuellar presents a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol to the Zapata Veterans Post Office during a dedication ceremony in Zapata on Monday. Pictured are members of the American Legion Post 486 of Zapata, A. L. Benavides Elementary School, Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Zapata County Veterans Service Officer Manuel Uribe, Zapata County Commissioner Precinct 2 Olga M. Elizondo, Zapata County Commissioner Precinct 4 Norberto Garza, Zapata County Tax Assessor-Collector Luis Lauro Gonzalez, Zapata Postmaster Tina Ramirez and Zapata County Commissioner Precinct 1 Jose Paco Mendoza. In December 2016, President Obama signed H.R. 5591, a bill Congressman Cuellar authored to rename the post office located at 810 North U.S. Highway 83 in Zapata, Texas, as the “Zapata Veterans Post Office.” The bill has previously passed in both the House and Senate. A press conference will be held in Zapata at a future date. “Zapata has many proud men and women who have honorably served our country. I introduced this bill to rename the post office to honor their heroism and defense of our great country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The six Treviño brothers of Zapata, all World War II veterans, are a great example of Zapata’s brave veterans. Teodoro, Leopoldo, Antonio, Anselmo, Filberto Jr., and Jose Manuel Treviño performed many acts of bravery, including taking down enemy plans and protecting soldiers by using their own bodies as shields. “My mother was born in Zapata, and having a long history of serving our country is one of the many reasons why we’re proud to call Zapata home. I thank Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell for and the Veterans Services Office in Zapata for their tirelessly work to provide support to our local veterans.” In September, Rep. Cuellar spoke in favor of H.R. 5591. View video here: https://youtu.be/9IbFLfT4n6o
04.07.2017	Following the U.S. airstrikes in Syria in response to Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons attack on his own people, Defense Appropriations member Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) wrote: “Bashar al-Assad's chemical weapons attack on Syrian civilians is an absolute atrocity. Like all Americans, I was horrified by the images of innocent children among the victims. The United States has a responsibility to condemn these actions in the strongest terms, and to hold the perpetrators responsible within the scope of international law. President Trump's decision to attack an airfield held by Assad's forces, in a major reversal from his previous positions, appears to be a proportional response within that framework. If he plans to escalate our military involvement, however, he must come to Congress for a specific Authorization for Use of Military Force. Our troops and their families deserve an open debate and clear objectives before we put them in harm's way. Unfortunately, this chemical attack is just an escalation of years of horrific violence, endured by the Syrian people at Assad's hands with Russia's complicity. President Trump says he was moved to order airstrikes by compassion for civilian victims. I hope this compassion also inspires him to reconsider his administration's troubling relationship to the Russian government. America has an opportunity to ease human suffering and stand up for what is right; President Trump has an opportunity to lead that effort, if he is willing to take it.”
04.04.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) hosted Congressman Braulio Guerra and Congresswoman Nora Liliana Oropeza of Mexico for a meeting to discuss U.S.-Mexico relations and border issues. Congressman Guerra is well-known for climbing over the fence dividing the Tijuana, Mexico from San Diego, California in March 2017, to call attention to the limitations of that type of border security measure. Congressman Cuellar has been a vocal critic of President Trump’s proposal to build a wall or fence along the border. As a member of the Homeland Security subcommittee of Appropriations, he has fought for more efficient and effective methods of border security, including surveillance technology and ground personnel. Congressman Cuellar frequently meets with Mexican officials to discuss matters of mutual interest, including security, international trade, and shared environmental issues like water quality. For example, on March 29, 2017, he met with the new Ambassador of Mexico to the United States, Geronimo Gutierrez.
03.31.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) – Rural Development, today announced over $2.2 million in funding to the Encinal Water Supply Corporation to build new water lines and improve existing water services for local residents. Congressman Cuellar helped secure a USDA Rural Development loan for $1,300,000 and a USDA Rural Development grant for $973,000 for the Encinal Water Supply Corporation under the agency’s Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant Program. The total amount of federal funding is $2,303,000 and will be used to replace older and smaller existing water main lines as well as fire hydrants and will connect all water services to new and larger water lines in street right of ways of the city. Congressman Henry Cuellar presents a check for $2,303,000 from the U.S. Department of Agriculture – Rural Development to the Encinal Water Supply Corporation on Friday, March 31. The federal funds will be used for water infrastructure projects in Encinal, Texas. Pictured from left to right are: Cesario Vela, Community Unlimited; Guadalupe Valdez, Area Director, USDA Rural Development; Betty Soto, USDA Area Specialist; Micheal Canales, Community Programs Director, USDA Rural Development; Anita Rodriguez, Board President, Encinal Water Supply Corporation (EWSC); Congressman Henry Cuellar, Antonio Nieto, EWSC Board Vice President; City of Encinal Mayor Sylvano Sanchez; Victoriano Casas, ESWC Consulting Manager; and Raul Garcia, Engineer, Garcia & Wright LLC Engineer. “Today’s $2.2 million federal investment into Encinal’s water infrastructure will not only help residents have better water services, but it will also help for the continuous growth of our great community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank Daniel Torres, Acting State Director of USDA Rural Development, and the Encinal Water Supply Corporation for their help in securing these funds to further develop Encinal’ s water infrastructure.” “Having safe and reliable water and waste disposal services is vital to the health of rural communities,” said Daniel Torres, USDA Rural Development Texas Acting State Director. “Rural Development is pleased to offer funding to improve water services for Encinal Water Supply Corporation.” In May 2015, the Encinal Water Supply Corporation received $30,000 in federal funds to complete a Preliminary Engineering Report and Environmental report, which was a requirement for the USDA Rural Development loan and grant application. More about the current USDA RD funding The Rural Development funds totaling $2,303,000 will be used to replace old, small, existing, and deteriorated water lines with 6" and 8" water mains; replace water valves; adding and replacing fire hydrants; connecting all water services to new water lines in the street right of ways. Loops would be created within the distribution system which would help to balance the pressures throughout the system as required by Texas commission on Environmental Quality. An 8" water transmission main will be constructed along the east side of I-35, which would provide a water main loop east of I-35. Encinal WSC serves the City of Encinal and the surrounding area with a population of approximately 728.
03.30.2017	This week, a draft letter (attached) from the administration to Congressional leaders, announcing President Trump’s intention to renegotiate NAFTA, circulated on Capitol Hill. On the campaign trail, President Trump repeatedly claimed he would eliminate NAFTA when he took office. This marks a departure from the position. In response, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said: “I’ve been saying all along that we should update NAFTA for the 21st century. I’m glad President Trump has backed down from his campaign rhetoric about eliminating the trade deal entirely, because it has been good for Texas businesses and the entire American economy. This letter that is circulating doesn’t have a lot of specifics yet. It’s declaring an intent to renegotiate, and some general positive goals. I am open-minded and ready to dive into the details. However, there are some concerning provisions in this letter. Currently, NAFTA member countries can’t put tariffs on goods imported from other members. This letter suggests creating a way to apply temporary tariffs in some circumstances. I am wary that such a provision may be a backdoor way to limit our international trade relationships and risk American jobs. Just yesterday I met with the Mexican Ambassador to the United States. We discussed how to improve trade and security together. I assure my constituents that I will continue to follow this issue closely, to protect the international trade that supports millions of Texas jobs.”
03.27.2017	In response to the latest developments regarding Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election, including former Vice President Dick Cheney’s recent statements, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said: “It’s clearly time for an independent, non-partisan investigation into the ties between Russia and Trump administration officials, before and after the 2016 election. The Russian government is no friend of the United States. Under Putin’s leadership, it stole Crimea from Ukraine, assassinates journalists, and openly seeks to weaken our nation. We already know Russia hacked President Trump’s opponents to help him with the election. We know senior officials close to the President had personal and financial dealings with Russian government officials, including intelligence agents. New revelations emerge almost weekly. What do we still not know? The American people deserve transparency, not more excuses. An independent investigation is the best way to de-politicize the process and find the answers our people deserve.” The unclassified portion of a January 2017 report from the intelligence community on the matter: https://www.dni.gov/files/documents/ICA_2017_01.pdf
03.24.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) welcomed the news that the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives chose to withdraw the proposed health care plan known as the American Health Care Act (AHCA). “I opposed the Republican health care plan from the beginning, because it is financially irresponsible and morally unacceptable. Then, in late-night sessions and back room deals, some House Republicans snuck in changes to make a bad plan even worse. The Republican plan would have: · Stripped health care from 24 million Americans; · Reduced coverage for everyone else by cutting benefits for preventive care, cancer screenings, prescription drugs, and emergency room visits; · Charged families to pay higher premiums and deductibles for the care they have left; · Forced an “age tax” on Americans 50-64, who will pay five times more than younger people; · Destroyed Medicaid as we know it, cutting more than $800 billion from care for the disabled and the desperately poor, including children; and · Stolen from Medicare by cutting the Medicare Trust Fund seniors depend on. Earlier this week, I held a telephone town hall meeting with members of my district, to hear their concerns about health care. One constituent, a breast cancer survivor, shared her story. She is alive today because a cancer screening found a tumor. But the Republican plan will take preventive care like cancer screenings away from many Americans, including some on employer-sponsored plans. She wondered if her neighbors and friends would die from treatable cancers, without access to those life-saving screenings. I welcome this victory because of constituents like her.” Groups from across the political spectrum, along with all the major medical organizations, opposed the bill, including: · AARP, the American Association of Retired People · AMA, the American Medical Association · The American Nurses Association · The National Physicians Alliance · The American Academy of Pediatrics · The American College of Physicians · Club for Growth (conservative) · Americans for Prosperity (conservative) · Heritage Action (conservative) · Center for American Progress (liberal)
03.22.2017	“An attack on Parliament is an attack on the very principle of representative democracy. As a legislator, I stand in solidarity with my counterparts in the United Kingdom. My thoughts are with the injured, the dead, and their families. I pray for the safety of the law enforcement officers responding to this tragedy as they secure the area and investigate.”
03.22.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) expressed his concern about President Trump’s budget cuts to Texas infrastructure, education, agriculture, business, and other vital programs: “The people of Texas’ 28th district will suffer if President Trump’s budget cuts are forced through Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. For example, in Webb County alone, students at Texas A&M International, Laredo Community College, and Laredo Beauty College will lose nearly a million dollars in grants that help pay tuition. As billions of dollars are suddenly ripped away from Texas, jobs and even entire industries will be at risk. When companies close down and citizens look for new employment, they’ll find that President Trump eliminated job re-training and placement programs. If they try to start their own businesses instead, they’ll find that President Trump cut the loan and investment programs entrepreneurs need. If they fall into homelessness, they’ll find President Trump ended the programs to help shelter and feed their children. If they are in a rural area, those children may get sick from untreated sewage and dangerous drinking water, since President Trump cut support for rural utilities. And they will struggle to break out of poverty through education, as President Trump cut funding for before- and after-school programs, and for college tuition assistance. President Trump says he wants to make America great again. But this future doesn’t seem like America to me.” Attached is a document listing anticipated cuts specific to Webb County and Laredo. Trump’s budget cuts more than $18 million from Texas’ homeland security, more than $550 million from our economic and business programs, and more than $225.8 million from our local education. Republican leaders are also criticizing President Trump’s budget. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY), the former Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement: “many of the reductions and eliminations proposed in the President’s skinny budget are draconian, careless and counterproductive.” Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, current Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, also issued a statement reminding the public that Congress, not the President, has the power of the purse. Please see attached document for cuts specific to Laredo and Webb County. Below, we have shared a breakdown of some expected cuts to Texas*. Flexible Funds Cities and Counties Need The Community Development Block Grant program, which annually provides flexible funds to Texas communities, is being eliminated. In 2016, that program provided: · $11,457,418 to San Antonio, TX · $2,180,749 to Bexar County, TX · $3,436,805 to Laredo, TX · $904,240 to Mission, TX · $7,226,312 to Hidalgo County, TX More than $18 billion in cuts to national security programs in Texas · -$5,374,500 from the State Homeland Security Program, which defends our whole state from terrorism · -$9,748,750 from the Urban Area Security Initiative, which specifically helps secure high-threat, high-density urban areas that are more vulnerable to terrorism · -$2,661,957 from the Port Security Grant Program · -$304,528 from the Transit Security Grant Program, which secures our transportation infrastructure More than $21.5 million from programs to help working class and poor families · -$9,672,433 from the Emergency Food and Shelter Board Program, which helps homeless families get temporary food and shelter · -$31,196,205 from the Legal Services Corporation, which provides attorneys to people who can’t afford them, including more than 6,000 veterans in Texas last year More than $550 million from programs for jobs, our economy, and businesses · -$181,018 from job training programs, which last year helped more than 500,000 Texans prepare for jobs in the new economy · -$6,700,881 from the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which helps small and medium sized manufacturing businesses in Texas to become more globally competitive, and which last year led to $269,142,842 in new sales and more than 2,700 new jobs · -$14,917,940 from the Economic Development Program, which created or preserved an estimated 2,312 Texas jobs this year · The entire budget of our Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI), which invested $258.5 million in Texas small businesses and communities in 2016 More than $225.8 million from education · -$103,166,330 from before-school and after-school programs, which 103,166 Texas children will lose access to in 2018 under the cuts · -$91,059,376 from Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, which helped 67,489 Texas students afford college in 2015-2016 · -$31,620,577 from arts and humanities education Rural programs entirely eliminated · The Essential Air Service, which helps small airports in remote rural areas stay open, and which serves 3,761 Texas passengers per year · The USDA rural water and waste program, which treats sewage and cleans drinking water in rural areas. Texas communities got $97,047,155 in 2016. · Rural Utilities Service Grants, which provided about $14,000,000 in grants to Texas in 2015 Clean water on the border endangered · Complete elimination of the EPA’s State and Tribal Assistance Grants to the U.S.-Mexico border, which supports clean drinking water, wastewater treatment, and other environmental programs necessary for health and safety. Border communities (including TX and other border states) relied on $10 million of these funds last year. *Data primarily from the Committee on Appropriations – Democrats analysis. PDF provided with this release. All figures are approximate. ###
03.21.2017	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) with the Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-growth policies in the second session of the 114th Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has bestowed this award to Congressman Cuellar 10 times since he entered the United States Congress in 2005. Suzanne Clark, Senior Executive Vice President of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, presenting the Spirit of Enterprise award to Congressman Cuellar “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud Congressman Cuellar for his commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s annual scorecard, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the second session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 8 Senate votes and 14 House votes related to access to capital for small businesses, ensuring our workforce has the skills necessary for the jobs of tomorrow, and helping American manufacturers compete in a global economy. In addition, votes in support of building our national water infrastructure system, protecting intellectual property, and updating energy policy also factored into scoring. On March 16, 2017, Congressman Cuellar spoke to the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, which is affiliated with the national Chamber organization, during their legislative summit in Washington, DC. At that event, he said, “I know that what businesses want most from government is stability and predictability. Right now, what you’re getting is change and uncertainty. But I will continue to do my best to support you, as a legislator and a member of the Appropriations Committee.” This is the 29th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ###
03.20.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) expressed his concern about President Trump’s budget cuts to Texas infrastructure, education, agriculture, business, and other vital programs: “The people of Texas’ 28th district will suffer if President Trump’s budget cuts are forced through Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. In Bexar County alone, we will be losing tens of millions of dollars annually. For example, 17 local organizations that provide food or shelter for homeless families, and 7 local companies and colleges that do medical research, will face severe cuts. As billions of dollars are suddenly ripped away from Texas, jobs and even entire industries will be at risk. When companies close down and citizens look for new employment, they’ll find that President Trump eliminated job re-training and placement programs. If they try to start their own businesses instead, they’ll find that President Trump cut the loan and investment programs entrepreneurs need. If they fall into homelessness, they’ll find President Trump ended the programs to help shelter and feed their children. If they are in a rural area, those children may get sick from untreated sewage and dangerous drinking water, since President Trump cut support for rural utilities. And they will struggle to break out of poverty through education, as President Trump cut funding for before- and after-school programs, and for college tuition assistance. President Trump says he wants to make America great again. But this future doesn’t seem like America to me.” Attached is a document listing anticipated cuts specific to Bexar County and San Antonio. Trump’s budget cuts more than $18 million from Texas’ homeland security, more than $550 million from our economic and business programs, and more than $225.8 million from our local education. Republican leaders are also criticizing President Trump’s budget. Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY), the former Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement: “many of the reductions and eliminations proposed in the President’s skinny budget are draconian, careless and counterproductive.” Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, current Chairman of the Appropriations Committee, also issued a statement reminding the public that Congress, not the President, has the power of the purse. Please see attached document for cuts specific to San Antonio and Bexar County. Below, we have shared a breakdown of some expected cuts to Texas*. Flexible Funds Cities and Counties Need The Community Development Block Grant program, which annually provides flexible funds to Texas communities, is being eliminated. In 2016, that program provided: · $11,457,418 to San Antonio, TX · $2,180,749 to Bexar County, TX · $3,436,805 to Laredo, TX · $904,240 to Mission, TX · $7,226,312 to Hidalgo County, TX More than $18 billion in cuts to national security programs in Texas · -$5,374,500 from the State Homeland Security Program, which defends our whole state from terrorism · -$9,748,750 from the Urban Area Security Initiative, which specifically helps secure high-threat, high-density urban areas that are more vulnerable to terrorism · -$2,661,957 from the Port Security Grant Program · -$304,528 from the Transit Security Grant Program, which secures our transportation infrastructure More than $21.5 million from programs to help working class and poor families · -$9,672,433 from the Emergency Food and Shelter Board Program, which helps homeless families get temporary food and shelter · -$31,196,205 from the Legal Services Corporation, which provides attorneys to people who can’t afford them, including more than 6,000 veterans in Texas last year More than $550 million from programs for jobs, our economy, and businesses · -$181,018 from job training programs, which last year helped more than 500,000 Texans prepare for jobs in the new economy · -$6,700,881 from the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which helps small and medium sized manufacturing businesses in Texas to become more globally competitive, and which last year led to $269,142,842 in new sales and more than 2,700 new jobs · -$14,917,940 from the Economic Development Program, which created or preserved an estimated 2,312 Texas jobs this year · The entire budget of our Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI), which invested $258.5 million in Texas small businesses and communities in 2016 More than $225.8 million from education · -$103,166,330 from before-school and after-school programs, which 103,166 Texas children will lose access to in 2018 under the cuts · -$91,059,376 from Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, which helped 67,489 Texas students afford college in 2015-2016 · -$31,620,577 from arts and humanities education Rural programs entirely eliminated · The Essential Air Service, which helps small airports in remote rural areas stay open, and which serves 3,761 Texas passengers per year · The USDA rural water and waste program, which treats sewage and cleans drinking water in rural areas. Texas communities got $97,047,155 in 2016. · Rural Utilities Service Grants, which provided about $14,000,000 in grants to Texas in 2015 Clean water on the border endangered · Complete elimination of the EPA’s State and Tribal Assistance Grants to the U.S.-Mexico border, which supports clean drinking water, wastewater treatment, and other environmental programs necessary for health and safety. Border communities (including TX and other border states) relied on $10 million of these funds last year. *Data primarily from the Committee on Appropriations – Democrats analysis. PDF provided with this release. All figures are approximate.
03.17.2017	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) made the following statement upon word that the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) will be detailing an Immigration Judge to Laredo, Texas. “I have been working to get Immigration Judge Teams into border communities, like Laredo, for years and I applaud EOIR for sending a temporary judge to Laredo,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will be working with EOIR and Immigration and Customs Enforcement to make that position in Laredo permanent and potentially add more. Currently, due in part to the lack of available judges, immigrants at the border are either detained for long periods of time or released into the United States with a promise to return at a later court date. Neither of those is good options, for the immigrants or the enforcement of our laws. More judges will help EOIR and ICE do their jobs, treat immigrants more fairly, and keep our country safer. ” On March 20th EOIR will be detailing Immigration Judges to five new locations, including Laredo. EOIR currently has an immigration backlog of over half a million cases. To help cut down on this caseload Congressman Cuellar was successful in adding funding for 55 new immigration judge teams in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act Congress passed in December of 2015. Congressman Cuellar also worked to add 25 immigration judges in the fiscal year 2017; however, the federal budget is currently operating under a Continuing Resolution of FY16 funding levels.
03.16.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) reacted to the President’s budget proposal, which takes $2.6 billion from needed programs to pay for a border wall: “The President’s proposed budget would be a disaster for Texas, and for the country,” he said. “He wants to take money from programs that Texans actually need, and use it to hire 20 new lawyers. Those lawyers’ entire jobs will be to take private property away from American landowners on the border, so the President can build his arbitrary border wall. Here in Texas, we take the concept of private property very seriously. We take pride in our land, which has often been passed down for generations. And Texans stand up for ourselves when the federal government tries to take what is ours. The wall will not make anyone safer. Homeland security experts agree that it will do more harm than good. Our border security is too important to sacrifice to a symbolic political gesture. To pay for his expensive, ineffective side project, he wants to cut funding to our education, rural water infrastructure, transportation infrastructure, and support for agriculture. If Republicans force this budget through Congress, it will immediately hurt the people of my district. Ironically, the first to feel the pain of his decisions will be the border communities a wall would supposedly protect.” Congressman Cuellar represents 280 miles of U.S.-Mexico border. He serves on the Homeland Security and Defense subcommittees of the Appropriations Committee, and is a supporter of “law and order on the border.” He included a provision increasing funding for National Guard surveillance of the border in the FY17 Defense Appropriations bill, which recently passed the House of Representatives.
03.16.2017	Hoy, el congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas Henry Cuéllar reaccionó al presupuesto presupuestario del Presidente Trump, lo cual toma $2.6 mil millones de los programas de servicio público para pagar un muro fronterizo: "El presupuesto que quiere el Presidente sería un desastre para Texas y para el país", dijo el congresista Cuéllar. "Él quiere tomar dinero de los programas que los texanos realmente necesitan, y utilizarlo para contratar a 20 nuevos abogados. El trabajo de esos abogados será quitar la propiedad privada de los terratenientes estadounidenses en la frontera, para que el Presidente pueda construir su muro fronterizo arbitrario. “Aquí en Texas, tomamos muy en serio el concepto de propiedad privada. Nos enorgullecemos de nuestra herencia y nuestro terreno, que a menudo ha sido heredado por generaciones. Y nosotros texanos nos defendemos unos al otro cuando el gobierno federal trata de tomar lo que es nuestro. “El muro no nos va hacer más seguros. Los expertos el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional (DHS) coinciden en que un muro hará más daño que bien. Nuestra seguridad fronteriza es demasiado importante para sacrificar un gesto político simbólico. “Para pagar su costoso e ineficaz proyecto paralelo, el Presidente quiere recortar fondos a nuestra educación, infraestructura de agua rural, infraestructura de transporte y apoyo a la agricultura. Si los republicanos obligan a este presupuesto a través del Congreso, afectará inmediatamente a la gente de mi distrito. Irónicamente, los primeros en sentir el dolor de sus decisiones serán las comunidades fronterizas, que un muro supuestamente protegería”. El congresista Cuéllar representa 280 millas de la frontera entre Estados Unidos y México. Sirve en los subcomités de Seguridad Interior y Defensa del Comité de Asignaciones y apoya "la ley y el orden en la frontera". Incluyó una provisión para aumentar la financiación de la vigilancia de la Guardia Nacional de la frontera en el proyecto de Ley de Defensa Aprobado por la Cámara de Representantes.
03.16.2017	This afternoon, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) met with President Luis Guillermo Solis of Costa Rica to discuss issues of migration, drug trafficking, and international cooperation. “I want to thank President Solis and the delegation for doing me the honor of visiting my office in Washington,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Costa Rica is an important U.S. partner, and I am always glad to meet with their President and representatives on issues of mutual interest.” President Solis and Congressman Cuellar were joined by a delegation from Costa Rica, including Dr. Roman Macaya, Ambassador to the United States; Manuel González, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Sergio Alfaro, Minister of the Presidency; and Alexander Mora, Minister of Foreign Trade. In December 2015, Congressman Cuellar participated in a Congressional Delegation to Costa Rica to discuss the Cuban migrant crisis at that time, among other issues. Later today, Congressman Cuellar will also meet with Mexican Ambassador Gerónimo Gutiérrez.
03.13.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) reacted to the Congressional Budget Office report that showed the negative impacts of the health care plan proposed by Congressional Republicans. The analysis indicates 14 million people could lose their health insurance coverage under the Republican plan, and Medicaid would be cut $880 billion, by 2018. "Despite the President saying nobody would lose access to health care on his watch, the CBO report shows that the Republican health care plan will make Americans pay more for less coverage,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “By 2018, it will strip insurance from 14 million people, and cut Medicaid by hundreds of billions of dollars. It leaves children, seniors, and people with disabilities vulnerable. Instead of shredding our health care system, we should be improving it. This bill is unacceptable to working Americans.” Read the full CBO analysis for further disturbing details of the GOP health plan’s failures: http://static.politico.com/eb/9c/e933fe474128a624d2a46157a7ef/cbo-report-ahca.pdf
03.13.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has issued the following statement regarding the passing of former U.S. Representative Eligio “Kika” de la Garza: “I am saddened by the news that former Congressman Eligio ‘Kika’ de la Garza II has passed away. Coming from the border in South Texas, Kika brought a new worldview to Congress and was a pioneer that lead the way for more Hispanics to fully participate in our nation’s legislative process. “Kika was a dear friend of mine, and I speak for many when I say that Texas has lost a great leader today. I served on the House Committee of Agriculture for eight years, and I would often look up to the great portrait of former Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Kika de la Garza, as an example of someone who has given back so much to the agricultural communities across the nation. This afternoon, I spoke with his wife, Lucille, to express my sincerest condolences to her and her family in this difficult moment.”
03.08.2017	This afternoon, the full U.S. House of Representatives passed a Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2017 that, thanks to Rep. Henry Cuellar, included instructions for the military to seek STEM talent among Hispanic and other minority students. He successfully allocated more than $35 million for the Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions (HBCU/MI) Program. He also encouraged the military to improve the pipeline of minority Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) students into critical national security jobs, through existing programs and the awarding of competitive funding. “Our military is strongest when it can recruit from a broad talent pool that reflects our whole diverse society,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “We need STEM talent to tackle 21st century security challenges, and students in largely Hispanic communities like my district are ready to fill those jobs – if given the chance to succeed. I fought to include this funding and language in the bill because it is in the best interest of both our national security and our local students.” The Congressman also secured other major national security allocations in the final bill, including funding for National Guard programs to conduct surveillance over the southern border and fight international drug trafficking.
03.08.2017	This afternoon, the full U.S. House of Representatives passed a Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2017 with several key portions from Rep. Henry Cuellar. He supported National Guard programs to fight drug trafficking, conduct surveillance on the southern border, and collaborate with foreign militaries. “National security issues touch my border district directly,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “That’s why I fought to fund National Guard programs that provide surveillance on the border, and fight transnational threats like drug trafficking.” “Defense is a bipartisan issue, and our subcommittee was able to find common ground defending national security and supporting our troops,” he continued. “It’s also our duty to spend taxpayer money responsibly. These smart budget choices will support our troops and improve national security.” Major items advanced by Rep. Cuellar include: • $234 million for the National Guard Counterdrug Program, which fights drug trafficking • $8 million for the National Guard State Partnership, a more than 20-year program allowing our National Guardsmen to teach and learn from their international counterparts • $19,000,000 for Operation Phalanx, a National Guard program which conducts aerial surveillance on our southern border The bill provides $577.9 billion in total, which is $5.2 billion more than the enacted level for Fiscal Year 2016. It fully funds a 2.1% pay raise for members of the military, and increases Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) funding by $3.2 billion over current levels. It also allocates $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research.
03.07.2017	Today, the Democratic Blue Dog Coalition responded to the health care replacement plan proposed by House Republicans: “Yesterday, House Republicans released their bill text for partial repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act. Tomorrow, two House committees will consider this legislation even though the Congressional Budget Office has not provided a score to inform the Members of the committees, or the public at large, about how much the bill will cost or how many people will (or won’t) have health insurance under the new proposal. This makes simple consideration of the merits of this proposal nearly impossible. As members committed to fiscal responsibility and accountability in government, the Blue Dog Coalition opposes proceeding with a markup before a CBO score is released.” The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, and are committed to working across the aisle to find solutions to the biggest issues facing the United States. Visit the Blue Dog website at http://bluedogcaucus-costa.house.gov/ learn more.
02.28.2017	In response to President Trump’s remarks at the joint session of Congress, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said, “I live on the border. I'm raising my family there. The President’s statements show he does not understand it. Despite rumors and exaggerations, our border communities are safe and thriving. Just ask business leaders. Merchants drive more than two million commercial trucks through Laredo’s ports each year, part of the billions of dollars in U.S.-Mexico trade that drive our economy. Or ask the FBI. Their crime statistics show border Texas cities are safer than the average American metropolitan area. A border fence is a 14th century solution to a 21st century challenge. Fulfilling the requests of border patrol commanders on the ground for technology and personnel would be far more effective. President Trump’s insistence on building a wall is more about looking tough than actually securing our homeland or supporting our law enforcement. Most of our southern border is private property, and we Texans are known to stand up for our rights. Family ranches, passed down through generations, cover both sides of an invisible border, and cattle move between countries to graze and seek water. Land owners will not easily submit to federal demands to disrupt this way of life. Anyone who tries to force them should prepare for years of costly lawsuits, at taxpayer expense.” Rep. Cuellar’s district includes 280 miles of US-Mexico border.
02.28.2017	In response to President Trump’s remarks at the joint session of Congress, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said, “We do need to enforce our laws, and criminals should be deported. However, undocumented immigrants are not a major threat to our nation. The number of undocumented people in the U.S. has fallen in the last decade, and they are no more likely to commit crimes here than people with legal status. We should not waste law enforcement time and tear apart peaceful communities, deporting military families or DACA recipients. We need to practice common sense and common decency.”
02.28.2017	In response to President Trump’s remarks at the joint session of Congress, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) said, “Health care must be affordable and accessible to all Americans. The Affordable Care Act has gotten us a long way toward that goal, and the disasters predicted by its opponents never materialized. My colleagues and I need to focus on fixing its problems, not stripping health care from millions of families.”
02.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) will host eighth-grade student Rylan Wagner, 13, from Lytle Junior High School in Lytle, Texas, to see President Donald J. Trump’s first State of the Union Address during a joint session of Congress on Tuesday, February 28 at 8 p.m. CST at the House Chamber at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. Rylan competed in a school-wide essay contest at Lytle Junior High School and was selected from his peers to attend President Trump’s address next week at our nation’s capital. “I believe that education is the great equalizer, which is why I work with schools in my district to provide our students with the resources and experiences needed to take them further in life,” said Congressman Cuellar. “On Tuesday, Rylan will be my guest during President Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress. He’ll be there with all our country’s leaders. The next day, my staff will guide him and his father on a tour of our nation’s capital to see historical monuments and the White House. This unique opportunity helps outstanding students like Rylan realize that he can accomplish his dreams so long as he dedicates himself to his studies and goals.” Congressman Cuellar will cover airfare and hotel accommodations for Rylan and a parent . “I feel very honored to be able to attend President Trump’s address to the joint session of Congress next week with Congressman Cuellar,” Rylan said. “I have never been to D.C., but I am looking forward to it. I hope I will be able to learn more about what happens in these meetings, and can get a greater understanding of what keeps our country running.” Rylan enjoys playing football, hunting and the outdoors. His favorite school subjects are math, athletics and agriculture. He wants to either become an businessman or a specialist doctor when he grows up. Rylan’s parents, Reagan and Deborah Wagner, are also excited about this opportunity for their son. “Deborah and I are grateful for the opportunity extended by Congressman Cuellar,” said Reagan Wagner. The Junior High held a contest that required both a written essay and an interview. He was chosen from a great group of peers whom competed for this trip. We are hopeful he will gain awareness of the governmental offices and understand the importance of the branches of government. This trip will also allow him to see the history of our nation and reflect on the great leaders of the past. We are thankful for Congressman Cuellar’s office team for helping set up those additional opportunities.” Lytle Junior High School eighth-grader Rylan L. Wagner competed in a school-wide essay contest and has been chosen to attend President Donald J. Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress with Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on February 28 in Washington, D.C.
02.24.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) hosted the 2017 STEM Alliance for middle and high school students in Laredo and Zapata on February 20, 23 & 24 at TAMIU. The annual event is designed to encourage local students to consider careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields; as Hispanics and women are currently underrepresented in those areas. The 2017 STEM Alliance also included a career fair with presentations from companies, universities and government agencies and two keynote speakers: Dr. Jesus Segovia, post-doctoral fellow at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio (UTHSCSA), and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Astronaut and Engineer Donald Roy Pettit. Sixth-grade students build Mars rover replica robots with engineers from Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio during the 2017 STEM Alliance at TAMIU Friday. A local middle school student learns flight simulation and mechanics from an engineering student at TAMIU during the 2017 STEM Alliance Friday. A local high school student learns flight simulation and mechanics from an engineering student and professor at TAMIU during the 2017 STEM Alliance Thursday. NASA Astronaut and engineer, Dr. Don Pettit, speaks to 300 middle school students from Laredo and Zapata about his work at NASA and time in space during the 2017 STEM Alliance Friday. About NASA Astronaut and Engineer, Dr. Donald Pettit Donald R. Pettit was selected by NASA in 1996. The Silverton, Oregon native holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering from Oregon State University and a Doctorate in Chemical Engineering from the University of Arizona. Prior to becoming an astronaut, he worked as a staff scientist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico. A veteran of three spaceflights, Pettit served as NASA Science Officer for Expedition 6 in 2003, operated the robotic arm for STS-126 in 2008 and served as a Flight Engineer for Expedition 30/31 in 2012, where he lived aboard the International Space Station for more than 6 months. Download Astronaut Pettit’s full NASA biography and photo here: https://www.nasa.gov/astronauts/biographies/donald-r-pettit Organizations that participated in the 2017 STEM Alliance include: TAMIU, The University of Texas at San Antonio Health Science Center-Regional, UTSA Department of Biology, Area Health Education Center, National Weather Service, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, NASA, U.S. Marines, NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Lackland Air Force Base, Wells Fargo, Texas Academy of International and STEM Studies, Texas Department of Public Safety Crime Laboratory, Robotics Engineering Machine Shop, IBC Bank and others.
02.23.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) responded to news reports that the President’s hiring freeze has led to cuts in daycare programs on military installations: “As a member of the Appropriations subcommittee on Defense, I am watching closely for the impacts of the President’s government hiring freeze on our military readiness. I am concerned by recent announcements that some U.S. Army installations, at home and abroad, must now cut services like daycare for military families. These are the sort of unintended consequences that the President should have considered before taking such an extreme measure, without input from Congress.”
02.23.2017	"Our military families are examples of resilience and sacrifice for all of us to follow. Out of respect for their service, and to preserve military readiness, until recently we protected them regardless of immigration status through the Parole in Place program, by giving them a chance to apply for a green card while living in the United States. It's common decency and common sense: how could a soldier, sailor, airman, or Marine focus on their duty, when their spouse or child could be deported at any time? But this President's rushed and ill-considered Executive Orders may have, intentionally or inadvertently, removed those protections. I call on the President to formally clarify that his administration will not take these protections from the families of our troops. If he will not, then just like when he attacked Gold Star parents during his campaign, he has put political showmanship ahead of our servicemembers and their families. That's against American values and dangerous to our national security."
02.17.2017	Congressman Cuellar responded to reports of an internal Department of Homeland Security memo exploring the possibility of using National Guard troops as a domestic deportation force: “If accurate, this draft proposal by Secretary Kelly, as reported by the Associated Press, is unacceptable. First, this is part of an alarming pattern from President Trump and his Cabinet, of disrespect for American values and institutions like posse comitatus. Second, undocumented immigrants are not a major threat to our nation. Law enforcement is perfectly capable of handling the issue, with proper resources. The number of undocumented people in the U.S. has fallen in the last decade, and they are no more likely to commit crimes here than people with legal status. The President’s hysteria about them does not seem to be rooted in logic. Third, this is not what our National Guard members signed up to do. When they took their oaths, they put their liberty in our hands. We cannot put them in such a position. I hope the governors of the 11 states named in the memo will choose not to order the men and women under their command to participate in an illegal and un-American domestic deportation force.”
02.15.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) called on his colleagues to investigate ties between the Russian government and the Trump administration: “Congress has a duty to defend our national security, and to hold the Executive Branch accountable. My colleagues must open an immediate investigation into the Trump administration’s relationships to Russia and the Kremlin, before and after the recent election. The Russian government is no friend of Americans. Just yesterday, they violated their treaty with the United States by launching cruise missiles, and deployed a spy ship off our coast. They prop up the dictator Assad and target civilians in Syria, undermining international efforts to seek peace and fight the Islamic State. Putin’s regime stole Crimea from Ukraine, assassinates journalists, and openly seeks to weaken our nation. Russia hacked President Trump’s opponents to help him with the election. Before the Inauguration, and allegedly even before the election, Michael Flynn undermined Congress and the sitting U.S. President in secret phone calls with the Russian Ambassador. What did the President know, and when? Campaign aides were in regular contact with Russian intelligence. Top White House officials have close ties to the Kremlin. And these are just the confirmed, unclassified facts. Clearly, an investigation is needed to uncover the extent of Putin’s influence in our White House and on our elections.”
02.14.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today provided an update on the Gateway to the Americas International Bridge 1 renovation project in Laredo: “I recently spoke with GSA about the ongoing construction and renovation of the Gateway to the Americas International Bridge 1 in Laredo. The public should know the project is going smoothly, but GSA encountered some structural issues from the original facility that will push the estimated completion date by four months. The new estimated date of completion for the renovation project for Bridge 1 is December 2017. Both Mexico-bound traffic, and U.S. and Mexico-bound pedestrian traffic, remain operational and without an effect on wait times at Bridge 1. However, U.S.-bound vehicular traffic from Mexico will still be rerouted to the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge 2 until completion of Bridge 1 this December. I thank GSA for their hard work and help on this project, as well as Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares and our counterparts in Mexico for our combined efforts to update and improve our international bridge system in Laredo.” Read more about the renovation projects for Laredo Bridge 1 and 2: /news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=399393
02.10.2017	This afternoon, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the allocation of $560,000 in federal funding to fight the Zika virus on the border. Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) announces $560,000 in federal funds to the City of Laredo Thursday to help with Zika prevention and management. Pictured from left to right are Robert Eads, City of Laredo Asst. City Manager; Dr. Hector Gonzalez, City of Laredo Health Department Director; Cynthia Collazo, Deputy City Manager; Pete Saenz, Laredo Mayor; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Jesus Olivares, Laredo City Manager; and Julia Perales of the City of Laredo Health Department. “I fought for these federal funds, along with the City of Laredo, so our community can invest in proven prevention methods,” said Rep. Henry Cuellar. “Zika virus infections have been reported here in our border communities, so vigilance is more important than ever. Now, our local officials have the resources they need to protect Laredo and Zapata families. I thank the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Dr. John Hellerstedt, Commissioner of the Texas Department of State Health Services, for their help in securing these funds.” “When Federal, state and local authorities work together, we get results. This announcement today is evidence that Congressman Henry Cuellar is working hard for Laredo to get federal reinvestment dollars channeled into our city,” said Mayor Saenz. “And when Laredo goes to make its story known in Austin and Washington, D.C., there are people that hear us and take us into account. Recently, during our advocacy trip to Austin in January, we met with Commissioner John Hellerstedt of the Department of State Health Services about releasing these federal funds administered by the State; these monies will go a long way in assisting our Health Department to test for and prevent the spread of Zika.” “These funds will assist with local testing for Zika virus and other infectious diseases, mosquito control, disease surveillance and education,” said Dr. Hector F. Gonzalez, MD, MPH, Director of Health, City of Laredo Health Department. “It will also allow us to spend more time in prevention assuring that women access health care early to prevent infection during pregnancy and to prevent birth defects.” Congress provided 394 million to the CDC as part of the Zika supplemental funding bill. These funds were part of a $25 million federal allocation for Zika preparedness to the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS), about $10 million of which is flagged for local jurisdictions including 16 health departments. Those jurisdictions, including Laredo and Zapata County, were selected for their higher risk of Zika cases: mainly border, gulf coast, and urban areas. The City of Laredo will also conduct mosquito control operations in Zapata County with these funds. Rep. Cuellar has worked to protect the people of his district from Zika since the epidemic began. In April 2016, he hosted an international meeting at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) to discuss Zika prevention in Texas, bringing together experts from American and Mexican academia, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Department of Homeland Security, medical centers, and Texas state government. In July 2016, in response to a request from Rep. Cuellar, the CDC established an office in Laredo and contracted a team of public health professionals to work on the border from Laredo to Brownsville, focusing on increasing surveillance, prevention, preparation and education to combat the Zika virus. ###
02.10.2017	This afternoon, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Filemon Vela (D-TX-34), and Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX-15) announced the allocation of $560,000 in federal funding to fight the Zika virus on the border. “I fought for these federal funds so our community can invest in proven prevention methods,” said Rep. Henry Cuellar. “Zika virus infections have been reported here in our border communities, so vigilance is more important than ever. Now, our local officials have the resources they need to protect Hidalgo families. I thank the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Dr. John Hellerstedt, Commissioner of the Texas Department of State Health Services, for their help in securing these funds.” "Zika is a serious threat to communities in South Texas, and I am glad state and federal officials recognize the importance of treating and preventing the transmission of the virus in the region," said Congressman Vicente Gonzalez. "This funding will provide the Hidalgo County Health Department with much-needed resources to expand its screening and support investigations of the virus. The funds will also enable the Department to educate the community through outreach efforts. I will continue to work with Congressmen Cuellar and Vela, who have also helped in securing these funds, to ensure that our communities are equipped to address any and all health risks." “The safety of our people is imperative in this fight against Zika,” said Rep. Filemon Vela. “I have met personally with Director Friedan of the CDC and Commissioner Hellerstadt of Texas DSHS to provide continued support and ensure that the $1.1 billion in funding that we passed in Congress is utilized efficiently and effectively.” Congress provided 394 million to the CDC as part of the Zika supplemental funding bill. These funds were part of a $25 million federal allocation for Zika preparedness to the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS), about $10 million of which is flagged for local jurisdictions including 16 health departments. Those jurisdictions, including Hidalgo County, were selected for their higher risk of Zika cases: mainly border, gulf coast, and urban areas. Laredo received another $560,000 as well. Rep. Cuellar has worked to protect the people of his district from Zika since the epidemic began. In April 2016, he hosted an international meeting at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) to discuss Zika prevention in Texas, bringing together experts from American and Mexican academia, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Department of Homeland Security, medical centers, and Texas state government. In July 2016, in response to a request from Rep. Cuellar, the CDC contracted a team of public health professionals to work with the City of Laredo Health Department and other health professionals from Laredo to Brownsville, focusing on increasing surveillance, prevention, preparation and education to combat the Zika virus. ###
02.07.2017	Late yesterday afternoon, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) introduced the North American Development Bank Improvement and General Capital Increase Authorization Act of 2017, co-sponsored by Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Rep. Al Green (D-TX), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), and Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX). This legislation provides the North American Development Bank (NADB) with needed funds to invest in clean drinking water, sewage treatment, and other essential projects on the U.S.-Mexico border. It would authorize funds that were appropriated in 2016, increasing the United States’ capital investment in NADB to match Mexico’s additional paid-in contribution of $225,000,000. It would also streamline NADB’s project approval process, fund limited port infrastructure and natural gas projects, and require reports to ensure NADB’s chosen projects provide good value to the region and taxpayers. “The North American Development Bank has been a fantastic investment for American taxpayers, and provides essential services on our southern border,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Clean drinking water, sewage and waste treatment are the kinds of basic projects we can’t afford to under-fund. They don’t just keep our communities clean – they keep us safe from disease. After 23 years, it is time to grow our contribution to meet demand, and match our Mexican partners. My bill will also improve the bank’s efficiency, and fund important port infrastructure and natural gas projects vital to the Texas economy.” Congressman Vicente Gonzalez said, “It is time that the U.S. honors our commitment to support NADBank's projects that bring water, clean energy, and sound infrastructure to in our region on both sides of the border. In 2014, the government of Mexico approved $1.5 billion in capital needed for NADBank’s infrastructure initiatives. Nearly three years later, the U.S. has failed to make a similar investment in the cross-border development agency. This legislation will help ensure that both nations are responsible for their fair share. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, which has direct jurisdiction over NADBank, I will work to shepherd this important legislation through the U.S. Congress.” Russ Jones, Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance, said, “We deeply appreciate Rep. Cuellar’s advocacy on behalf of the North American Development Bank. Our members from San Diego, California to Brownsville, Texas have long supported the NADB for the significant contribution it has made to the quality of life in the border region. In order for the Bank to continue its good work, including its efforts to improve traffic flows at our ports of entry, the institution needs access to levels of capital that reflect its important mission. We look forward to working with Rep. Cuellar and the bipartisan coalition of co-sponsors to advance the bill to passage.” NADB, established in 1994, treats about 468 millions of gallons of sewage and 1,550 tons of waste per day. These projects keep water, land, and air near the border clean and safe. On average, $1 in NADB financing results in $3 in infrastructure investment – and excellent return for all U.S. taxpayers. (See attached infographic.) The initial capital investment was $225,000,000 in paid-in capital each from the United States and Mexico. This would be the first additional injection of U.S. funds since 1994. Congressman Cuellar represents the 28th district of Texas, which includes nearly 280 miles of the U.S.-Mexico border.
02.02.2017	This week, a bipartisan congressional delegation of border representatives wrote a letter to Office of Head Start Acting Director Ann Linehan demanding that the headquarters of Teaching and Mentoring Communities (TMC) remain on the border. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Congressman Filemon Vela (D-TX-34), Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16), Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23) and Congressman Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX-15) all signed. The letter also requests clarification on TMC’s proposed expenditures in the 2017-2018 Head Start grant application, asking why the organization is serving fewer children than in previous years, and how it plans to improve. They request that federal funds not be used to relocate the headquarters away from the border community it has always served. “We have come together as border representatives to show concern for low-income children and families in our districts,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “TMC was founded on the border community of Laredo in 1971 and has grown from a mobile Migrant Head Start program into a national organization. The organization uses federal grant funds to serve low-income children, and the border has one of the highest percentages of low-income and disadvantaged children in the country. As a federal appropriator, it is my job to make sure federal taxpayer money is being used efficiently. Our letter to the Office of Head Start seeks answers on how TMC’s recent budget change requests will impact the children and communities they serve. Lastly, for the benefit of our communities on the border, we agree that since TMC was founded and has prospered on the border, its headquarters should remain in Laredo. Congressman Cuellar, a tireless advocate for border communities, has spoken out on the TMC relocation issue since it surfaced in the news in early 2017. Read the letter: /uploadedfiles/congressional_delegation_letter_-_office_head_start.pdf.
01.30.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has released the following statement regarding President Trump’s executive order on immigration: "The President’s Executive Order blocking specific refugees from entering the United States and stranding visa holder around the world goes against the values of our Democracy. It was done without the consent of the Congress and in such a broad way that it trapped legal residents and separated young children from their families. “As a law and order Democrat I believe we must adequately and extensively vet those who wish to enter the United States. And, as the son of immigrants, I know that legal immigration is essential to the United States' place in the world and honors our values as a society. Our Government has a responsibility to our citizens, legal residents, visitors and those seeking a better life and new opportunity in America. While we must have a strong vetting process in place we cannot exclude individuals based on religion. “I'm glad that Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kelly clarified Sunday night that Legal Permanent Resident's will not be negatively impacted by this order and they will follow all judicial rulings. The House recently passed a package designed to reel in executive branch rule-making to ensure that Congress—not the White House—is setting policy. I look forward to applying our oversight authority on this and other Executive Orders."
01.28.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Friday met with Mexican leaders, senators and businessmen in Mexico City to discuss the U.S.-Mexico relations and the importance of trade between the two countries. “During his first week on the job, President Trump has caused serious concerns for U.S.-Mexico relations with the announcement of his intent to build a giant border wall and tax all U.S. imports from Mexico,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The President’s idea of a wall is not only extremely costly for U.S. taxpayers, but greatly inefficient at border security. I believe there are more effective and efficient ways to secure our borders, such as increasing the use of technology that is currently deployed by the Department of Homeland Security, which includes unmanned aerial systems, aerostats, video surveillance systems and ground sensors; along with adding improvements to river access roads and increasing the number of Border Patrol agents on the ground. “As for taxing all U.S. imports from Mexico by as much as 20 percent, this proposal would actually hurt American consumers and businesses, not Mexico. As the representative for our country’s largest inland port, I understand just how important trade is for our local economies and for our country. Mexico is the United States’ second-largest export partner and third-largest import partner, according to the International Trade Administration (ITA). The total goods traded between our countries in 2015 was more than $531 billion. It’s also important to point out that Texas’ largest trading partner is Mexico, and much of our economies in Texas are dependent on trade. “I witnessed in my meetings yesterday in Mexico City that Mexicans are more united than ever and ready to negotiate on policies and trade that will benefit both countries. We must remember that Mexico is one of our closest allies and friends. I am committed to doing my part in Congress to develop effective and efficient solutions that will address border security and enhance our bilateral relationship with Mexico.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) meets with Mexican businessman Carlos Slim during a meeting on Friday with Mexican leaders and businessmen in Mexico City to discuss U.S.-Mexico relations. Mexican Senator Emilio Gamboa presents a recognition to Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Friday in Mexico City in appreciation of his work to build U.S.-Mexico relations.
01.26.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today presented Congressional Recognitions to the family of the late John McKeown, a U.S. Navy and Korean War veteran, and professional photographer Fidel C. Butch Ramirez, Jr., during a ceremony at Laredo City Hall Council Chambers. “Mr. McKeown was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and served in the Korean War, for which he received the National Defense Medal, the Korean Service Medal, the United Nations Service Medal and the China Service Medal,” said Congressman Cuellar. “After serving, Mr. McKeown moved to Laredo where he met his wife Jeannette, with whom he had two children: Carolyn J. McKeown and William Moser McKeown, and started a successful business called McKeown Customs Brokers Inc., which saw over forty years of success. Mr. McKeown was very involved in our local community and often volunteered his time to help fellow veterans and was the past president of the Laredo Animal Protective Society. Mr. McKeown passed away in November 2016 and is survived by his wife, Jeannette Moser McKeown, daughter Carolyn, and his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. For his accomplishments and sacrifice, I have chosen to honor him and his family with a Congressional Recognition that will forever be recorded in the official Congressional Record.” Congressman Cuellar honors the family of the late John McKeown, a U.S. Navy and Korean War veteran, and professional photographer Fidel “Butch” Ramirez during a ceremony at Laredo City Hall on Thursday. “Mr. Fidel C. ‘Butch’ Ramirez, Jr., was born and raised in Webb County where hunting and fishing were a regular past time for him,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Mr. Ramirez expanded his passion for the outdoors by turning to photography and has since captured some of the most beautiful and rare wildlife in South Texas. His photography has been featured on the cover of magazines on at least 25 separate occasions. Most recently, Mr. Ramirez’ photography of white-tailed deer in South Texas has been chosen through an extensive selection process to represent the crest of the U.S. Navy’s newest Virginia Class Attack Submarine, the U.S.S. Illinois, commissioned in Groton, Connecticut, on October 28, 2016 and was sponsored by former First Lady Michelle Obama. Today, I honor Mr. Ramirez’s accomplishments by presenting him with a Congressional Recognition and official entry into the Congressional Record.
01.25.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement regarding the executive orders President Trump signed today that would attempt to begin construction of a wall along the length of the U.S.-Mexico border: “Today, President Trump made the disappointing move of signing an executive order setting the wheels in motion for the potential construction of a wall along the length of the U.S.-Mexico border. This is a 14th Century solution to a 21st Century problem; and a decision I cannot support. “As a law and order Democrat and a longtime advocate for tighter border security, I believe there are more effective and efficient ways to secure our borders, such as technologies currently deployed by the Department of Homeland Security including unmanned aerial systems, aerostats, video surveillance systems, and ground sensors; along with adding improvements to river access roads and increasing the number of Border Patrol agents on the ground. “During his campaign, President Trump ran on the idea of having Mexico pay for the building of a wall. Now, he is calling for U.S. taxpayers to front the bill with a cost running into the tens of billions. “Through this order President Trump is missing an opportunity to build on a great relationship that the U.S. and Mexico currently enjoy. Instead, the building of a border wall will divide our two countries that have long-standing and mutually-beneficial cultural and economic ties. American success in a global economy depends on cooperation, not isolation. “I will continue to fight to make the concerns of border communities a priority for Congress and the country. I am committed to doing my part in Congress to develop effective and efficient solutions that will address immigration and secure our borders, while not adversely affecting the international trade and tourism that is vital to our economy.”
01.23.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement regarding the executive order President Trump signed today to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership: “Today, President Trump made the disappointing move of signing an executive order to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Agreement. Last year, I traveled to TPP countries with a bipartisan delegation to discuss, in-depth, the benefits TPP provides for our countries. The TPP has the potential to reshape the way the U.S. does business with our South American partners and with emerging markets in Asia. TPP, further, would give the United States a competitive edge with China, a country who is eager to take our place in leading the world economy. “The potential benefits of TPP cannot be understated. For starters, TPP would cut more than 18,000 taxes, in the form of tariffs, on American-made products. The agreement would boost U.S. exports by almost $124 billion by 2025 through streamlining customs procedures and by cutting red tape for international trade, helping our manufacturers, farmers and small businesses compete and win in today’s global markets. I represent countless communities in Texas who rely on international trade, and they stand to benefit tremendously from this agreement with the increase of trade and more jobs. “I regret that the President has chosen to cut economic growth and jeopardize our position as one of the most competitive centers of international trade.”
01.23.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX-28), will host a two-day international meeting with the Federal Railroad Administration, state and federal agencies and their Mexican counterparts to discuss standards and protocols for rail service from the United States to Mexico. The meetings, brought together as a result of appropriations language passed by Congressman Cuellar, will take place from Monday, January 23 to Tuesday, January 24 at Texas A&M International University. Groups from both the United States and Mexico are studying the harmonization of rail speed, safety and infrastructure regulation and rail standards in both countries. The study would help support projects like the proposed higher-speed rail project from San Antonio to Monterrey via Laredo. The proposed route for the high-speed passenger rail would begin in San Antonio at the VIA Transit Center Station, stop northwest of Laredo at a new railway bridge near the Laredo Colombia Solidarity Bridge (LCSB), and continue on a new rail line approved for construction in the Mexican state of Nuevo Leon with final destination to Monterrey, Mexico. “This proposed route for passenger rail between San Antonio, Laredo and Monterrey would increase tourism and boost development and growth in our area while strengthening our cities’ centuries-old relationships,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank the City of Laredo, Webb County, the City of Monterrey and representatives from the state and federal governments in both countries for their dedication and support to this exciting project that will benefit our communities.” This route proposal was added as a result of stakeholder meetings in Laredo, at which attendees expressed a desire for direct service from San Antonio to Monterrey, Mexico, with a new stop northwest of Laredo at LCSB. A feasibility study was conducted by the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) to examine the U.S. component of this new line while considering the ridership impact of such a connection. Congressman Cuellar was successful in adding language in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus House Appropriations bill for a feasibility study for a passenger rail between San Antonio and Monterrey through Laredo: “Passenger Rail between Mexico & United States.--The Committee understands that standards or protocols for passenger rail between the United States and Mexico do not currently exist. The Committee encourages FRA to work with all relevant state and federal agencies and their Mexican counterparts to study what standards and protocols are needed to facilitate a passenger and freight rail line between the U.S. and Mexico, in Texas, and other international land crossings.” List of Attendees U.S. Attendees: FEDERAL: Federal Rail Administration STATE: Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) MUNICIPAL: City of Laredo and Webb County Mexico Attendees: FEDERAL: Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Mexico's Communications and Transportation Ministry) STATE: Corporación Para El Desarrollo De La Zona Fronteriza De Nuevo León (CODEFRONT) [the Corporation for the Development of the Border Area of Nuevo León (CODEFRONT)] STATE: Agencia para la Racionalización y Modernización del Sistema de Transporte Público de Nuevo León (Nuevo Leon Public Transportation Agency) MUNICIPAL: Secretaría Desarrollo Económico del Municipio de Monterrey (Economic Development Ministry of the City of Monterrey)
01.18.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has released the following statement regarding the federal grant application by Teaching and Mentoring Communities (TMC): “I had a phone conversation with the Administration at the Office of Head Start, which informed me that no federal funds will be used for the unnecessary relocation of headquarters. This means that TMC will not have the federal funds available to leave Laredo and dozens of local jobs will be saved. I still have serious concerns about the board leadership at TMC. The Office of Head Start has stated in an official correspondence to TMC that it recognizes that the board is proposing major changes in their refunding application to address some longstanding challenges, most notably chronic under-enrollment and top heavy management structure. “As a federal appropriator, I have had a difficult time communicating with them, I can only imagine how parents are treated. The board of directors have spent too much time focusing on relocating TMC’s headquarters. They need to refocus on addressing the chronic under-enrollment of children, improve services for children and families, and their top-heavy management structure. I hope the board of directors will reembrace Laredo and reach out to my office, the City of Laredo, TAMIU, LCC and all the community partners that wish to partner with them to further develop great relationships locally. My office is ready to work with them to improve services for children and families, rather than closing facilities and cutting jobs.” Click here to view the official correspondence from the Administration for Children and Families’ Office of Head Start in Washington, D.C.
01.17.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has released the following statement regarding the nomination of Texas Governor Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy: "I have worked with Governor Rick Perry since I was a representative in the Texas House, and I was appointed by him as his first Secretary of State. My district is rich with natural resources and with Governor Perry directing state energy policy we set records for job growth and increased revenue to our schools and small businesses," said Congressman Cuellar. "Under Governor Perry's leadership, Texas successfully increased oil production by more than 150% while simultaneously becoming the nation's leading wind energy producer, developed one of the largest natural gas basins in the entire country, and saw a massive expansion of solar energy. Energy security contributes to our national security and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to vote yes on Governor Perry's nomination as Secretary of Energy."
01.13.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), the only Democrat appointed to the powerful House Committee on Appropriations from Region 6 which consists of Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, was appointed to the Defense Subcommittee and will continue his role on the Homeland Security Subcommittee for the 115th Congress, rising to the second ranking member position. As a member of the Defense Subcommittee, Congressman Cuellar will review funding for Department of Defense, as well as the Central Intelligence Agency. The Defense Subcommittee has oversight of the largest component of federal discretionary spending. The Committee provides funding for our troops, weapons programs, and military conflicts abroad. As a member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Congressman Cuellar will review funding for the Department of Homeland Security which includes Customs and Border Protection (CBP), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Coast Guard, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and the Office of Domestic Preparedness Funding, among others. “I am grateful for the opportunity to continue serving on House Appropriations with a new role on Defense and added seniority on Homeland Security,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In today's world our national defense, national security, and intelligence services play a more crucial role than ever before. Our challenge is to make certain we continue to lead in innovation and technology while be good stewards of tax dollars. I look forward to working with my colleagues to perform this job in a way that will make our country safer and more secure.” Congressman Cuellar first joined the U.S. House of Representatives in 2005 and is currently the most senior Congressman on the Texas border, Chairman of the Texas Democratic Delegation, a Senior Whip and Chairman of Communications for the Blue Dog Coalition. This will be Congressman Cuellar’s fifth year on the House Appropriations Committee, tasked with oversight of the Federal budget, review of proposed expenditures, and crafting the legislation that outlines annual spending for government agencies.
01.12.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s decision to end the Cuban “wet foot dry foot” policy: “Today I had a conversation with the Department of Homeland Security, where they informed me that effective immediately the United States will end the outdated “wet-foot, dry-foot” policy for Cuban immigrants. Ending this outdated policy is something I’ve been calling on the Administration to do and have been working on with my colleagues in Congress. The Obama Administration and Cuban government have come to an agreement allowing for repatriation and expedited removal of Cuban nationals who arrive at our ports of entry. This is an important step forward in modernizing our outdated immigration policies towards Cuba. The wet foot dry foot policy provided Cubans an unprecedented special immigration status that no other group of people possessed. I now call on our Congressional leaders to finish the job and end the outdated Cuban Adjustment Act and repeal the special financial benefits they receive if paroled. In the last fiscal year alone we saw approximately 56,000 Cubans arrive at our borders including roughly 34,658 through the Laredo Port of Entry in my home town.” To see a Fact Sheet from DHS, click here.
01.10.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has issued the following statement urging TMC to keep their headquarters in Laredo instead of relocating, which will cost jobs and may jeopardize TMC’s federal funding: "In 2015, TMC and its board of directors were determined to relocate with questionable justification, which would result in a loss of over 100 local jobs. The move was halted when I notified the Administration of Children and Families, the federal agency which administers the Head Start program, that funding the relocation would put TMC above the 15 percent legal limit for administrative cost. "This year, the TMC board is once again determined to move and, in an attempt to circumvent the federal administrative cost limit, the board has included a new budget item to relocate their headquarters—paid for by cuts to critical services and local jobs. Internal disagreements within TMC about the budget item has resulted in TMC failing to submit their yearly $64 million federal grant application on time, putting the agency’s entire funding in jeopardy. “That is not the right thing to do for our children and I consider it a misuse of taxpayer dollars. Head Start centers are where thousands of children receive critical services and, as a member of the House Committee on Appropriations, I can tell you first hand that when Congress allocates funds to an organization like TMC, we expect that organization to spend those federal dollars wisely and work to expand services, not cut them. “I call on the TMC board of directors to drop this unnecessary relocation strategy so that we can protect local jobs and preserve service levels. They operate 62 Head Start centers in Texas and seven other states and administer the Migrant Seasonal Head Start program and I have long been one of their biggest supporters but putting federal funding at risk is unacceptable. “I will also call on the Administration of Children and Families to audit the TMC application once it is submitted. I will, furthermore, request that dollars that do not benefit the parents or the children be disallowed. “This unnecessary attempt by TMC means fewer kids and fewer families will receive these critical services, and I will not stand for that."
01.05.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today sent a letter to the director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Sarah R. Saldaña, seeking answers about the release of hundreds of asylum-seeking immigrants from family detention centers in South Texas, without notifying local communities. “Hundreds of asylum-seeking immigrants, mostly women and children from Central America, are being released from family detention centers in South Texas, where they are free to go with relatives or sponsors while they await their asylum hearing before an immigration judge. “In many instances, local governments and non-governmental organizations are left with the burden of having to provide shelter and resources to those who are released in the United States. “In my letter, I have asked Director Saldaña what policy ICE has to provide advance notice and coordination between ICE and local governments when releasing immigrants from detention. I have also asked what steps ICE takes to ensure these immigrants have the appropriate travel arrangements in place to minimize the amount of time spent in public transportation hubs. If ICE does not have a clear policy to provide advance notice to local governments, I will introduce an amendment in their budget to make sure it is a requirement from now on “Border communities cannot bear the burden of a broken immigration system. That is why I successfully fought to bring forth 55 more immigration judges across the country to help with the tremendous backlog of cases we have in our immigration courts, and $750 million in aid for Central America specifically to help reduce the migration of unaccompanied children and asylum-seekers to the United States. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and local communities to make sure we secure our borders to reduce illegal immigration while also making sure immigrants who are apprehended are treated fairly while they are in the U.S. immigration system.” See attached letter, or click here.
01.03.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) was sworn into his seventh term in the United States House of Representatives by Speaker Paul Ryan. Congressman Cuellar stands by House Speaker Paul Ryan as he takes the official oath of office as the 115th Congress formally convened on Tuesday in Washington, D.C. The Speaker of the House led today's traditional swearing-in ceremony on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar recited the oath that every Member of Congress has sworn since 1884: "I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God." "We have a lot to accomplish during this next Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As the representative for South Texas and the border, I will make sure to work with both Democrats and Republicans in Congress to continue our work to provide affordable and quality health care, higher education opportunities, expand trade, improve government efficiency, and bring more well-paying jobs to Texas.” Congressman Cuellar was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2004 and is currently a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the most senior Congressman on the Texas border, Chairman of the Texas Democratic Delegation as well Senior Whip and Chairman of Communication of the Blue Dog Coalition. He previously served as Texas Secretary of State and for 14 years represented Laredo in the Texas House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar has a well-deserved reputation for being a strong and independent voice for Texans. Often reaching across party lines to come up with bipartisan solutions for pressing issues facing both Texas and the country, in the 114th Congress, Congressman Cuellar: Secured language in the fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill that encourages federal agencies to support institutions and outreach programs that benefit minority students and communities, including Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and other minority serving institutions Secured nearly $948 million in the fiscal year 2016 appropriations omnibus package for federal courthouse projects, including $135 million in federal funding for the construction of a new federal courthouse for the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas in San Antonio, Texas Introduced and passed language in the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies bill to encourage the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to find ways to reduce veteran homelessness in rural and small communities including those on the U.S.- Mexico border Introduced the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act in the House, which later passed the Senate and was signed into law by President Obama. The bill promotes public-private partnerships to boost staffing and make infrastructure improvements at U.S. ports of entry without adding to the national deficit Successfully introduced and passed legislation to give the Starr-Camargo Bridge permanent operating authority Successfully advocated for and included language in the fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill to lift the outdated 1975 prohibition on the export of U.S. crude oil Included language in the fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill to secure $5.5 million to help address the damaging effects of citrus greening disease in the United States, including the Rio Grande Valley Included language in fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill to bring improved government accessibility to constituents by encouraging the government to improve its customer service and report back to Congress Secured many grants throughout the district for local community projects
01.03.2017	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Filemon Vela (D-TX-34) and Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX- 15) were sworn into the 115th Congress of the United States House of Representatives by Speaker Paul Ryan. The three congressmen have pledged to work together in the new Congress to bring results for the people of Hidalgo County by working to enhance border security, international trade, jobs, education, health care and veterans affairs. Border Congressmen Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX-15), Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Filemon Vela (D-TX-34) were sworn in as the 115th Congress formally convened on Tuesday in Washington, D.C. Congressman Cuellar: “I look forward to working with my friends, Reps. Filemon Vela and Vicente Gonzalez in the 115th Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We each have unique personalities, different committee assignments, and our own network of relationships. Combining our resources to work together will help Hidalgo County receive more resources and achieve better results. I am excited about what lies ahead.” Congressman Vela: “As the 115th Congress convenes, I look forward to working alongside Reps. Henry Cuellar and Vicente Gonzalez to increase the economic vitality of the Rio Grande Valley and all of South Texas. Together, we will continue to fight for families, veterans, education, and increased investments in our roads, ports, and infrastructure." Congressman Gonzalez: “I look forward to working with my colleagues, Rep. Cuellar and Rep. Vela, in Washington and here at home to develop policies that promote economic growth and job creation in our region and ensure that President-Elect Donald Trump and his administration recognize the important role South Texas plays in our economy.”
01.02.2017	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has issued the following statement regarding the release of Central American immigrants in Laredo by the Department of Homeland Security with a Notice to Appear before an immigration judge. Central American immigrants are released at a bus station in downtown Laredo Thursday by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “The Department of Homeland Security is releasing immigrants, mostly from Central America, in the Laredo area where they are free to go with relatives or sponsor organizations while they are given a Notice to Appear for an asylum hearing before an immigration judge on a certain date. These immigrants were previously processed to be deported before being reprocessed with a Notice to Appear and therefore released on their own recognizance. “Our law enforcement on the border have a tremendous job at hand. And while we are speaking about Central American immigrants today, we are expecting tens of thousands of more immigrants from other parts of the world in the next few months. “I recently spoke with Roman Macaya, Costa Rican Ambassador to the United States, regarding information that about 40,000 migrants from Haiti, as well as Africa, Asia and the Middle East, will be on their way to the United States southern border via Central America and Mexico. “I continue to stress the need to be more proactive and work with our neighbors in both Mexico and Central America to curb these huge waves of illegal immigration to the United States. Our taxpayer dollars, and more importantly, our border communities, are bearing the burden of providing emergency shelter and food for many of these immigrants who have been coming to the border and pleading asylum in record numbers. “This past year, Congress provided $750 million in aid for Central America specifically to help deter illegal immigration to the United States. Furthermore, I’m working with my colleagues to provide our justice system with the immigration judges and necessary infrastructure to cut down on the backlog of immigration cases. In FY16, we were able to provide the U.S. Department of Justice with 55 new immigration judges and had a deal worked out in the FY17 House Appropriations Act to provide 25 more. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find solutions to make changes to these processes at the border.”
12.20.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has issued the following statement regarding information detailing a new surge of immigrants from Haiti, Africa, Asia and the Middle East headed to the U.S. southern border. “I recently spoke with the Ambassador of Costa Rica to the United States, Roman Macaya, regarding a pending immigration crisis on their border and which will soon have major impacts here at the U.S. border. According to Ambassador Macaya, roughly 40,000 migrants from Haiti, as well as Africa, Asia and the Middle East, will enter Costa Rica through their border with Panama this next year. They will then attempt to work their way up to the U.S.-Mexican border. Currently, migrants in Costa Rica are blocked from moving further north by the Nicaraguan military. “However, if the Cuban crisis this past year has shown, they will likely soon find their way to our border, putting additional stress on our already thinly-stretched humanitarian resources; not to mention our immigration judges, who are working through a backlog of over half a million immigration cases. “This past year, we struggled through a surge of approximately 56,000 Cuban migrants running up through Central America to our border, mostly through my hometown of Laredo, Texas, due to the archaic Cuban Adjustment Act policy and unprecedented benefits the U.S. provides exclusively for Cubans. This was in addition to the swell of 137,366 Central American children and families from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador. Many of the Haitians arriving at our border were previously working in Brazil. However, due to the economic downturn in that country, they are seeking a path to the United States. Many have learned from smugglers and through social media that when they arrive at a port of entry or get picked up by the border patrol to claim they are seeking either a refugee status or asylum for a credible fear of persecution in their home country. This allows them to be granted a “Notice to Appear” for an asylum hearing and they are either briefly detained or allowed to enter the U.S. on their own recognizance. "I continue to call on the State Department and my colleagues in Congress to stop playing defense on our goal line at the border and look for ways in which we can assist our Central and South American neighbors to try and stem this tide of illegal migration. This past year we provided $750 million in aid for Central America. However, it was tied up with so many certification requirements that little of that money has actually been executed at this point. I’m hopeful that that money will be obligated in the upcoming days. Furthermore, I’m working with my colleagues to provide our justice system with the immigration judges and necessary infrastructure to cut down on the backlog of immigration cases. In FY16 we were able to provide the Justice Department with 55 new immigration judges and had a deal worked out in the FY17 House Appropriations Act to provide 25 more. I will continue to work with my colleagues to find solutions to make changes to these processes at the border.”
12.20.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that the President has signed H.R. 5591, a bill he authored to rename the post office located at 810 North U.S. Highway 83 in Zapata, Texas, as the “Zapata Veterans Post Office.” The bill has previously passed in both the House and Senate. A press conference will be held in Zapata at a future date. “In Zapata and across my district, there are many examples of fine men and women who have honorably served our country, which is why I introduced legislation to honor their defense of our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Zapata is home to approximately 503 veterans, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The six Treviño brothers of Zapata, all World War II veterans, are one of many great examples of Zapata’s brave veterans. Teodoro, Leopoldo, Antonio, Anselmo, Filberto Jr., and Jose Manuel Treviño performed many acts of bravery, including taking down enemy plans and protecting soldiers by using their own bodies as shields. Their courage and dedication to our nation demonstrate what it really means to be an American. “Veterans all across our nation, just like the Treviño brothers, share a wonderful love for country, which is why I am recognizing our veterans with the dedication of this post office. I also thank the Veterans Services Office in Zapata County, one of many organizations that work tirelessly to provide the essential care to those who have returned home from service, as well as my colleagues in the House and Sen. John Cornyn and Sen. Ted Cruz for their support that helped pass this bill,” Cuellar added. In September, Rep. Cuellar spoke in favor of H.R. 5591. View video here: https://youtu.be/9IbFLfT4n6o
12.19.2016	Governor Greg Abbott, Senator John Cornyn and Congressman Henry Cuellar today doubled down on their demand that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security should officially request flight hours for Operation Phalanx and the U.S. Department of Defense should agree to provide the assistance upon hearing word that the last Phalanx flight took off earlier this month. Operation Phalanx is a program through which the National Guard provides aerial surveillance, detection, and situational awareness capabilities in support of Border Patrol. Congress provided full funding for Operation Phalanx in Fiscal Year 2016. Given that the government is currently operating under a Continuing Resolution, that full funding remains. While Operation Phalanx will officially end on December 31st if there is not an approved request for additional flight hours for 2017, according to the National Guard, the aerial support flights have ended and they will be terminating contracts for hanger space and housing. CBP Commissioner Kerlikowske had last month sent a letter to Brian McKeon, the Department of Defense Under Secretary for Policy, expressing appreciation for DoD’s support. While this letter was welcomed, it did not make a formal request for support. Abbott, Cornyn and Cuellar previously sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting information on why the Department has chosen not to request flight hours for 2017 and on how the Department plans to fill in the gaps this lack of support will present. That letter has not yet been responded to. To read the full letter, click here.
12.16.2016	U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (D-TX) issued the following statements after their Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act, legislation promoting public-private partnerships to boost staffing and make infrastructure improvements at U.S. ports of entry without adding to the national deficit, was signed into law by President Obama: Senator Cornyn: “Pilot programs like these already underway in Texas have reduced wait times, increased efficiency and improved commerce at our ports of entry. I’m pleased President Obama signed this bill into law so more ports of entry can benefit, and I thank Congressman Cuellar for shepherding it through the House of Representatives.” Representative Cuellar: “I thank Sen. Cornyn for his bipartisan approach in working with me to pass this legislation. Every day, billions of dollars’ worth of goods cross the Texas-Mexico border, including $284 billion in trade at our nation’s largest customs district in my hometown of Laredo and the Rio Grande Valley. South Texas is a powerhouse for world trade, and this law will help increase the amount and efficiency of trade at our border ports of entry.” Background on the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act Developed with input from border community leaders and transportation industry stakeholders, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act gives U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) the authority to enter into innovative partnerships with local governments and private sector entities. As federal resources remain scarce, port communities have sought alternate avenues to ensure essential needs are met in the face of growing demand. This authority allows CBP to better leverage limited resources to speed up the flow of traffic at international ports of entry. Partnerships with local governments and the private sector will support improvements to border infrastructure and enhance staffing levels across port environments. The legislation has been endorsed by: the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Border Trade Alliance; Texas Border Coalition; Rio Grande Valley Partnership; the City of Laredo; Webb County; the Laredo Chamber of Commerce; Cameron County; City of Eagle Pass; City of Mission; City of McAllen; City of Harlingen; City of Pharr; Anzalduas International Bridge; McAllen-Hidalgo International Bridge; Pharr International Bridge; and the Starr-Camargo International Bridge Company.
12.13.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) toured International Bridges I and II with representatives from the General Services Administration (GSA), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the City of Laredo, and the City of Nuevo Laredo. During the tour, Congressman Cuellar was given an update on the renovations at both international crossing facilities. Earlier this year, an $88.8 million renovation project started at both international bridges. Congressman Cuellar secured the combined funding during the U.S. House Appropriations Committee Fiscal Year 2014 Budget. The Gateway to the Americas International Bridge, or Bridge 1, is 70 years old and is the oldest of Laredo’s four ports. Its last major renovation was more than 25 years ago. This new funding will allow for a complete internal renovation of the main building to optimize the space to improve pedestrian flow through the port. The expected completion date for the Bridge 1 renovation is September 2017. Currently, the Bridge 1 has eight pedestrian booths (three indoor, five outdoor) and four automobile booths. U.S.-bound traffic statistics for 2014 show Bridge 1 had approximately 3.5 million pedestrian crossings and 1.3 million automobile crossings, with an estimated 2.5 million estimated automobile passengers. The facility was in need of an updated design to improve wait times, waiting conditions and accessibility for visitors with disabilities or other physical impartments. As part of this project, improvements will be made to increase the number of pedestrian processing lanes to 14 and add a dedicated bicycle lane, reconfigure the primary car inspection lanes, upgrade and modernize the secondary area for further inspection, modernize security systems so drivers and pedestrians can flow through the port faster and renovate the pedestrian canopy to shade them from the sun while waiting in line. All of these improvements will make the process of moving pedestrians and automobile passengers faster, safer and more efficient. This should reduce peak automobile wait times from 33 to 15 minutes, and peak pedestrian wait times from 49 to 21 minutes. The Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge, or Bridge 2, was ranked as the busiest crossing for bus passengers in Fiscal Year 2014, with an average of 2,796 passengers per day (125-150 bus crossings per day). The layout of Bridge 2 is outdated, which contributes to long wait times. Currently, bus processing occurs in an outdoor area that is ill-equipped for the massive bus traffic the port receives. Both the bus and automobile inspections currently occur in exterior spaces, which subjects travelers to uncomfortable and extreme temperatures common to our area. The new design will include a new bus and automobile inspection canopies and the construction of a new combined bus and passenger vehicle inspection facility, which will improve the flow and processing of bus and automobile traffic. It will also provide a very positive first impression of Laredo and the United States for travelers while providing for their safety and national security. The improved bus configuration is expected to reduce peak transit times from 160 to just 40 minutes. The estimated completion date for the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge renovation is April 2018. “This investment of $88.8 million will definitely help increase commerce and tourism to our gateway city. Overall, our goal is for travelers to have a pleasant experience when visiting our city, with the hope that they return frequently. At the end, everyone will be reaping the benefits of this project, both visitors and businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. Sylvia Hernandez, Regional Administrator for the General Services Administration, stated "Laredo remains a top priority for GSA and allows us to support the mission of the Custom and Border Protection to safeguard America's borders. The newly modernized facility will help with the ever growing demands along the Texas border while also creating employment opportunities that benefit the local economy. Through the collective efforts of GSA, CBP, Congressman Henry Cuellar and the City of Laredo, the project is well on its way to a successful completion." “This project would not have gotten off the ground without the help and participation of the General Services Administration, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the City of Laredo. I thank all of them for their participation and involvement in this renovation project,” said Congressman Cuellar. I also thank the City of Nuevo Laredo and Mexican Customs for their support and patience during this construction phase. Once completed, this will be a project of which we all will be proud.” Click here to view an animated rendering of the Gateway of the Americas International Bridge (Bridge 1) renovation design: https://youtu.be/_EU79RrnC8k Click here to view an animated rendering of the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge (Bridge 2) renovation design: https://youtu.be/OhzmhDjS6zA
12.10.2016	U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statements after their Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act, legislation promoting public-private partnerships (P3) to boost staffing and make infrastructure improvements at U.S. ports of entry without adding to the national deficit, passed both the House and the Senate: “In Texas, the overwhelming success of these pilot programs has proven that we can significantly reduce wait times and increase efficiency at our ports of entry,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Increasing opportunities for air, land, and sea ports of entry in Texas and across the country to engage in these partnerships will improve commerce and foster a stronger economy locally and nationally. I thank Representative Cuellar for his work on behalf of this bill in the House, and I hope the President will sign it into law soon.” “I thank Sen. Cornyn for his bipartisan approach in working with me to pass this legislation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My district includes the largest inland port in the country. Every day, billions of dollars’ worth of goods cross the Texas-Mexico border, including $284 billion in trade at the Laredo Customs District based in my home town of Laredo, Texas, and which extends to the Rio Grande Valley. South Texas is a world leader in trade, and with this bill we will be able to increase the efficiency and amount of trade passing through our ports of entry.” Developed with input from border community leaders and transportation industry stakeholders, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act will give U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) the authority to enter into innovative partnerships with local governments and private sector entities. As federal resources remain scarce, port communities have sought alternate avenues to ensure essential needs are met in the face of continued federal inaction. This authority allows CBP to better leverage limited resources to speed up the flow of traffic at international ports of entry. Partnerships with local governments and the private sector will support improvements to border infrastructure and enhance staffing levels across port environments. The legislation has been endorsed by: the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; the Border Trade Alliance; the Texas Border Coalition; the Rio Grande Valley Partnership; Cameron County; the City of Eagle Pass; the City of Mission; the City of McAllen; the City of Harlingen; the City of Pharr; the Anzalduas International Bridge; the McAllen-Hidalgo International Bridge; the Pharr International Bridge; the Starr-Camargo International Bridge Company. After the Senate passed the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act last week, the House passed an amended version on Tuesday, and the Senate passed the most current House-amended version this morning. The legislation will now go to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
12.08.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) made the following statement upon passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN Act), S. 612. The bill passed the House on a vote of 360-61 and now heads to the Senate. WIIN provides authorization for water and construction projects under the authority of the Army Corps of Engineers. The measure includes language sponsored by Congressman Cuellar authorizing Army Corps of Engineers to assist in a feasibility study on flood damage reduction, ecosystem restoration, and recreation development along Chacon Creek in Laredo. This project intends to turn the flood risk area into a vibrant part of the city. The Chacon Creek watershed drains 155 square miles in Webb County, a greater area than any other watershed in the Laredo area and poses a serious risk that a large storm could produce dangerous runoff, causing harm to lives and structures, such as bridges and drainage structures, to the tune of around $20 million. Congressman Cuellar has been working to revitalize the Chacon Creek area since starting in Congress in 2005 when he secured $3.3 million to build a hike and bike trail along the creek and has since worked with the City of Laredo and Army Corps of Engineers to address flooding and safety issues. The City of Laredo is moving forward taking proactive steps to mitigate the risk but is seeking assistance from Army Corps of Engineers. Congressman Cuellar was successful in adding language to the House FY17 Energy and Water Appropriations Act encouraging Army Corps of Engineers to work with the City to identify opportunities to assist in the Chacon Creek project. “Chacon Creek poses a flood risk and until recently couldn’t be used for recreation. This feasibility study to determine if important construction can go forward to reduce the flooding risk will complement and backstop the other work the City has already begun to revitalize the area, such as the hike and bike trail currently being constructed which I helped secure federal funding for.” WIIN is a comprehensive bill to address water related resources and infrastructure across the nation. The bill authorizes $10 billion for thirty new Army Corps of Engineers water projects to improve and restore our nation’s ports, levees and Everglades along with important drinking water and wastewater efforts. The bill also authorizes $170 million to aid Flint, Michigan to repair its lead-contaminated drinking water systems.
12.08.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement regarding the passage of S. 2943, the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on a vote of 375 to 34 and the Senate on a vote of 92 to 7. The bill will now head to the President for his signature. “I voted in favor of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act to ensure our military has the resources they need to get the job done,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am committed to ensuring that our service members are well equipped, well trained, and well cared for when the fight ends. The bill we passed takes important steps to ensure these goals, such as including a 2.1 percent pay raise for our men and women in uniform and providing for the extension of special and incentive pay. I thank House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13) and Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA-09) as well as Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) and Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI) for their tireless work on this bill.” Specifically, the bill authorizes $611.2 billion for the Department of Defense and other defense related activities across government. This includes $543.4 billion in base funding to train and equip our forces, along with $67.8 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations to fund the fight in Afghanistan and against the Islamic State. The bill includes a 2.1 percent pay raise for our military men and women and authorizes an extension of numerous bonus programs along with special and incentive pays. Included in the bill is a mandatory increase in our military’s end strength of 36,000 service members and prohibits any military base realignments or closures. The legislation also includes language Congressman Cuellar requested that would allow the conveyance of a building on the site of historic Fort McIntosh from the U.S. Army Reserve to Laredo Community College (LCC), should they reach an agreement.
12.06.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX-28) legislation, H.R. 875, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016, passed the U.S. House unanimously on voice vote today. Congressman Cuellar was the lead House sponsor of this bill and it will now need to be passed by the U.S. Senate* before being sent to the President. Congressman Cuellar and Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced to give U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the General Services Administration (GSA) the authority to enter into innovative partnerships with local governments and private sector entities over the next ten years to boost staffing, make infrastructure improvements and speed up the flow of traffic at U.S. ports of entry without adding to the national deficit. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act builds upon work Congressman Cuellar and others, through the Appropriations Committee, did in 2013 and 2014 to ease delays and improve infrastructure at our nation’s land and air ports of entry. Trade and travel to the U.S. has been increasing significantly over the years, yet staffing levels at U.S ports of entry have been stagnant. In 2014, Congress authorized over $255 million to increase the CBP workforce including 2,000 new officers, however, CBP has been struggling to hire these officers due to attrition and the amount of time it takes to bring on new officers. In addition, our land ports of entry face numerous funding challenges and implications including a $5 billion capital improvement need. This challenge is only met by an average annual appropriation of $146 million, meaning it will take 34 years to meet this $5 billion need. Not meeting this will lead to undersized facilities, outmoded technologies, officer safety issues, longer wait times, higher transport costs, supply chain issues, less throughput, all meaning adverse economic impacts. Seeing the needs at our ports of entry and the increase in trade while working with our colleagues and stakeholders, Congress, through the House Appropriations Committee in 2013 and 2014 authorized pilot programs to give CBP, the private sector, and state and local governments the ability to enter into public-private partnerships to find innovative solutions to ease delays and improve infrastructure at our nations ports of entry. Section 559 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014, which Congressman Cuellar authored along with Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter, authorized a pilot program in which CBP could enter into agreements to receive donations of property or non-personal services at ports of entry. Since 2013, CBP has entered into reimbursable service agreements with 29 stakeholders at land, sea, and air ports of entry, which have contributed to more than 125,000 additional processing hours to meet stakeholder needs, amounting to 3 million travelers and nearly 460,000 vehicles. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016 will: Expand on this pilot program in a number of ways and authorize it for another 10 years Remove the limit on the number of reimbursable service agreements at air ports of entry Require the development of procedures to institute year-round review of proposals for donation agreements at ports of entry and set a deadline for CBP to decide on proposals Assist CBP in the hiring process by allowing a waiver to polygraph requirements for certain eligible veterans of the military This legislation is based on input from border community leaders and is endorsed by: the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce; Border Trade Alliance; Texas Border Coalition; Rio Grande Valley Partnership; the City of Laredo; Webb County; the Laredo Chamber of Commerce; Cameron County; City of Eagle Pass; City of Mission; City of McAllen; City of Harlingen; City of Pharr; Anzalduas International Bridge; McAllen-Hidalgo International Bridge; Pharr International Bridge; and the Starr-Camargo International Bridge Company. “My district includes the largest inland port in the country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Every day, billions of dollars’ worth of goods cross the Texas-Mexico border, including $284 billion in trade at the Laredo Customs District, based in my home town of Laredo, Texas, and which stretches to the Rio Grande Valley. “Since 2013, CBP has entered into reimbursable service agreements with 29 stakeholders at land, sea, and air ports of entry, which have contributed to more than 125,000 additional processing hours to meet stakeholder needs amounting to 3 million travelers and nearly 460,000 vehicles. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016 would expand on this pilot program and authorize it for another 10 years. “South Texas is a world leader in trade, and with this bill we will be able to increase the efficiency and amount of trade passing through our ports of entry. I thank my co-sponsors in the House, Rep. Will Hurd and Rep. Beto O’Rourke, as well as the lead sponsor in the Senate, Sen. Cornyn for his help in writing this bill and ushering support in the Senate. I also thank Homeland Security Chairman, Rep. Michael McCaul and Ways & Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady in seeing this bill completed and passed.” To view and download footage of Congressman Cuellar speaking in favor of the Cross Border Trade Enhancement Act, click here. *An earlier version of the bill was passed by the U.S. Senate. However, due to parliamentary issue under the Origination Clause of the Constitution, it must be passed again.
11.30.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today voted in favor of H.R. 34, “21st Century Cures Act,” which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 392 to 26. The bill will now go to the U.S. Senate, where it will need to be passed before being sent to the President. This legislation of $6.3 billion includes: $4.8 billion for the National Institute of Health, specifically o $1.46 billion for the Precision Medicine Initiative, launched by President Obama in 2015 o $1.51 billion for the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, President Obama’s focus aimed at revolutionizing our understanding of the human brain o and $1.8 billion for Vice President Biden’s Cancer Moonshot, an coalition with a goal of curing cancer $1 billion over 2 years for grants to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention and treatment activities, such as improving prescription drug monitoring programs, implementing prevention activities, training for health care providers, and expanding access to opioid treatment and recovery programs $500 million for the Federal Drug Administration over 10 years to foster innovation and expedite patient access to important drugs and medical devices, while at the same time maintaining existing standards for safety and effectiveness Mental Health Reform: The legislation includes numerous bipartisan mental health reform provisions, including the establishment of new grant programs for Adult Suicide Prevention and Strengthening Community Crisis Response Systems, reauthorizing and updating numerous critical mental health and substance use grant programs, and promoting evidence-based strategies for treating serious mental illness. Medicare-Related Provisions: The legislation also includes numerous bipartisan Medicare-related provisions that have previously passed the House this year, including increasing the number of beds for long-term care and extending the rural hospital demonstration program. “While the United States has made great innovations in health within the last few decades, we still need to invest in health research and innovation for our people,” Congressman Cuellar said. The 21st Century Cures Act will provide much-needed funding for new health research to help find cures for diseases such as cancer, fight opioid addiction, provide mental health services, and will allow for a faster approval process for innovative drug and treatment therapies so people can benefit from the latest innovations in health care sooner. I voted in favor of this bill because I believe health is the greatest gift we have and I want to make sure all Americans have a better chance at preserving it. I thank Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone (D-NJ) along with Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA) and Ranking Member Gene Green (D-TX) for their support that lead to the passage of this bill bipartisan bill.”
11.30.2016	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement regarding a U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) notification of reprograming $167 million of federal funds from other program to assist with the surge of unaccompanied minors at the southern border: “As the representative for the border, my district is one of the hardest hit by the surge in unaccompanied minors and family units to our border. We must do more to assist our partners in Central America by working to end the violence which is driving these unaccompanied minors and family units to our borders. This reprograming of funds would not be necessary if we did a better job at securing the border. We are currently playing defense at our own goal line when we would be better served by rooting out the cause. “Through my role on the House Appropriations Committee, we’ve provided $750 million in assistance to Central America in fiscal year 2016. However, this money has not been obligated in a timely or efficient manner. While it’s important to ensure this funding is used properly, we have little time to spare. “This further presses the need for more immigration judges, especially along the southern border, to expeditiously clear these cases. Currently, there is a backlog of roughly half a million immigration cases. While I was successful in assisting to bring onboard an additional 55 immigration judges through the fiscal year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill - with another 25 judges still pending in the FY17 Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations bill for a potential total of 80 new immigration judges over two years - it is not enough and we must do more.”
11.22.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has released the following statement regarding the issue of Zapata residents living beyond an International Boundary and Water Commission (IBWC) flowage easement: “Recently, several of my constituents from Zapata County called my office about a letter they received from the International Boundary and Water Commission, stating they were illegally living on federally-owned property and had 180 days to remove their structures from the boundary line. “Before the letter was sent to residents in Zapata, the IBWC surveyed what is known as the 307 boundary line near the Four Seasons Mobile Home and RV Resort. During that survey, the IBWC was made aware of people living beyond the boundary zone. That is when they notified residents, many of whom had bought their property decades ago and have been living on their properties since then. “As a result, my office has been in contact with the IBWC, Zapata County officials and the affected residents to find solutions to this issue. Next week, the IBWC will host an informational meeting with the affected residents on Tuesday, November 29 from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. in the Zapata Community Center located at 605 N. US Hwy 83, to discuss possible solutions. The IBWC has assured myself and my office that they are willing to work with these affected residents on a case-by-case basis. “I thank Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell, Zapata County Commissioner Eddie Martinez, U.S. Commissioner of the IBWC, Edward Drusina, and IBWC Principal Engineer Jose Nuñez, for their responsiveness and assistance on this issue.”
11.22.2016	In an effort to understand issues with our border security, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) joined U.S. Border Patrol agents with the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455 on a tour of the border in the Laredo Sector area-of-responsibility Monday evening. As part of the border tour, Congressman Cuellar witnessed agents apprehend five undocumented immigrants attempting to enter the United States. During the border tour, over 350 pounds of narcotics were also apprehended by agents. “Yesterday, I joined Border Patrol agents with the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455 on a tour of the border on the banks of the Rio Grande. The bravery and professionalism of these agents is truly commendable. “During the tour, I discussed issues dealing with border security and the agents’ needs on the ground including support for the maintenance of river roads, technology upgrades and vehicle maintenance. “Border Patrol agents are hard-working and dedicated law enforcement officers who have an extremely difficult job. This is why I will continue to support our men and women in green to continue to provide funding to help them with securing our nation’s border. “I thank Agent Hector Garza, president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455, and other agents for their service to our country and for providing me with yesterday’s border tour.” “Congressman Cuellar has been a strong advocate for border security and law enforcement. The National Border Patrol Council Local 2455 thanks Congressman Cuellar for his continued support and understanding of what it takes to secure our country,” said Hector Garza, Border Patrol agent and President of the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455.”
11.22.2016	Governor Greg Abbott, Senator John Cornyn and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting additional information on DHS's aerial-based border security resources. In February, the leaders expressed concern that DHS had only requested half the normal flight hours from the Department of Defense (DoD) to support Operation Phalanx, despite a full appropriation of funds from Congress. At this time, DHS has not requested any flight hours to support Operation Phalanx for calendar year 2017. "Given the continuing surge of migrants along the Southern Border beyond FY15 numbers and a large uptick in apprehensions already for the month of November 2016, we believe DHS should be requesting more surveillance and security resources, not less," Governor Abbott, Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar write in the letter. "Given that Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP) Office of Air and Marine is currently 12 percent below its goal for air interdiction agents this cut in DoD support is extremely imprudent." Governor Abbott, Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar requested that DHS identify which resources will be utilized to backfill the gaps left by a reduction in the aerial resources used to support the nation’s border security efforts. To read the full letter, click here.
11.22.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosted a meeting today in Zapata with area ranchers and farmers, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Texas Farm Service Agency (FSA) and the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service to discuss programs and funding for farm and ranching operations. The Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosts an informational with Zapata framers and ranchers, and representatives from the USDA Texas Farm Service Agency and Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service on Tuesday at the Zapata County Pavilion. Pictured from left to right are Arnulfo Lerma, USDA Farm Loan Manager; Judith Canales, USDA State Executive Director; Outreach Coordinator Francis Atwell; Rene Reyna, USDA Farm Service Agency Regional Director for Zapata and Starr County; and Benancio Cano Jr., USDA District Director. “I decided to organize this meeting as a result of meetings between my Washington, D.C., legislative staff and officials and constituents in Zapata County last month,” said Congressman Cuellar. “My office met with county leaders, and one topic of concern was the lack of an FSA office in Zapata. I am glad that this meeting helped answer a lot of the questions that ranchers and farmers may have. I thank Judith Canales, FSA State Executive Director, and representatives from USDA FSA, Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service and Zapata County for helping to make this meeting possible.” Meeting topics included acreage reporting; agriculture risk coverage (ARC) and price loss coverage (PLC); Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-raised Fish (ELAP); farm records changes and updates; Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP); and Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP). In attendance were Francis Atwell, Outreach Coordinator for the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar; Judith A. Canales, FSA State Executive Director; Benny Cano Jr., FSA District Director; Arnulfo Lerma, FSA Farm Loan Manager; Rene Reyna, FSA County Executive Director – Starr and Zapata Counties; and Zaragosa Rodriguez IV, Texas A&M AgriLife County Extension Agent
11.16.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) is inviting the area’s ranchers and farmers to an informational meeting with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Texas Farm Service Agency (FSA) and the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service on Tuesday, November 22 at the Zapata County Pavilion, located at 405 W 23rd Street in Zapata, Texas. Registration starts at 9:30 a.m. with the program commencing at 10 a.m. “I decided to organize this meeting as a result of meetings between my Washington, D.C., legislative staff and officials and constituents in Zapata County last month,” said Congressman Cuellar. “My office met with county leaders, and one topic of concern was the lack of an FSA office in Zapata. I am hopeful that this meeting will answer a lot of the questions that ranchers and farmers may have. I thank Judith Canales, FSA State Executive Director, and representatives from USDA FSA, Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service and Zapata County for helping to make this meeting possible.” Meeting topics include acreage reporting; agriculture risk coverage (ARC) and price loss coverage (PLC); Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-raised Fish (ELAP); farm records changes and updates; Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP); and Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP). Speakers include: Judith A. Canales, FSA State Executive Director Benny Cano Jr., FSA District Director Arnulfo Lerma, FSA Farm Loan Manager Rene Reyna, FSA County Executive Director – Starr and Zapata Counties Zaragosa Rodriguez IV, Texas A&M AgriLife County Extension Agent
11.16.2016	In an effort to connect Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) faculty and alumni in our nation’s capital, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Dr. Pablo Arenaz, newly-named president of TAMIU, on Tuesday evening hosted the first-ever TAMIU Alumni Meeting in D.C. Congressman Cuellar received his Master of Business Administration in International Trade from TAMIU, formerly Laredo State University, in 1982. “This meeting gave TAMIU officials and alumni who currently reside in D.C. an opportunity to learn how we can help each other out in Washington,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This gathering definitely opened up opportunities for TAMIU alumni in our nation’s capital. I thank Dr. Arenaz and TAMIU for helping to organize our first alumni meeting in Washington.” In addition to the TAMIU officials and other alumni, three TAMIU alumni currently working in Congress attended the meeting. They include Carlos Sanchez, chief of staff for Rep. Joaquín Castro; Jorge Aguilar, press secretary at the Office of the Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi; and Juan Sanchez, legislative fellow for Congressman Henry Cuellar. TAMIU was ranked first in the nation among the “Top 10 Colleges with the Highest Hispanic Enrollment” according to the 2015 U.S. News and World Report. TAMIU also ranked fourth for “Best Bang for the Buck” among the nation’s Southern Schools by Washington Monthly magazine’s 2016 College Guide. In addition, TAMIU was recently ranked 22 by Niche.com as one of the safest college campuses in Texas. Congressman Henry Cuellar, fifth from left, and Dr. Pablo Arenaz, president of TAMIU, fourth from left, hosted the first-ever TAMIU Alumni Meeting in Washington, D.C., Tuesday evening, where alumni had the chance to connect and learn about the many opportunities in our nation’s capital. Congressman Henry Cuellar, left, with Rosanne Palacios, vice president for Institutional Advancement at TAMIU, and Dr. Pablo Arenas, president of TAMIU.
11.10.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has again renewed his call for the Administration to better enforce our nation’s immigration laws and to protect our borders. In February, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) had said illegal immigration numbers where decreasing. Congressman Cuellar disagreed and sent out a statement showing that data over a longer period of time actually showed that border apprehensions were continuing to increase. Today, in a statement by DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson, the Administration recognizes it was wrong in its previous calculations stating that the surge at the border was decreasing. “We are a nation of laws and must secure our southern border. U.S. Border Patrol apprehension numbers show that there continues to be an increase in the numbers of unaccompanied children and families apprehended at the border, mostly from countries in Central America. In December, I along with Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX-12), chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, included $750 million in funding to help reduce illegal immigration to the United States from Central America. As of last week, only $23 million of these $750 million in funds had been appropriated. The Administration has to use these resources to address the roots of this problem in Central America “Immigration detention centers are currently beyond capacity, and the Secretary has ordered additional space with the intention of processing and deporting individuals back to their country of origin. For immigrants who are pleading asylum, we must make sure that they have fast access to judicial hearings with an immigration judge who will determine their status. “The backlog in cases, however, has led to many immigrants waiting years for their asylum cases to be heard. That’s why I successfully included funding in the FY16 Appropriations bill to hire 55 new immigration judges nationwide and we’re looking to add another 25 in FY17, to speed up the process while preserving asylum-seekers their right to an immigration hearing. I’m also planning to introduce language which would suspend visas to countries who do not accept their own citizens who have been ordered deported from the United States. “Securing our borders is no easy task, which is why I have advocated for the use of state-of-the-art technology to monitor the border 24/7 at a lower cost to taxpayers. “We must continue to encourage people from all over the world who wish to immigrate to the United States to do so through our safe and legal options.” To see Congressman Cuellar’s statement from February, click here: /news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=399627 To see DHS Secretary Johnson’s statement released earlier today, click here: /news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=400687
11.04.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today brought together trade and transportation officials for a meeting at Laredo City Hall to discuss the development of a federal grant application to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grant. The FASTLANE program provides dedicated funding for projects that address critical freight issues facing our nation’s highways and bridges. The Laredo Customs District is the third largest in the nation surpassed only by Los Angeles and New York, processing 280 billion dollars of trade. Local officials anticipate trade through Laredo to increase by 40 percent over the next five years. The U.S. Department of Transportation’s is currently soliciting competitive applications for up to $850 million. The Laredo team is working to develop an application for highway improvements worth over $100 million. The grant, which is due on December 15 of this year, would increase the number of lanes from the World Trade Bridge to Interstate Highway 35, and as well as adding direct connectors throughout loop 20. These improvements will facilitate trade and help alleviate congestion on our streets and highways. Congressman Cuellar and the officials present at today’s meeting also discussed their work amending a presidential permit for World Trade Bridge to expand lanes from its current eight to sixteen and installing a weight in motion system at the bridge. In attendance were Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, State Representative Richard P. Raymond, District Engineer for the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) - Laredo District Pete Alvarez, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Port Director Greg Alvarez for the Laredo Port of Entry, as well as representatives from Webb County, the Laredo Regional Mobility Authority, the Texas Freight Advisory Committee and the Border Trade Advisory Committee among others. Congressman Henry Cuellar hosts a meeting with trade and transportation officials in Laredo on Friday to discuss the development of a federal transportation grant to increase trade in at the Laredo Port of Entry. Local trade and transportation representatives discuss border infrastructure projects during a meeting hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar in Laredo on Friday. A one week analysis shows the freight goods that cross through the Port of Laredo. By day 7, every state in the continental United States has received goods that came through the Port of Laredo. (Courtesy TxDOT - Texas Freight Mobility Plan: National Impact of Texas-Mexico Border) Click here to view larger image. “I organized this meeting today with trade and transportation officials at all levels of government and development to develop a federal grant application in order to improve our border trade infrastructure in Laredo,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These projects are necessary for the growth of our city and to alleviate congestion at World Trade Bridge and parts of town that receive heavy commercial traffic. These improvements would not only be tremendously beneficial for Laredo, but will also help retail, commerce and trade throughout the entire United States. I thank Mayor Saenz, City Manager Olivares, Representative Raymond and all officials who are working to invest in our city’s future.”
10.26.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced close to $5 million in federal funds for the Rio Water Supply Corporation and the Rio Grande City Economic Development Corporation. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and USDA Rural Development Texas State Director Paco Valentin present a check for $4,650,000 to the Rio Water Supply Corporation in Rio Grande City on Wednesday. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-25) and USDA Rural Development Texas State Director Paco Valentin present a check for $300,000 to the Rio Grande City 4B Economic Development Corporation in Rio Grande City on Wednesday. The Rio Water Supply Corporation will receive $4,650,000 million in grants and a loan of $293,000. These funds will be used for improvements needed to stabilize the water distribution system pressures and to ensure an adequate volume of safe drinking water. Meanwhile, the Rio Grande City 4B Economic Development Corporation will receive a $300,000 grant that will be used to purchase land for redevelopment as an incubator for small businesses. Specifically, the Rio Water Supply Corporation will install approximately 12 miles of pipe lines and construct a 500,000-gallon elevated storage tank. This project is being financed with a $293,000 loan, a $1,005,500 grant, and a $3,356,500 Colonia grant. Construction should begin in early 2017 and will take approximately one year to complete. “Once construction is completed, the water system will be in compliance with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Local schools also will no longer have issues with safe drinking water, thanks to this federal investment.” The $300,000 grant for the Rio Grande City 4B Economic Development Corporation will help the city’s Small Business Incubator provide up to five start-up small businesses with affordable spaces as they begin their ventures. The funds will also help position small businesses for competitiveness and viability with technical support provided by the Rio Grande City Economic Development Center and the area’s business development partners. “At the end of the day, this federal investment for the people of Rio Grande City will contribute to the city’s economic growth and improve local employment opportunities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This will also help to increase local tax revenues and help reinvest in public services.” “I would like to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his leadership and proactive role in securing these much needed funds for the citizens of Starr County,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development Texas State Director. “It is a great occasion for local leaders to be announcing the funding of two projects in the same county. I would also like to commend our rural leaders for their forward thinking vision that ultimately equates to increased economic opportunities and improved quality of life."
10.20.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today hosted a discussion with the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness and state and local organizations in Laredo to come up with strategies to end homelessness among children and veterans in Laredo and Webb County. Cuellar was joined by Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz; Webb County Judge Tango Tijerina; Robert Pulster, Regional Coordinator, U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness; Eric Samuels, President and CEO, Texas Homeless Network; and Kameron Fowler, Coordinator for Balance of State Continuum of Care. “I am seriously concerned about the number of homeless veterans in Laredo,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is why I added language in the Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation, Housing Urban Development Appropriations Bill directing U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to develop strategies for reducing veteran homelessness on the U.S.-Mexico Border.” Many homeless veterans living on the U.S.-Mexico border have not historically been counted on the Point-in-Time Homeless Survey. To help bring an end to homeless veterans, Congressman Cuellar added language to the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill calling on the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to seek out ways to form partnerships with local service agencies to ensure they are maximizing public investment and providing the best, most comprehensive care to veterans. Part of Cuellar’s language also encourages the VA to conduct a pilot-program to supply formerly homeless veterans with furniture, household items, and other assistance. Veterans Affairs statistics shows there are 1.68 million veterans in Texas, with 41,414 of them residing in the 28th Congressional District. Of these, 6,381 live in Webb County, with 107 of them being homeless. “One veteran experiencing homelessness or at risk of becoming homeless is one too many, let alone 107,” Congressman Cuellar said. Congressman Cuellar said that according to the VA, the main reason for homelessness is financial reasons and not being able to keep paying rent or mortgage. “While currently there is a lot of good work being done in Laredo to help veterans and the homeless, more needs to be done between agencies to address this growing problem. I believe that through dialogue and talks such as this one today, improvements will be made, with hopes of curtailing this problem.”
10.20.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Thursday announced a partnership between the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System, TriWest Healthcare Alliance and Gateway Community Health Center Inc. that will allow for further expansion of health care services for veterans at the Laredo (VA) Outpatient Clinic. In 2014, the VA expanded its Patient-Centered Community Care contracts with TriWest Healthcare Alliance to include implementing the Veterans Choice Program, which ensures veterans have access to the quality health care services they need through established partnerships between health clinics and the VA system. Under the Choice Program, if the VA cannot schedule an appointment within 30 days of the veteran’s preferred date, or if the veteran resides more than 40 miles from their closest VA medical facility, the veteran can receive medical care at community care provides such as Gateway Community Health Center. Veterans in Webb County can now receive health care services at Gateway Community Health Center if the local VA clinic cannot see them within 30 days of their preferred date. This means more services, expanded quality care and faster appointments with doctors and health professionals. "Veterans’ needs have been a priority of mine since being entering Congress more than 10 years ago,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Our veterans have paid a great price to defend our country, and they deserve nothing but the best healthcare here at home, without having to travel far away. “This new partnership between the VA and Gateway Community Health Center is another example of our shared commitment to put our veterans first. I thak Laredo Outpatient Clinic Administrative Officer Lawrence A. DeVoto, Capt. USA Ret., and Gateway Community Health Center CEO Elmo Lopez, Jr., for their hard work and dedication to our local veterans.” “Gateway’s mission is ‘To Provide Quality Care for All’ and this partnership with the VA is allowing us to further extend that care,” said Elmo Lopez, Jr., CEO of Gateway Community Health Center Inc. “We are thrilled to be able to offer our Veterans more services and more options. We thank Mr. Lawrence DeVoto, Administrative Officer of the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic, and Congressman Cuellar for his continued support and mission to ensure accessible healthcare. “
10.19.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced $1 million in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office), COPS Hiring Program (CHP), to the City of Mission Police Department. With these funds, the police department will increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts by hiring eight new law enforcement officers, bringing the total number of police officers to 157. The new officers will be hired from multiple sources, including already-certified police who would immediately start work, as well as new recruits who will attend a six-month police academy. This grant is part of a $119 million investment in law enforcement nation-wide through the CHP. The Fiscal Year 2016 CHP was designed to advance public safety through community policing by addressing the full-time sworn officer needs of state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide. Since 1994, COPS has awarded over $14 billion nation-wide, providing funding to more than 13,000 of the nation’s 16,000 law enforcement agencies, and has trained more than 700,000 policing professionals and community leaders. This year, the DOJ gave additional consideration to police departments that focused on addressing specific community policing problems, such as building community trust and collaborations with schools. “I congratulate Mayor Salinas and Police Chief Dominguez on their great work to serve and protect the people of Mission,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The Mission Police Department has built strong ties with our community through successful outreach and education programs. Today’s $1 million grant from the Department of Justice will help continue that tradition and build trust in the community while enhancing policing activities.”
10.18.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today the awarding of two federal grants totaling over $1 million to Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) from the National Science Foundation and the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Matching Grant Program. Congressman Henry Cuellar presents a check for a two grants totaling over $1 million to TAMIU on Tuesday. Pictured from left to right are Dr. Pablo Arenaz, Interim President of TAMIU; Dr. Runchang Lin, Co-Principal Investigator and Assistant Professor of Mathematics; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Dr. Jack Byham, VITA Program Coordinator and Assistant Professor of Political Science; and Dr. Thomas R. Mitchell, Interim Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs. The first grant is from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for $999,989 to be distributed over a period of five years and will be used to fund TAMIU’s College of Arts & Sciences-Aid (CASC-Aid) Project, which will provide 18 academically-talented undergraduate students with scholarships of up to $6,800 per academic year for the next five years to assist them in completing degrees in the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The NSF grant will also be used for materials and supplies, fringe benefits, the hiring of a consultant for an external evaluation of the project, and the hiring of two graduate students to assist with the implementation of activities and data collection and conduct research. The project includes professor-led community tutoring, success workshops, advising, field trips and career guidance designed to help prepare students for a successful academic future. According to the U.S. News and World Report, TAMIU was ranked number 1 in the United States for highest percentage of Hispanic degree-seeking undergraduates in fall 2014. The second grant awarded to TAMIU in the amount of $160,000, which will be distributed at $80,000 per year for two years, is funded through the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Matching Grant Program and will enable TAMIU and its partners to expand the local VITA program that provides free tax preparation services for underserved populations in hardest-to-reach areas. The funds will increase TAMIU-VITA’s capacity to file tax returns electronically, enhance the training of volunteers and significantly improve the accuracy rate of returns prepared at VITA sites. “Nationwide, only 14.4 percent of Hispanics have a bachelor’s degree or higher, compared with 35.6 percent of non-Hispanic whites; and in Laredo that number is only 12.8 percent,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The U.S. Department of Education estimates that between 2010 and 2020, the overall employment in STEM occupations is projected to increase by 17 percent. Yet, Hispanics currently only make up 6.5 percent of the STEM workforce. One of my priorities in Congress is to bring more opportunities to underrepresented populations in my district, which is why I recently included $30 million in funding in the Fiscal Year 2017 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for the NSF to work and partner specifically with Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), such as TAMIU, on STEM and cybersecurity research. “Similarly, TAMIU’s VITA program has helped many families get back more money during their federal tax returns, which not only helps those individuals have more money for necessities, but also reinvests that money into our local economy. Increasing the number of STEM degrees in our community and helping more families keep more of their federal taxes is a great investment in our future. I thank President Pablo Arenaz and the staff at TAMIU for their dedication to Laredo’s future.” Dr. Pablo Arenaz, Interim President of TAMIU: “We are humbled by the generous partnership and support made possible by Cong. Cuellar with our receipt of the NSF grant and IRS-expanded funding of TAMIU-VITA. Both of these awards are sharply focused on the University’s role in bettering and changing futures. This NSF grant provides financial assistance to academically talented students in our STEM disciplines, and will encourage their entry into these highly desirable fields. The expanded funding of the TAMIU-Vita program helps our students build on important learning connections to our community, while performing a crucial service that has helped Laredoans receive more than $12 million in tax refunds, and to save more than $1 million in tax preparation fees. Together, these programs help our students make a difference here and go beyond.”
10.17.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced four grants totaling approximately $5.5 million from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to Serving Children and Adults in Need, Inc. (SCAN) that will be used to provide effective treatment and prevention services in the areas of substance abuse, HIV/AIDS, and treatment for children, adolescents and families that have gone through traumatic events. “SCAN continues its tremendous service to our community by providing prevention services for at-risk populations and treatment for those who are currently battling substance abuse,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I believe in SCAN’s mission to give every person a chance to take control of their lives and become a productive member of society. Through the great leadership and hard work of everyone at SCAN, we have seen great results in Webb County. Today’s funds are an investment in the well-being of our citizens and gives hope for so many families in our community. The four SAMHSA grants awarded to SCAN are broken up into four projects. The first grant will implement the Mujeres Sanas en la Frontera (Healthy Women on the Border) Program which will provide specialized mental health services and substance abuse treatment for women and their partners who are living with or at risk for HIV/AIDS. This project will be funded at $500,000 per year for three years for a total of $1,500,000. Congressman Cuellar presents a check for almost $5.5 million to Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN) Inc. on Monday. Pictured from left to right are Dr. Gabriela Perez, Program Director of Mujeres Sanas en La Frontera; Dr. Susan Rivera, Program Director of the Border Traumatic Stress Response Center; Isela Dabdoub, CEO of SCAN; Luis E. Flores, Executive Vice President; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Dr. Christopher Craddock, Vice President; and Enrique Manrique, Program Director of Technology-Assisted Care. The second grant will fund the Futuros Con Promesa (Futures with Promise) Program which will focus on providing substance abuse and HIV prevention strategies to at-risk youth and young adults 13 to 24 years of age. This project will be funded at $208,283 for the first year and $234,598 the remaining four years for a total of $1,146,675. The third grant will allow SCAN to implement its Technology Assisted Border Expansion and Enhancement Project (TA-BEEP) to expand and enhance substance abuse treatment services for adolescents who live in rural and underserved areas of Webb County through the use of Web-based services such tablets and smart phones, and behavioral health electronic applications that will allow SCAN to recruit clients in remote areas, communicate with them and other clients, and track and manage their health to ensure that services are available where and when clients need them. This project will be funded $280,000 per year for three years for a total of $840,000. The last grant will reestablish the Border Traumatic Stress Response Center which will increase access to effective trauma-focused treatment for children, adolescents, and their families who experience traumatic events. The center will also collaborate with the National Child Traumatic Stress Network on research and provide other healthcare providers in the community with the latest information and training for effective trauma-focused treatment. The project is funded at 400,000 per year for five years for a total of $2,000,000. Together, the four grants total a federal investment of $5,486,675. “These grants will fill important services gaps in Webb County,” said Luis E. Flores, Executive Vice President of SCAN. “For instance, SCAN will be able to provide therapy for children and teens who have experienced all types of traumatic events and help caregivers support their healing. The funding will also allow SCAN to continue providing comprehensive substance abuse and mental health services for adult women who are at risk of contracting HIV and viral Hepatitis. Another project that is new to SCAN will help retain in treatment those clients struggling with substance use who lack transportation or live in remote areas of Webb County by allowing them to receive their counseling through their smart phones or tablets. Lastly, we will also be able to ensure that young men and women who are at risk of using substances or contracting HIV are able to detect their serostatus, develop the skills to prevent contracting HIV and developing problems with addiction. We are very excited about these four projects.”
10.17.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today presented a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to his third-grade teacher at Buenos Aires Elementary, (currently Don Jose Gallego Elementary), 101-year-old Ninfa Uribe Ramirez. Mrs. Uribe Ramirez was born and raised in San Ygnacio, Texas, the oldest town still standing in Zapata County, on February 4, 1915. She is a descendant of that city’s founder, Jesus Treviño. Mrs. Uribe Ramirez, who currently lives in Laredo, was an educator from 1934 to 19340 in San Ygnacio, and from 1963 to 1978 in Laredo. She was also a reporter for the Laredo Morning Times from 1958 to 1961, where she covered the area of San Ygnacio. She attributes her mind staying sharp to doing crossword puzzles every morning. “Mrs. Uribe Ramirez is one of the many educators who shaped my life and believed in me,” said Congressman Cuellar. Great teachers can have a profound impact on the hearts and minds of young people. I am grateful for the education I received from her and congratulate her on reaching 101 years of age, as well as the other great milestones in her life.” Congressman Cuellar presents a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to his third-grade teacher from Buenos Aires Elementary (Don Jose Gallego Elementary), 101-year-old Ninfa Uribe of San Ygnacio, Texas, honoring her long career as an educator and writer on Monday. Pictured from left to right are Congressman Henry Cuellar, Ninfa Uribe Ramirez and her sons Amado Ramirez, Jr., and Victor M. Ramirez.
10.14.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced a new $6 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s Developing Hispanic Serving Institutions (DHSI) Program to Laredo Community College (LCC). The funds will be dispersed in increments of $1.2 million each year for five years, and will be used by LCC to implement their Leadership, Excellence and Academic Preparedness in STEM (LEAPS) Project to increase the number of Hispanic and low-income students attaining degrees in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) at the college. Congressman Henry Cuellar announces a $6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education at Laredo Community College on Friday. Pictured from left to right are Dr. Ricardo Solis, President of LCC; Jackie Levin-Ramos, LCC Board of Trustees; Judge Mercurio Martinez, Jr., President of the LCC Board of Trustees; Dr. Nora Garza, Vice President for Resource Development; and Congressman Henry Cuellar. The grant will also fund tutoring, counseling and other student services including transfer and articulation agreements between LCC, Texas A&M International University, Texas A&M University at Kingsville, the University of Texas at San Antonio, and all Hispanic-Serving four-year institutions. These services are designed to improve academic success and retention to help students better transition into core courses and complete the program. A previous $1.1 million DHSI STEM grant that Congressman Cuellar announced in January has helped LCC implement strategies that have increased STEM access and success through evidence-based methods. Earlier this month, Congressman Cuellar announced he successfully included funding and language in several House Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bills that encourage federal agencies to support institutions and outreach programs that benefit minority students and communities. “Today’s $6 million grant announcement is an investment in our community’s future,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “As a graduate of LCC and other Hispanic-Serving Institutions, I firmly believe in providing equal access to quality education, which is why I work hard to provide funding to our students, and why I also included funding and language in several House Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bills that encourage federal agencies to support institutions and outreach programs that benefit minority students and communities. LCC President Dr. Ricardo Solis expressed his gratitude to Congressman Cuellar for his continuing support in making student success a longstanding tradition at the college. “Laredo Community College’s initial STEM grant has played a significant role in increasing access and promoting student success in the demanding fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics,” said Dr. Solis. “With the continuing support of our Distinguished Alumnus, Congressman Cuellar, and this new $6 million federal grant, LCC will be able to reach new heights of achievement in the STEM fields for the students we so proudly serve.”
10.11.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the awarding of approximately $7.8 million in federal funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s Airport Improvement Program to the Laredo International Airport. Congressman Cuellar announced $5 million in FAA funds last month, and $13.5 million in January, to the Laredo International Airport to help finance the airport’s ongoing efforts to reduce noise for those living near the airport and the full reconstruction of an existing taxiway. Congressman Cuellar announces a $7.8 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration at the Laredo International Airport with representatives from the City of Laredo and the Laredo Airport Advisory Board on Tuesday. Pictured from left to right are Mario Maldonado, Acting Laredo Airport Manager; Airport Advisory Board Member George Narvaez; State Rep. Richard P. Raymond; City Manager Jesus Olivares; Mayor Pete Saenz; Congressman Henry Cuellar; District V Council Member Roque Vela, Jr.; Mayor Pro Tempore and District IV Council Member Juan Narvaez; Laredo Airport Advisory Board Member Sylvia Praesel; and Marcus Moreno, Laredo Airport Advisory Board Chair. This new FAA grant of $7,819,990 will be used to make necessary improvements to the airport’s facilities, which include extending and rehabilitating the existing taxiway, installing guidance signs, and rehabilitating the cargo apron that has reached the end of its useful life. Specifically, the funds will allow for the installation of airport guidance signs and markings, and fund the rehabilitation of: · 850 square yards of existing apron pavement · Phase 9 of the airport’s apron rehabilitation project · Rehabilitation of 625 feet of an the existing Taxiway G pavement · 850 foot taxiway extension of Taxiway G to enhance safety, efficiency and capacity of aircraft movements · Phase 1 for the replacement of all airfield guidance sign fixtures to enhance aircraft visual guidance and enhance safety of aircraft movements. “These federal funds will allow the Laredo International Airport to make much-needed updates to its infrastructure that will enable safer and more efficient movement of cargo and passenger air traffic,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I would like to thank Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, Council Member Roque Vela, Airport Manager Mario Maldonado and all who helped to secure this funding and continue to support investments in Laredo’s transportation infrastructure and economic growth.” Mayor Saenz, Mayor of Laredo “Laredo’s airport has evolved from a military facility to one that serves its people with passenger service and our major trade industry; with this new added funding, we continue on the path of progress enabling us to increase operational capacity and the life of the infrastructure on our aprons, the area that all of the aircrafts traverse within the airport grounds,” said Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. Roque Vela, Jr., District V Council Member “I again express my gratitude to the team that made this grant happen. Our Congressman for his leadership in Washington, D.C. and our local leadership here in Laredo for maintaining the Federal Aviation Administration connections that keep the federal reinvestment coming in,” stated Council Member Roque Vela, Jr. “I am fortunate to have such a progressive facility in my district that continues to be enhanced.” Over the last 25 years the airport has received approximately $230 million dollars in federal funding.
09.29.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) congratulated Andrew Trautmann Elementary School on being a recipient of the 2016 National Blue Ribbon School Award, as announced this week by U.S. Secretary of Education John B. King, Jr. Only 329 public and private schools in the entire country, including only 21 elementary schools in Texas, received the honor this year. The award honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve at very high levels or have made significant progress and helped close gaps in achievement especially among disadvantaged and minority students. “I am a firm believer in education and increasing access to quality education is one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Education is the key to achieving the American Dream, which is why we must continue to expand educational opportunities for students of all backgrounds and ensure that our children have the tools they need to succeed. I congratulate Trautmann Elementary School Principal, Mrs. Zaida G. Gonzalez, as well as the teachers, staff, parents and students on this achievement and for their great work and commitment to bettering our community through education.” "National Blue Ribbon Schools are proof that we can prepare every child for college and meaningful careers, King said in a video message to honorees." Your schools are on the cutting edge, pioneering innovative educational practices—professional learning communities, project-based learning, social and emotional learning, positive behavior systems—making you shining examples for your communities, your state and the nation." Now in its 34th year, the National Blue Ribbon Schools Program has bestowed this coveted award on fewer than 8,500 schools. On Nov. 7 and 8, the U.S. Department of Education will formally recognize the 279 public and 50 private schools at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. All schools are recognized in one of two performance categories, based on all student scores, subgroup student scores and graduation rates: Exemplary High Performing Schools are among their state's highest performing schools as measured by state assessments or nationally normed tests. Exemplary Achievement Gap Closing Schools are among their state's highest performing schools in closing achievement gaps between a school's subgroups and all students over the past five years. The Department invites National Blue Ribbon School nominations from the top education official in all states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Department of Defense Education Activity, and the Bureau of Indian Education. The Council for American Private Education (CAPE) nominates private schools. A total of 420 schools nationwide may be nominated each year. View the Secretary King’s video to the honorees here: https://youtu.be/heb5Mtr51BM Laredo’s Andrew Trautmann Elementary is mentioned here: https://youtu.be/heb5Mtr51BM?t=17m39s View Andrew Trautmann Elementary National Blue Ribbon profile here: http://nationalblueribbonschools.ed.gov/awardwinners/winning/16tx276pu_andrew_trautmann_elementary_school.html
09.28.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the latest statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) which show lower violent crime rates, including homicide, rape, aggravated assault and robbery, in cities along the Texas-Mexico border than in other major metropolitan areas across Texas and the United States. The data released by the FBI shows information gathered for 2015. “The border is often painted in an unfair light,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The people who characterize the border as a violent and crime-ridden place often have never visited or lived here. The FBI’s official crime statistics, for yet another year, demonstrate that the border is home to some of the safest cities in the United States. Violent crimes like murder and aggravated assault are much higher even in our nation’s capital than on the Texas border. These unfounded stereotypes about the border have the potential to hurt business and we need to stop this misinformation about the border.” The latest FBI crime statistics (2015) show: The murder rates in Detroit and Washington, D.C., were more than twice the murder rates in Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville and El Paso combined.The aggravated assault rate was significantly lower in border cities compared to other Texas and U.S. cities. Detroit’s aggravated assault rate was almost 19 times the rate in McAllen, Texas. Washington, D.C., was more than 10 times the rate of McAllen. The murder rates in Houston, Dallas, and San Antonio were more than twice the murder rate of Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville and El Paso, respectively. The robbery rates in border cities were less than half of the rates in Detroit and Washington, D.C., and significantly lower than Dallas or Houston. The rape rate was significantly lower, often by half or more, in Brownsville and McAllen than in most major cities in Texas, and in major cities like Chicago, Washington and Detroit Attached to this release are the following four charts: 2015 FBI Uniform Crime Reports. To access the latest FBI crime statistics, visit this link: https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2015/crime-in-the-u.s.-2015
09.28.2016	El día de hoy el congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, publicó las nuevas tasas de criminalidad del Buró Federal de Investigación (FBI por sus siglas en ingles), las cuales demuestran una menor tasa de crimen violento como homicidio, violación, asalto agravado y robo, en ciudades estadounidenses en la frontera de Texas y México. Las nuevas tasas son de estadísticas del FBI de 2015. "Muchas veces la gente habla mal de la frontera de Texas", dijo el congresista Henry Cuéllar. "La gente que caracterizan a la frontera como un lugar violento con altas tasas de criminalidad nunca han visitado y nunca han vivido aquí. Las estadísticas oficiales de criminalidad del FBI, por otro año, demuestran que la frontera es un lugar más seguro que muchas ciudades de los Estados Unidos. Los crímenes violentos como asesinato y asalto con agravantes son mucho más altos en ciudades lejos de la frontera, incluso en la capital de nuestro país, que en la frontera de Texas y México. Estos estereotipos falsos sobre la frontera tienen el potencial de perjudicar la actividad empresarial de nuestra región y tenemos que poner en alto esta información errónea acerca de la frontera". Las nuevas estadísticas de criminalidad según el FBI (2015) demuestran que: • Las tasas de homicidio en Detroit y Washington, D.C., fueron más del doble de las tasas de homicidio en Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville y El Paso combinados. • La tasa de asalto con agravantes fue significativamente menor en las ciudades fronterizas en comparación con otras ciudades de Texas y de Estados Unidos. La tasa de asalto con agravantes de Detroit fue casi 19 veces la tasa de McAllen, Texas. Washington, D.C., fue más de 10 veces la tasa de McAllen. • Las tasas de homicidios de Houston, Dallas y San Antonio eran más del doble de la tasa de homicidios de Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville y El Paso, respectivamente. • Las tasas de robo en las ciudades fronterizas fueron menos de la mitad de las tasas en Detroit y Washington, D.C., y significativamente menos de Dallas, Houston y San Antonio. • La tasa de violación fue significativamente menor, muchas veces por la mitad o más, en Brownsville y McAllen que en la mayoría de las ciudades importantes de Texas, e incluso las grandes ciudades como Chicago, Washington y Detroit. Se adjunta a este comunicado cuatro tablas que demuestra esta información: 2015 FBI Uniform Crime Reports. Para acceder a las últimas estadísticas de la delincuencia del FBI, visite este enlace: https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2015/crime-in-the-u.s.-2015
09.20.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the successful passage of H.R. 5591, a bill he authored to name the post office located at 810 North U.S. Highway 83 in Zapata, Texas, as the “Zapata Veterans Post Office.” Speaking today on the House Floor, Congressman Cuellar stressed the importance of naming this post office in honor of all veterans. Zapata is home to 503 veterans, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. “Across my district, there are many examples of fine men and women who have honorably served our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “An example would be the six Treviño brothers of Zapata; World War II veterans who served their country bravely and honorably. The Treviño brothers, just like veterans all across our nation, share a wonderful love for country. We owe our freedoms to them, which is why I am recognizing them with the dedication of this post office.” Teodoro, Leopoldo, Antonio, Anselmo, Filberto Jr., and Jose Manuel Treviño performed many acts of bravery, including taking down enemy plans and protecting soldier by using their own bodies as shields. Their courage and dedication to our nation demonstrate what it really means to be an American. Congressman Cuellar also thanked local veteran caregivers for their service to those returning home from duty. “I also thank the Veterans Services Office in Zapata County, one of many organizations that work tirelessly to provide the essential care to those who have returned home from service,” Cuellar added. Congressman Cuellar speaks on the House Floor on Tuesday, September 20 in support of H.R. 5591, a bill he authored to name the Zapata post office as the “Zapata Veterans Post Office.” The bill passed the House and is now awaiting approval from the U.S. Senate. View video of Rep. Cuellar speaking in favor of H.R. 5591 here: https://youtu.be/9IbFLfT4n6o Download the video here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/xf7hyjawo6nry0r/Cuellar1724.mp4?dl=0
09.19.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and the City of Laredo today announced $9,875,083 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to Laredo Transit Management Inc. for the first phase of construction and rehabilitation of the El Metro Operations and Maintenance Facility. The funds come from DOT’s Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Bus and Bus Facilities Grant Program. Nationally, the DOT is investing $221 million for new buses and bus facilities across the country. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) presents $9.9 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation to the Laredo Transit Management Inc. on Monday morning at the El Metro Transit Center in downtown Laredo. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) presents $9.9 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation to Laredo Transit Management Inc. on Monday morning at the El Metro Transit Center in downtown Laredo. From left to right are Asst. City Manager Roberts Eads, Asst. City Manager Horacio de Leon, District IV Council Member and Mayor Pro Tempore Juan Narvaez, Deputy City Manager Cynthia Collazo, District VIII Council Member Roberto Balli, District V Council Member Roque Vela, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, El Metro Acting General Manager Claudia San Miguel and El Metro Asst. General Manager for Vehicle Maintenance Joe Jackson. The nearly $10 million in federal funds to Laredo Transit Management Inc. will be used for the construction of the first phase of a two-phased project for the new El Metro Operations and Maintenance Facility, whose future site location will be at the intersection of Jacaman Road and Bartlett Avenue. The project is anticipated to receive matching funds $7,000,000 in City of Laredo sales tax and by $5,960,160 in in-kind match via real estate and labor. This grant is aligned with El Metro’s 25 year plan to nearly double in size with the construction of a new bus-oriented facility. Once complete, the transit center will allow the city to provide a safer, more reliable mode of public transportation and give the city the ability to expand to meet the community’s future needs. The new facility will have the capacity of housing a fleet of more than 70 vehicles. Specifically, today’s funds for Phase I of the project will be used to construct a new 17,000 square-foot administration center, a 36,000 square-foot maintenance facility, and a 6,000 square-foot bush wash and compressed natural gas (CNG) fueling facility. In the future, Phase II of the project will include the construction of a Park-and-Ride location. The federal government previously provided the City of Laredo and El Metro $2.2 million for the cost of design for the Operation and Maintenance Facility through a federal grant. El Metro’s bus transit passenger boarding’s are twice the national average and three times that of other systems in Texas. The current facility, located at 401 Scott Street in Laredo, was built in 1981 and served as the City of Laredo’s primary sanitation facility before being repurposed for use by El Metro in 1995. The condition of the facility, and the fact that it is land-locked an near a residential neighborhood prevents a much-needed expansion on its current site. “My office has been working with the City of Laredo to provide federal funding for this much needed expansion project that will benefit the entire community of Laredo,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Proper infrastructure and transportation are vital to the growth of our city. I thank Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, Councilmen Roberto Balli and Roque Vela, Jr., as well as the staff at El Metro for their dedication to the citizens of Laredo.” “A great opportunity has been given to Laredo with this grant that will help Laredo to grow its public transit system and begin a much needed revamp to this system that has been in the same facility on Scott Street for 25 years,” said Mayor Pete Saenz. “We thank Congressman for his leadership and advocacy, as well as the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Transit Administration for their gift to Laredo in the form of this grant.
09.15.2016	President Obama has proclaimed Sept. 12-16 as National Hispanic-Serving Institution Week in the United States. In commemoration of National Hispanic-Serving Institution Week and National Hispanic Heritage Month, which begins Sept. 15, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that he successfully included funding and language in several House Fiscal Year 2017 Appropriations bills that encourage federal agencies to support institutions and outreach programs that benefit minority students and communities. The language has passed the Committee and will need to be included in an end of year funding bill and passed by both the full House and Senate. Congressman Cuellar’s language calls on various federal agencies to ensure that their efforts reach the widest possible audience, including Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), and other minority serving institutions. Texas is home to several HSIs and HBCUs, many of which are located in the 28th District, whose population is more than 70 percent Hispanic. Congress and the Obama Administration have worked to improve educational outcomes and opportunities for every American, including Hispanics, through annual appropriations bills and the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics, by investing more than $1 billion in HSIs over ten years and by expanding Pell Grants and offering tuition tax credits. “I understand the importance of expanding higher education opportunities for young people, especially those in traditionally-underrepresented groups in our society,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I believe that education is the great equalizer in our country. But today, college is more expensive than it ever has been. As a graduate of Hispanic-Serving institutions and the representative for many of these institutions, I believe it is imperative that we work with federal agencies to enhance the opportunities for all Americans, especially minority students, so that everyone has an equal chance at climbing the educational ladder to success.” HSIs are degree-granting institutions with full-time enrollments that are at least 25 percent Hispanic and serve a higher proportion of low-income students than other institutions of higher education. The following HSIs can be found in the congressman’s district or the immediately surrounding areas: · Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) · Hallmark College (San Antonio) · Laredo Community College · Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) · Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) · Palo Alto College (San Antonio) · South Texas College (McAllen) · St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) · St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) · Texas A&M International University (Laredo) · The University of Texas at San Antonio · The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio · The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley · University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) · Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) Cuellar’s HSIs funding and language was included in the House Agriculture; Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies; Defense; Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies; Financial Services and General Government; Interior, Environment and Related Agencies; Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies; Legislative Branch; Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies; and Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies appropriations bills. Specifically, the congressman added the following to these appropriation bills: · In the Agriculture bill, Congressman Cuellar added language directing the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to partner with Hispanic-Serving Institutions on biotechnology programs. · In the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar included language calling on the National Science Foundation (NSF) to develop a new program focused on Hispanic Serving Institutions within 120 days of enactment and demonstrate at least a $30 million investment in this program by the end of the fiscal year. Further he ensured that HSIs will be represented in NASA’s STEM Education and Accountability Program (SEAP) and encouraged NSF to partner with HSIs on cybersecurity research. · In the Defense bill, Congressman Cuellar continued funding in the amount of $35.6 million for the Historically-Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions Program, this is $12 million above the President’s budget request. Cuellar also added language to encourage partnerships with HSIs within the National Security Education Program to ensure diversity within the Intelligence Community and to increase the number of analysts with proficiency in critical languages and critical studies, as well as improve science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) participation and opportunities for underrepresented minorities. · In the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar added $2.456 million for a total funding amount of nearly $19 million for the Minority-Service Institution Partnerships Program. Cuellar also added language that encourages the Department of Energy’s National Laboratories and the National Nuclear Security Administration to continue developing partnerships with HSIs. · In the Financial Services and General Government bill, Congressman Cuellar added language to speed up the hiring process within the federal government for qualified employees, while focusing on recruiting talent for federal agencies from HSIs. · In the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar secured language encouraging all agencies funded by this bill to support educational and outreach programs to reach HSIs. Congressman Cuellar also included language supporting the Smithsonian Latino Center and their goals of expanding Smithsonian Institution programs, exhibitions, collections and public outreach. The Smithsonian Latino Center is focused on ensuring Latino art, history, and culture are represented throughout the Smithsonian Institutions. It also supports scholarly research, educational programs, and professional development programs. · In the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar continued funding in the amount of $177.5 million; $107.8 million for the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program, and $9.7 million for the Promoting Post Baccalaureate Opportunities for Hispanic Americans Program. · In the Legislative bill, Congressman Cuellar added language that encourages the Library of Congress to increase cooperative partnerships, fellowship opportunities and curriculum program associations with HSIs. · In the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar inserted language encouraging the VA to work with medical schools at HSIs. · In the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies bill, Congressman Cuellar included language encouraging the U.S. Department of Transportation to partner with HSIs for research on minority-owned businesses. To see the language Congressman Cuellar added, please see the attached document, or click here.
09.06.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced the awarding of $5 million in federal funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airport Improvement Program to the Laredo International Airport. Congressman Cuellar also honored retired Laredo International Airport Manager Jose Luis Flores with a congressional certificate of recognition for 32 years of service with the City of Laredo, where he administrated over $200 million in federal funds and oversaw several major projects, including the construction of the first Mexican Customs pre-clearance facility in the United States. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the City fo Laredo on Tuesday announce a $5 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to the Laredo International Airport to help nearby residents with air traffic noise. Pictured from left to right are Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz, Laredo City Manager Jose Olivares, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Laura Flores and retired Laredo International Airport Manager Jose Luis Flores, City Councilman for District V Roque Vela Jr., and Acting Laredo International Airport Manager Mario Maldonado. The FAA grant will be used to help finance the airport’s ongoing efforts to reduce noise for those living near the airport. In January, Congressman Cuellar announced a $6 million noise mitigation grant, which has helped reduce noise in 126 homes around the airport. As the Laredo International Airport continues to grow, a higher volume of air traffic has contributed to noise for residents in the surrounding neighborhoods. This funding will allow the airport to implement noise mitigation measures for residences within 65-69 Day-Night Average Sound Level (DNL), a noise metric used by FAA to measure effect of noise on residential populations over a 24 hour period. The noise program, which began in 1994, allows homeowners within the designated noise contour area to choose between three mitigation measures. The program permits the airport to acquire the property, purchase an easement (at eight percent of the appraised value of the property) or insulate the home. The funds announced today will provide sound insulation for 26 residences; enable the purchase of 26 residences and the acquisition of avigation easements of 59 residences. The City of Laredo anticipates that this grant will help reduce noise complaints for approximately 411 residents, or 111 homes. To date this year, Congressman Cuellar has secured over $11 million in federal funding from the FAA to address aircraft noise for 237 homes near the Laredo International Airport. “As our airport continues to grow, we must also make sure that our nearby neighborhoods are heard and taken care of during this process,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will continue to provide the necessary assistance to residents who live near the airport. I thank retired Airport Manager Jose Luis Flores, who has been instrumental in securing federal funds that have improved airport infrastructure and enhanced the safety of Laredo’s residents and travelers over the course of his 32-year-long career. I also thank Mayor Pete Saenz, Council Member Vela, and everyone involved in this important project.” "As our city progresses, the expansion of our airport facility is essential. We are thankful that Congressman Cuellar continues to lend his support to the airport facility. This federal funding is not only important for the growth of the airport, but also for the growth of the entire city of Laredo," said Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. Council Member for District V, Roque Vela, Jr., whose boundaries include the Airport, commented on the FAA grant announcement, "I am so thankful for this added funding that will assist us in maintaining these services for noise mitigation and outreach program." Over the last 25 years the airport has received over $220 million dollars in federal funding.
08.31.2016	Today, Congressman Cuellar, the City of Laredo, and representatives from Tamaulipas, Texas and the U.S. federal government met to discuss a proposed expansion project for World Trade Bridge in Laredo, also known as Laredo International Bridge IV. The current bridge, which officially opened on April 15, 2000, has eight lanes and is used for commercial traffic only. Stakeholders at today’s meeting would like to see expansion of the bridge infrastructure, with more lanes, including a lane for pre-cleared cargo. A pre-inspection program would reduce customs processing times and transnational costs by allowing joint export and import inspections of shipments. This would expedite the flow of goods across our border, reduce congestion and enhance the economic competitiveness of both Laredo and Nuevo Laredo. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the City of Laredo, the City of Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Texas and the U.S. federal government met on Tuesday to discuss a proposed expansion project for World Trade Bridge in Laredo. “Today’s meeting with stakeholders was important for us to discuss what improvements we should make to the World Trade Bridge,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The Port of Laredo is already a competitive trading area, but by providing the right infrastructure, we can increase international trade, bring more jobs and make our roads and bridges safer. The ideas presented today will go a long way toward enhancing security and relieving congestion and wait times at the bridge. I thank the City of Laredo, the City of Nuevo Laredo, and all our representatives from GSA, CBP, Texas and Tamaulipas for their support towards these goals.” Jesus Olivares, Laredo City Manager: "Strategically these enhancements will allow Laredo to remain the preeminent inland port in the United States and provide infrastructure upgrades that will give us an advantage over all other port competitors in being able to process all types of cargo vehicles with even more ease and efficiency. These new projects aim to pre-clear cargo, much the same way we are collaborating at the Airport. And address logistics movement of containers that may be empty and facilitating the reload process to move more goods, thus increasing the amount of commerce moved through our Bridge System and port," stated Laredo City Manager, Jesus Olivares. Pete Saenz, Laredo Mayor: "It was important to bring together authorities from both the United States and Mexico, at all levels, to discuss these proposed enhancements to our infrastructure at the World Trade Bridge; it is imperative to have all of our stakeholders understand the scope and goal of this project, which in the end will benefit Laredo, Texas and United States and our counterparts in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas and Mexico. This project proposes to increase capacity to process international commerce, thus mutually growing the regional economy," commented Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz.
08.25.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development - Texas State Director Paco Valentin and Texas Rep. Tracy O. King (D-80), along with representatives from Webb County and Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation, announced today a $2 million project that will help remove levels of arsenic in the water supply in Bruni, Texas. A $1.6 million check from Congressman Henry Cuellar’s office and USDA Rural Development is presented to Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporatoin Thursday to help remove levels of arsenic in the local water supply. Pictured from left to right are Gloria Reyes from USDA Rural Development; Priscilla Chapa, Oscar Chapa and President Alan Garza from Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation; Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina; Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28); Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development Texas State Director; Rep. Tracy O. King (D-80); Elizabeth Garza and Roel Gomez from USDA Rural Development. Currently, Bruni’s two operating wells, which are managed by Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation, exceed the arsenic standard set by the Safe Drinking Water Act and are in violation of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) rules governing levels of arsenic. Congressman Cuellar worked with federal and local officials to provide funding for this project. The total funding of $1,617,000 million includes a $1,375,000 grant and a $242,000 loan from USDA Rural Development. Webb County will contribute $400,000 for planning and designing costs, bringing the total investment of the project to $2 million. The project will include approximately 5,000 linear feet of four-inch water line and the construction of a micro-filtration facility that will include pumps, strainers and auxiliary equipment. As the project develops Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation will submit piloting reports to TCEQ to demonstrate that the treatment technique will produce finished water that meets the Drinking Water Standards and Reporting Requirements for Public Water Systems. “Everyone deserves clean and safe drinking water,” said Congressman Cuellar. “When I heard about this issue, we wasted no time in talking with Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation, Webb County and USDA Rural Development to make sure we could provide funding to upgrade the wells. I thank USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin, Webb County Commissioner Wawi Tijerina and Webb County Judge Tano Tijerina for their tremendous help in securing safe water for the residents of Bruni.” Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development Texas State Director: “Many of us take for granted easily accessible and safe drinking water in our home. The reality is that many rural communities, such as Bruni, struggle to provide quality potable water for their consumers. Rural Development is pleased to assist Bruni Rural Water Supply Corporation in making improvements to their existing water filtration system, ultimately allowing them to be in compliance with TCEQ and EPA regulations.” Rosaura “Wawi” Tijerina, Webb County Commissioner, Precinct II: “Improving the quality of life for Bruni residents has been one of my priorities in this area. I want to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his work to acquire this much needed funding. Thank you, as well, to USDA Rural Development and Texas USDA Director Paco Valentin for his support. For the first time in the history of this century-old community, the children can turn on the kitchen faucet and drink the water without anxiety or fear of contaminants. I will continue to work tirelessly to make this community and all of Webb County a better and safer place to live.” Tano E. Tijerina, Webb County Judge: “I want to thank everyone for their collaborative efforts in this much needed project. With the assistance of everyone we will continue to fortify our Bruni Water System to not only meet TCEQ standards but to provide safe drinking water for the constituents of the Bruni area.
08.24.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he introduced a resolution, H.Res.833, calling on the federal government to find innovative ways to instill a culture of customer centered service across government and to recognize those federal employees who are delivering outstanding levels of service to the public. Congressman Cuellar has been striving to bring better performance and a more customer centered focus to government since he first took office as a Texas State Representative in 1987. A major step in this process was the passage of legislation he authored, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act (GPRAMA), in 2010. That legislation resulted in the creation of a government goal to deliver world-class customer service, to make it faster and easier for individuals and businesses to complete transactions and have a positive experience with the government. Since GPRAMA’s passage, there has been a healthy focus within government agencies to improve customer service, however polls show that a majority of citizens still have a negative view of government and believe the federal government can improve customer service. “Because quality service delivery increases citizen trust in Government and ultimately the business of Government is the business of customer service, I introduced this resolution calling on the executive branch to continue to find innovative ways to instill a culture of customer service within its agencies and departments,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Government is full of hard working and dedicated employees who are delivering exceptional service every day without getting the recognition they deserve and this resolution is intended to, as well, thank them for their service.” Creating a service culture is one of the greatest and potentially most rewarding challenges facing government today. “The delivery of government services touches every life in a myriad of ways, sometimes at the most stressful of times,” said Daryl Covey, Founder, Government Customer Service Community of Practice. “We applaud Representative Cuellar for introducing this Resolution recognizing the importance of high quality government customer service and honoring those at the front lines who do it daily."
08.23.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and representatives from Texas A&M International University (TAMIU), the One Star Foundation, the Lamar Bruni Vergara Charitable Trust, the League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) and Laredo First Assembly of God announced the awarding of $2.4 million in federal grants, and two matching donations totaling over $184,000 to TAMIU to provide incentives and opportunities to help university students who are migrant workers or seasonal farmworkers overcome the obstacles and difficulties of a migrant work schedule. Of the $2.4 million, $2,124,950 will come from the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) – College Assistance Migrant Program (CAMP), which will be allocated over five years to TAMIU, and $317,564 will come from the Corporation for National Community Service (CNCS). These funds come through the One Star Foundation, which is the administrator for the Federal AmeriCorps program. The Lamar Bruni Vergara Charitable Trust, a longtime University supporter and generous champion of literacy programs in Laredo, will also donate $180,897, and LULAC and the Laredo First Assembly of God donated $3,250, bringing the total combined investment to $2.6 million. With these funds, TAMIU will provide extended student support services, award students with scholarships towards educational expenses, hire appropriate staff and mentors to support the university students during their education, as well as 72 AmeriCorps members who will serve economically-disadvantaged students in local elementary schools through one-on-one literacy tutoring services. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and representatives from TAMIU, the One Star Foundation, the Lamar Bruni Vergara Charitable Trust, LULAC and Laredo First Assembly of God announced Tuesday the awarding of $2.4 million in federal grants, and two additional donations totaling over $184,000 to TAMIU to provide incentives and opportunities to help university students who are migrant workers or seasonal farmworkers overcome the obstacles and difficulties of a migrant work schedule. Download hi-res photo here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/8ibspa0dq32vlcr/IMG_3088_CROP.jpg?dl=0 Download original photo here: https://www.dropbox.com/s/vfuzrfcbkjtsuwj/IMG_3088.JPG?dl=0 “I understand the situation of these students who are migrant workers or seasonal farmworkers because my own parents were migrant workers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Everyone deserves an equal chance to reap the benefits of higher education, even those students whose grades suffer because they are working in the fields. These federal funds are an investment in our younger generation and our future local workforce. I thank TAMIU, AmeriCorps and all the local organizations who have come together to empower our community and open the doors of opportunities for those who are not familiar with collegiate life.” Dr. Pablo Arenaz , Interim President of TAMIU: “We are deeply appreciative of Cong. Cuellar and our multiple partners who have joined forces for these initiatives, all of which share a vision of a better future for our students and community,”. “It is through such strong alliances that we are able to best deliver on our mission of higher education for all students for Laredo and our region.” Dr. Julio F. Madrigal, Professor and Executive Director of Special Programs: “We know that Cong. Cuellar can personally attest to the will and drive of students who benefit from our CAMP program. We know that with this generous support, we will continue to dismantle real or perceived barriers to higher education for migrant or seasonal farmworkers. Dr. Philip S. Roberson, AmeriCorps Coordinator, College of Education Associate Professional: “We’re excited that this broad support will help us to powerfully extend our direct literacy tutoring services to local low-income elementary school students. These efforts have measurable impacts on student learning outcomes and help pave the way for school success and brighter futures. These additional AmeriCorps tutors add to similar services already in place in six Laredo elementary schools years serving hundreds of students annually. The Lamar Bruni Vergara Charitable Trust has supported the existing Literacy Enrichment Centers (LECs) over the past two years with generous funding of more than $630,000. Additionally, LULAC Chapter 7 has contributed $5,000 to support LECs in two LISD schools in the past year. Adding to these funded literacy programs, this AmeriCorps award truly extends services to many more Laredo children.”
08.09.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today visited with children at the Sacred Heart Children’s Home in Laredo, where he delivered over 500 children’s books from a wide range of genres from the Library of Congress. The books will be used for instructional and personal enrichment by the children teenagers of all ages at the home. Congressman Cuellar has delivered thousands of books to students, libraries and constituents in the 28th District of Texas since 2005. At the same time, Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar also hosted a separate event at the children’s home with Star of Hope, a non-profit organization whose mission is to help underprivileged children in our area. The organization, spearheaded by Sheriff Martin Cuellar and his wife Veronica, provided over 50 backpacks filled with school supplies to pre-kindergarten through high school students at Sacred Heart Children’s Home. “Many of these Library of Congress books cover a variety of topics that will spur the children’s interest in reading,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Reading opens many doors and I am a firm believer in equipping our younger generation with all the resources necessary in order to lay down a foundation for a success.” “I thank Congressman Cuellar, as well as Sheriff Martin Cuellar and Veronica Cuellar, for their continuous care and attention to the children of Sacred Heart Children’s Home throughout the years. These books and school supplies will go a long way towards the education and well-being of our children,” said Sister Maria Isidra Valdez, administrator of the Sacred Heart Children’s Home. Congressman Henry Cuellar, along with Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar and his wife Veronica Cuellar of Star of Hope, visit with children and staff at the Sacred Heart Children's Home in Laredo on Tuesday afternoon. Congressman Cuellar delivered over 500 children's books from Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., and Star of Hope delivered 50 backpacks filled with school supplies for the children at the home.
08.08.2016	LAREDO, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) is encouraging residents of Laredo, Webb County and the surrounding area to participate in the Texas-Oklahoma Passenger Rail Study Public Meeting to be held in Laredo on Tuesday, August 9, 2016 from 6 to 8 p.m., at the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) offices located at 1817 Bob Bullock Loop. The purpose of the meeting is for TxDOT to present the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Texas-Oklahoma Passenger Rail Study (TOPRS) and to receive public comment. This is an opportunity for members of the public to provide input that will help TxDOT and Federal Railroad Administration officials make informed decisions when finalizing the rail study, which includes the possibility of new high-speed passenger rail service from Oklahoma City to South Texas in Laredo. “This is a critical step forward for high-speed rail in South Texas, which I have been actively working on for years,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage the area’s residents to attend this meeting, listen to the presentation and make known their support behind this project to provide a modern and efficient public transportation option for Laredo and South Texas.” Due to construction, please use Clark Boulevard to enter the TxDOT offices. Background Information: The Texas-Oklahoma Passenger Rail Study is a planning-level study to determine the feasibility of developing passenger rail service in an 850-mile corridor running from Oklahoma City, Okla, to South Texas. The study looked at a range of options, from Amtrak-style heavy rail to true high-speed rail service. In 2008, Congressman Cuellar successfully passed an amendment that required a feasibility study to expand high-speed rail to South Texas. The amendment was included in H.R. 2095, The Passenger Rail Improvement Act of 2008. In early November 2010, Congress awarded Texas and Oklahoma a $5.6 million grant from the United States Department of Transportation to TXDOT to complete necessary corridor service planning studies for new and improved high-speed intercity passenger rail along an approximate 850-mile corridor, which mirrors the route of Interstate 35 between Oklahoma City and South Texas in Laredo. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. COMUNICADO DE PRENSA Lunes 8 de agosto de 2016 El Rep. Cuéllar Fomenta la Participación del Público en Reunión Sobre Estudio para Ruta del Tren de Pasajeros Texas-Oklahoma LAREDO, Texas – El congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas Henry Cuéllar recuerda a la comunidad de Laredo, el Condado de Webb y la zona alrededor a participar en la reunión pública sobre el estudio del tren de pasajero Texas-Oklahoma que se realizará en Laredo el martes, 9 de agosto de 2016, de 18.00h a 20.00hr (6 a 8 pm) en las oficinas Departamento de Transporte (oficinas de TxDOT) situados en 1817 Bob Bullock Loop Laredo, Texas. Durante la reunión, TxDOT presentará el Proyecto de Declaración de Impacto Ambiental (DIA-P, por sus siglas en inglés) para el Estudio de Tren de Pasajeros de Texas-Oklahoma (TOPRS) y se recibirán comentarios del público. Esta es una oportunidad para que el público proporcione información que ayude a TxDOT y la Administración Federal de Ferrocarriles a tomar decisiones informadas al momento de finalizar el estudio ferroviario, la cual también incluye la posibilidad de un nuevo servicio de trenes de pasajeros de alta velocidad de Oklahoma City al sur de Texas en Laredo. "Este es un paso fundamental para avanzar el tren de alta velocidad en el sur de Texas; un proyecto que he estado trabajando activamente durante años", dijo el Congresista Cuéllar. "Animo a los residentes de Laredo y el Condado de Webb para asistir a esta reunión, escuchar la presentación y dar a conocer su apoyo a este proyecto para proporcionar una opción de transporte público moderno y eficiente para Laredo y el sur de Texas." Antecedentes: El Estudio de Tren Pasajero de Texas-Oklahoma es un estudio a nivel de planificación para determinar la viabilidad de desarrollar el servicio de trenes de pasajeros en un corredor de 850 millas que va desde Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, al sur de Texas. El estudio se centró en una gama de opciones, desde estilo Amtrak ferrocarril convencional para el servicio ferroviario de alta velocidad verdadera. En 2008, el Congresista Cuéllar ayudó a asar una enmienda que requiere un estudio de viabilidad para ampliar el tren de alta velocidad para el sur de Texas. La modificación se incluyó en el proyecto de ley federal HR 2095, la Ley de Trenes de Pasajeros Mejora de 2008. A principios de noviembre de 2010, el Congreso otorgó Texas y Oklahoma una subvención de $ 5.6 millones del Departamento de Transporte de Estados Unidos al Departamento de Transporte de Texas para completar los estudios de planificación de servicios pasillo necesarias para la nueva y mejorada ferroviario interurbano de pasajeros de alta velocidad a lo largo de un pasillo aproximada de 850 millas, que refleja la ruta de la Interestatal 35 entre Oklahoma City y el sur de Texas en Laredo. ### El Congresista Henry Cuéllar es miembro del Comité de Asignaciones de la Cámara de Representantes de los Estados Unidos. Anteriormente, fue Representante Estatal para la Cámara de Representantes de Texas y Secretario del Estado de Texas.
07.27.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT)’s release of 10 service and route options for high-speed passenger rail service connecting Oklahoma City, Fort Worth, Austin, San Antonio, Laredo, and South Texas. The options are evaluated in the (Tier 1) Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS). This is a key step forward on a project Congressman Cuellar has been working on since 2008. This study evaluated the feasibility of developing passenger rail service for the 850-mile north-south corridor from Oklahoma City to South Texas. The study is separated into three segments: • Northern Section: Oklahoma City to Dallas and Fort Worth; • Central Section: Dallas and Fort Worth to San Antonio; • Southern Section: San Antonio to South Texas. The goal of the study was to identify routes that could meet future intercity travel demands, improve rail facilities, reduce journey times and improve connections with regional public transit service. In 2008, Congressman Cuellar authored an amendment to H.R. 6003, the "Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, which included South Texas in this study. In fiscal year 2012, FRA awarded a $5.6 million grant to TxDOT to fund a study of new and improved passenger rail service to meet future intercity travel demand, improve rail facilities, reduce travel times, and improve connections with regional public transit services as an alternative to bus, plane, and private auto travel. This DEIS, a planning level study, took into account the potential effects establishing a passenger rail could have on environmental, economic, and social resources, as well as the impact on travel demand and transportation. Based on these analyses TxDOT selected preferred routes and service types, conventional rail, higher-speed rail, or high-speed rail, for each section. In South Texas, two routes were selected for further study. The first route would begin in San Antonio and travel south on a new alignment outside existing transportation corridors to a station near the Laredo-Columbia Solidarity Bridge, then cross on a new railway bridge to join a new rail line which would continue to Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. This route has the potential for high-speed rail, operated at top speeds of 180-220 mph . (See Alternative S6 on attached map). The second route would begin in San Antonio and travel southeast to Alice. At Alice, the route would divide into three legs. The first leg would travel to San Diego, Texas; then to the Laredo area. The second leg would travel south along abandoned railroad tracks to McAllen and east to Harlingen and Brownsville. The third leg would travel east along the KCS Railway to Corpus Christi. This route has the potential for Higher-speed rail and would be operated at top speeds of up to 110 to 125 mph (See Alternative S4 on attached map) Following the conclusion of this Tier 1 study, a developer could conduct a tier 2 study for the preferred routes. A tier 2 study would provide project-level analyses, detailed design, alignments and refine cost estimates. These studies will give investors the information necessary to determine if a passenger rail is a worthy investment. A Record of Decision on a Tier 2 would allow the developer (State or Private) to begin final design, construction and operation of the service. "This is a critical step forward for high-speed rail linking major trade and energy centers in South Texas with metropolitan areas further north, something I have long-supported, said Congressman Henry Cuellar. This study outlines the routes that FRA and TxDOT consider high speed rail is environmentally feasible, and opens the door for the involvement of investors in the development of high-speed rail. It is my hope that this project will continue moving forward and that we will soon see high-speed rail not only from Oklahoma City to South Texas, but that Texans will eventually have the ability to travel by rail from San Antonio to Mexico.” More than 10 million people currently live along the 850-mile corridor, which is expected to grow by 39 percent in Texas by 2035. As a state with some of the largest metropolitan areas in the nation, spread out over hundreds of miles, Texas is now in high demand for alternative modes of transportation. Since the majority of the state’s population is centered in the eastern half of state, along I-35 stretching into Oklahoma City, the highways have experienced increased congestion. The DEIS study is now available for public review and comment through August 29, 2016, providing agencies and members of the public the opportunity to review the document, attend public hearings, and provide feedback. A public hearing will be held in Laredo on August 9, 2016 at 5:30pm in TxDOT Laredo District Office, 1817 Bob Bullock Loop, Laredo, TX 78043. TxDOT and FRA will take into account public input and subsequently issue a Final EIS and Record of Decision. Here is a link to the study. The Final EIS is projected to be released by early 2017.
07.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he helped secure more than $157.5 million, as well as important language in the State, Foreign Operations and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2017 which will strengthen the partnership between the U.S. and Mexico. This funding is $10.5 million above last year’s funding amount in the Omnibus bill which passed in December. In addition to this important funding, Congressman Cuellar included provisions calling on the State Department to increase academic, cultural, and professional exchanges between the U.S. and Mexico. “I have always viewed the relationship between the United States and Mexico to be a special one and believe these continued and increased funds are a step in the right direction,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The expansion of this relationship benefits both the U.S. and Mexico economically and culturally. Due to this, I included many provisions in the recent appropriations bill to encourage further cooperation between our two nations. I would like to thank the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Chairwoman, Kay Granger (R-TX-12), and Ranking Member, Nita Lowey (D-NY-17), for helping me on these important issues.” Provisions included by Congressman Cuellar (the full language can be found here): Academic Exchanges with Mexico: The Congressman included a provision to encourage the expansion and increases of U.S.-Mexico academic exchange programs at the high school, college, and post graduate level. The committee provided a total of $602,790,000 for all academic exchange programs, a $11,890,000 increase from 2016 Cultural and Professional Exchanges with Mexico: The Congressman included language to encourage continued support of special academic, professional, and cultural exchange programs. International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement: The Congressman successfully included $100 million in funding to support Mexico’s ability to combat organized crime, drug trafficking, and border security. This funding will also assist the Mexican government in strengthening criminal justice institutions and building a modern border system. Economic Support Funding: The Congressman secured $49,004,000 ($10 million more than 2016) to support Mexican programs regarding justice reform, promoting good governance, protecting human rights, implementing crime and violence prevention programs, and facilitating U.S.-Mexico trade and investment. Microenterprise and Microfinance Programs: The Congressman included language to support microenterprise and microfinance programs in Mexico, which promote economic development in Mexico. International Military Education and Training: The Congressman secured $1.5 million in funding to support military education and training programs in Mexico. Foreign Military Financing Program: The Congressman secured $7 million in funding to support foreign military financing programs in Mexico.
07.19.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Mayor Pete Saenz and the City of Laredo Health Department today announced the creation of a new office of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Laredo, with three CDC-contracted public health professionals. At Congressman Cuellar’s request, the CDC has contracted with Caduceus Healthcare to hire a contracted team of public health professionals that will work with the City of Laredo Health Department and other health professionals from Laredo to Brownsville, focusing on increasing surveillance, prevention, preparation and education to combat the Zika virus. The Zika virus has infected many people in Latin America, including Mexico, but has not yet been detected in domestic mosquitos in the U.S., and no cases of Zika have been reported in Laredo or Webb County at this time. “It is important that we dedicate resources to prevent further spread of the Zika virus, which can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus and can cause certain birth defects,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Currently, outbreaks are occurring in many countries and territories, including Mexico, and public health officials warn that the virus may make its way to U.S. border states this summer, which is why I personally invited the CDC to come to Laredo to monitor the situation and work with the City of Laredo to create detection and response plans for our community. I thank the CDC, Mayor Saenz and the City of Laredo Health Department for their support towards this mission.” This project will ensure that specially-trained public health professionals will be placed in Laredo through Caduceus Healthcare, with additional support from the CDC, to work directly with the City of Laredo Health Department to enhance surveillance and detection of Zika on the border. The City of Laredo Health Department and CDC will provide technical monitoring for the public health team to enhance a response to Zika along this international border, develop plans to respond to Zika and analyze threat and risk of Zika in the Laredo sector. The CDC and the City of Laredo Health Department will also be working to expand this project by partnering with both American and Mexican universities, such as la Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas, to increase surveillance and testing. Currently, the City of Laredo is working with the CDC, in partnership with the University of Arizona and Texas Tech University, on testing a smartphone app for self-reporting by the public for signs and symptoms for Zika. “Information is empowering, especially when it comes to issues of health and prevention of viruses and diseases,” said Mayor Saenz. “This virus, while relatively mild and preventable, does pose a threat given not only our geographical location, but also, the flow of international travelers through our community. I want to express my most sincerest gratitude to Cong. Cuellar for bringing the CDC and other health professionals to work with our City of Laredo Health Department and other partner agencies, for monitoring, prevention and, if necessary, response to the Zika virus.” “We look forward to working with the CDC and Caduceus Healthcare to further enhance our local actions to protect women and children against Zika,” said City of Laredo Health Department Director Hector F. Gonzalez, MD, MPH. Congressman Henry Cuellar and contractors working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the City of Laredo, Texas A&M International University (TAMIU), La Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas announce the presence of contractors to support CDC work in Laredo, Texas, on Tuesday morning at the City of Laredo Council Chambers. Pictured from left to right are Keila Castillo, epidemiologist contractor with the CDC; Sarah Pinto, health educator contractor with the CDC; Manuel Ramirez, public health advisor contractor with the CDC; Dr. María de la Luz Vázquez from La Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas; Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz; Dr. Glenda C. Walker, Dean of the Dr. F.M. Canseco School of Nursing at TAMIU; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Laredo City Manager Jesus Olivares; and Hector F. Gonzalez, MD, MPH, City of Laredo Health Department Director.
06.28.2016	Congressman Cuellar helps secure $33.5 million for Operation and Support of Tactical Aerostats and Re-Locatable Towers for Border Security WASHINGTON –Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he helped secure funding in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would provide $33.5 million for the operation and support of five tactical aerostats and 17 re-locatable towers that are being deployed by the U.S. Border Patrol to the Rio Grande Valley and Laredo to enhance their situational awareness and persistent surveillance capability. Each re-locatable tower and tactical aerostat system with payloads of infrared and high-resolution cameras, deliver immediate real-time day/night imagery that assist the Border Patrol with detecting, identifying, classifying, and tracking cross-border activity in high traffic areas along the U.S.-Mexico border. The 5 Tactical aerostats with operational altitudes of up to 5,000 ft. and 17 re-locatable towers have the combined capability of providing the Border Patrol with real-time monitoring of over 24,000 square miles and 400 linear border miles. Tactical aerostats have been transferred to U.S. Customs and Border Protection from the Department of Defense following use by U.S. forces for the protection of forward operating bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a member of the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, Congressman Cuellar supports collaborative efforts between federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies to better secure border communities. The use of innovative technological advancements at the border is imperative for increasing situational awareness, identifying surveillance gaps, and addressing the complex safety and security threats. “Representing the border, I understand the importance of border security,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have consistently supported the development of innovative policy solutions to address border security threats to ensure our border communities are safe. I am pleased that the Committee will provide the CBP with the funds necessary to support border patrol in South Texas and hope that we will continue to utilize forward-thinking measures, including advanced technology and training to address border security threats. I thank Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-TX-31) and Ranking Member Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA-40), for their help in adding this funding.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
06.23.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he, along with Rep. Andy Harris (R-MD-1), successfully included an amendment to the House Fiscal Year 2017 Homeland Security Appropriations bill to help small businesses who depend on H-2B, or temporary guest worker visas. The amendment and the bill passed the committee and now must be voted on by the Full House. Rep. Cuellar speaks at the House Appropriations Committee markup for the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2017 on June 22 in favor of an amendment to help small businesses who seek seasonal workers. Click here to view video. The H-2B visa guest worker program, which is capped annually at a rate of 66,000, is used primarily by American small businesses to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work in the United States in industries such as landscaping, independent hotels and resorts, forestry and others which can’t fill the jobs with American workers. Contrary to popular belief, guest workers pay all applicable taxes, including Social Security and Medicare, yet they do not collect any of these benefits since their visas are strictly for temporary seasonal work in the United States. Some American employers depend on the H-2B visa program to fill their seasonal employment needs as they are unable to find enough Americans to fill the positions. Despite extensive recruitment efforts to hire American workers, and hourly wages that often pay above minimum wage, the demand for seasonal workers often isn’t met by local labor pools. By law, every job must be properly advertised in the community where employers seek laborers, and American workers are guaranteed first chance at every job. When there are not enough American workers to fill demand, those jobs are later filled by H-2B temporary workers. Even then, demand for workers is even greater than what is allowed by the current 66,000 visa cap. To address this issue, Congressman Cuellar and Congressman Andy Harris (R-MD-1) co-sponsored an amendment that would allow workers who were in the United States on H-2B visas in the years 2014, 2015 or 2016 the opportunity to stay without being counted towards the 66,000 H-2B visa cap for fiscal year 2017. “Many small businesses in my congressional district and all across the country depend on H-2B visa guest workers to supply needed services,” Congressman Cuellar said. “H-2B temporary guest workers are vital to the nation’s economy and growth of my district and Texas. These seasonal jobs cannot be filled by American workers, which makes guest worker programs a smart and safe investment not only for small businesses and Americans who enjoy products and services, but the guest workers themselves who enjoy competitive wages, guaranteed work and protection in the form of oversight from federal agencies such as the U.S. Department of Labor. I thank Congressman Andy Harris (R-MD-1) for his help in securing this language.”
06.10.2016	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced Krystal Zigmond, a junior at East Central High School in San Antonio, Texas, as the winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for Texas’ 28th District. Her winning entry is a pen and ink drawing entitled “Who Rescued Who,” which depicts her and her dog shaking hands. “[My dog] was found on the side of the road in a trash bag. We’ve had her for two years now. It’s amazing how a stray dog can come from nowhere and be the best dog ever,” Zigmond said of her work. The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete for the chance to have their work displayed in the United States Capitol Building. Each member of Congress has the opportunity to host a local competition amongst high school students and select the winning entry. Zigmond was selected out of 180 contestants. “I congratulate Ms. Zigmond on her stunning artwork. Her piece of work truly captivates the bond between a girl and her dog,” said Cuellar. “I am proud of the talent she has amassed at such a young age. “This is a great accomplishment and she is truly deserving of this recognition. I hope her success inspires other students to create art and strive for excellence,” Cuellar added. As the winner of the art competition, Zigmond is invited to fly to Washington, D.C. this month, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, where she will attend a reception and ribbon-cutting ceremony with her family and Congressman Cuellar on Thursday, June 23, where her artwork will be displayed. She also will have the opportunity to meet students from other parts of the country and spend time with Congressman Cuellar and tour the nation’s capital. "Congratulations to Krystal on this very prestigious award. Knowing her, how hard she has worked, and the amount of time she has invested to become such a skilled artist, makes this award that much more meaningful,” said East Central I.S.D. Superintendent Roland Toscano. “The East Central community is so very proud of her and her outstanding accomplishment." “When I found out I was so overwhelmed I just started crying, because I never thought I’d win anything like this,” Zigmond said. “I’ve never been to D.C. before. I’m so excited.” First launched in 1982, this year marks the 34th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, close to 700,000 high school students have participated in the program.
06.10.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the House Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation Appropriations bill designed to ease rail congestion at international rail crossings and address the problems posed by transporting hazardous materials through border crossings. Congressman Cuellar also secured $25 million dollars of new funding for international rail crossing in the bill that was approved by the U.S. House Appropriations Committee recently and now must be voted on by the full U.S. House. The language stems from concerns originally outlined in a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), prepared at the request of Congressman Cuellar, which detailed the effects of high volumes of international freight rail in the city of Laredo. The GAO’s report zeroed in on the negative effects rail congestion has on Laredo and found that 22 trains travel through Laredo every day, generally 11 are U.S.-bound and another 11 are Mexico-bound, according to officials from U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). In Laredo, there are more than 80 points where railroads cross at streets used by drivers. Most disruptive are the 13 downtown railroad crossings, which halt drivers going to school, to work, to shop or to Mexico. According to CBP officials, a single stopped train in downtown Laredo can stretch nearly two miles from the border to Interstate Highway 35, causing massive congestion on local roads and lost money and productivity. To address this issue, Congressman Cuellar included language in the appropriations bill directing the United States Secretary of Transportation to implement recommendations outlined in the GAO report, which would improve: · The availability of data to quantify freight trends on railroads and the impacts they have on local traffic congestion · Adjust the maximum allowed train speeds for certain trains through Laredo’s cargo inspection center · Work to address delays associated with crew changes · And continue to work with state and federal agencies and their Mexican counterparts to best address congestion at international rail crossings This provision also directs the Federal Railroad Administration to provide the U.S. House Appropriations Committee with a report on its progress in implementing these changes within 90 days of the bill’s enactment. Congressman Cuellar also seeks to help ease the stresses placed on international rail crossings by securing $25 million in grants from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). The new funding would be available for Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvement Grants. Finally, Congressman Cuellar is also concerned about safety issues in the transportation of hazardous materials across the U.S.-Mexico border, including by rail. To address this issue, Congressman Cuellar included language in the appropriations bill directing DOT’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration to work closely with local governments, like Laredo, to reduce the risks associated with the transportation of these materials. “As a Laredoan, I am personally aware of the issues posed by rail congestion and hazardous materials traveling through our port regularly,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The congestion issue presents problems for the smooth passage of traffic and prevents additional freight traffic from making its way through Laredo, which presents our community with an economic loss. “The issue of safe transport of hazardous materials is one that cannot be ignored. We need to maintain a fast and robust rail trade with Mexico, but we also need to ensure we do it in a safe way. That is why I have included this language in the THUD appropriations bill so that the Port of Laredo continues to grow for the benefit of our community.” To see the language Congressman Cuellar added, please see the attached document here.
06.02.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to encourage the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to find ways to reduce veteran homelessness on the U.S.- Mexico border. The bill was passed out of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday and now heads to the floor for a vote by the full House. This is a problem that hits the 28th Congressional District hard, and it is one Congressman Cuellar is tackling from multiple fronts given existing coordination between HUD and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on a project known as HUD-VASH, which provides vouchers to homeless veterans to find housing. The language marks the first time that HUD will undertake a comprehensive approach to tackle the problem of veteran homelessness, a problem that can particularly hurt veterans trying to adjust to civilian society after the difficulties of war, up and down the U.S.-Mexico border. In addition to his efforts to tackle veteran homelessness, Congressman Cuellar is working on a more general strategy to reduce homelessness in Laredo with the help of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness. This effort will cut across government agencies to ensure that every resource is being used properly to end homelessness. In the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which passed the House last week, Congressman Cuellar included language encouraging the VA to seek out more creative ways of working with local service agencies, especially in small and rural communities, to reduce veteran homelessness. He also included language to help newly housed veterans furnish their new places of residence. Complementing his Military Construction and Veterans Affairs language, Congressman Cuellar’s THUD language recognizes the importance of the veteran homelessness issue, but it focuses in particular on the Point-in-Time Homeless Survey. This survey, taken annually by HUD, is used as a sort of yardstick for determining how much assistance is needed in the form of vouchers for veterans in a given area. Historically, however, the survey has undercounted veterans in areas along the border, where many cross over to Mexico. For instance, in early 2016, HUD counted 15 homeless veterans in Laredo in its survey this year; however, the Laredo Homeless Coalition, an advocacy group for the local homeless population, has estimated that Laredo has 107 veterans either homeless or at risk of homelessness. In the case of the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic, staff are requesting an increase in HUD-VASH vouchers. “I am disappointed that so many veterans in our area have to suffer the fate of homelessness after coming home from war,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Especially as Memorial Day approaches, I am concerned that we are not doing enough for those who have served our country so bravely and admirably. By including this language into the THUD appropriations bill, I hope to make sure that those who have protected our nation don’t return home empty-handed.” To see the language Congressman Cuellar included, please click here.
06.02.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to encourage the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to find ways to reduce veteran homelessness on the U.S.- Mexico border. The bill was passed out of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday and now heads to the floor for a vote by the full House. This is a problem that hits the 28th Congressional District hard, and it is one Congressman Cuellar is tackling from multiple fronts given existing coordination between HUD and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on a project known as HUD-VASH, which provides vouchers to homeless veterans to find housing. The language marks the first time that HUD will undertake a comprehensive approach to tackle the problem of veteran homelessness, a problem that can particularly hurt veterans trying to adjust to civilian society after the difficulties of war, up and down the U.S.-Mexico border. In addition to his efforts to tackle veteran homelessness, Congressman Cuellar is working on a more general strategy to reduce homelessness in his district with the help of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness. This effort will cut across government agencies to ensure that every resource is being used properly to end homelessness. In the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which passed the House last week, Congressman Cuellar included language encouraging the VA to seek out more creative ways of working with local service agencies, especially in small and rural communities, to reduce veteran homelessness. He also included language to help newly housed veterans furnish their new places of residence. Complementing his Military Construction and Veterans Affairs language, Congressman Cuellar’s THUD language recognizes the importance of the veteran homelessness issue, but it focuses in particular on the Point-in-Time Homeless Survey. This survey, taken annually by HUD, is used as a sort of yardstick for determining how much assistance is needed in the form of vouchers for veterans in a given area. Historically, however, the survey has undercounted veterans in areas along the border, where many cross over to Mexico. “I am disappointed that so many veterans in our area have to suffer the fate of homelessness after coming home from war,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Especially as Memorial Day approaches, I am concerned that we are not doing enough for those who have served our country so bravely and admirably. By including this language into the THUD appropriations bill, I hope to make sure that those who have protected our nation don’t return home empty-handed.” To see the language Congressman Cuellar included, please click here.
05.27.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee approved language in H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA, pronounced WUR-duh), to authorize a feasibility study on rehabilitating Chacon Creek in Laredo. The committee unanimously approved this legislation today. The language provides for a study on the feasibility of flood damage reduction, ecosystem restoration, and recreation along the creek and will turn the area, which has become a serious flood risk, into a vibrant and pleasant part of the cityscape. Congressman Cuellar has been a strong supporter of the Chacon Creek revitalization and other revitalization projects in the 28th District, working with stakeholders at the local, state, and federal levels to improve the quality of life for his constituents. Authorization for this feasibility study is a key step forward toward revitalizing Chacon Creek. The Chacon Creek watershed drains 155 square miles in Webb County, a greater area than any other watershed in the Laredo area. In 2015, the Army Corps of Engineers found that 73 residential structures along Chacon Creek will need to be permanently evacuated due to risk of flooding. The fear is that a large storm could produce dangerous runoff, harm human lives, and damage structures, including bridges and drainage structures, to the tune of around $20 million. The City of Laredo is taking measures to mitigate the risk, including buying properties within the flood plain, but federal assistance is needed. Under the bill, the Secretary of the Army has the authorization to begin a feasibility study on Chacon Creek, meaning that the Army Corps of Engineers may begin to study the viability of rehabilitating the area. “I have been working for many years to rehabilitate the Chacon Creek area and make it a safer and more pleasant area for the people of Laredo to use, so I look forward to seeing what can come from the newly authorized feasibility study,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Laredoans currently have to deal with a Chacon Creek that poses a flood risk and couldn’t until recently be used for recreation. This feasibility study to determine whether construction can go forward will complement well the other work that has already begun to revitalize the Chacon Creek area, such as the hike and bike trail that is currently being constructed in phases alongside it. I would like to thank Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA-9) and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4) for helping me secure this language for Laredo. I would also like to thank Transportation and Infrastructure Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Bob Gibbs (R-OH-7) and Ranking Member Grace Napolitano (D-CA-32) for their help.” Congressman Cuellar has been working to revitalize the Chacon Creek area since he started in Congress in 2005, when he secured $3.3 million through the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act to build the hike and bike trail. Since then, he has worked with the City of Laredo and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to address the flooding and safety issues.
05.27.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that C-SPAN’s Washington Journal, the live, national, call-in program, will air live next week from Laredo on June 1 and 2 at his invitation. Immigration and trade will be the topics of discussion for the featured guests, which include a live interview with Congressman Cuellar and host Greta Brawner as well as a taped interview with Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. Congressman Cuellar and other guests will have an opportunity to show viewers the reality of the border, dispelling negative perceptions and educating the country on the safety and trade-based prosperity of border communities like Laredo. The program airs live from 6:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. CST on Channel 21 on Time Warner Cable. “I thank Greta and the C-SPAN crew for accepting my invitation to Laredo to learn and share with their viewers the positive influence that trade that passes through Laredo has on the rest of the country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Next week’s broadcasts will showcase the powerhouse that is the Laredo port of entry, with its five bridges and 14,000 trucks crossing over every day. I would also like to thank the City of Laredo staff for helping coordinate on-the-ground interviews with local officials.” The first day’s programming will be broadcast from Gateway to the Americas Bridge, known locally as Bridge I, and will focus on the issue of immigration. That day’s show will begin with phone calls from viewers around the country about immigration policy while showing live shots of Bridge I and air parts of an interview filmed with Mayor Saenz in April. “Our hope with these interviews and the presence of national media in Laredo is that the rest of the country will get a true understanding of the border and border issues,” said Mayor Saenz. “It is up to us to dictate that conversation and not let anyone else misrepresent Laredo and the border.” Other guests for the Wednesday program include: · Brandon Darby, Managing Director and Editor for Breitbart TX, to talk about legal and illegal immigration in this border town; · Nelly Vielma, local immigration lawyer, who will discuss practicing immigration law in the area and laws on the book related to citizenship and deportation; and · Alfredo Corchado, author and Dallas Morning News Mexico City Bureau Chief, to talk about the cartels in Mexico, including the violence and smuggling of humans and narcotics. Corchado, a Mexican-American journalist, wrote Midnight in Mexico: A Reporter's Journey through a Country's Descent into Darkness. The next day, Thursday, June 2, the show will be live from World Trade Bridge, focusing on the all-important topic of trade. The show will begin with a live shot of the World Trade Bridge, where 6,000 trucks cross the U.S. border from Mexico every day. Guests for that day’s program include: · Congressman Cuellar on how trade benefits Laredo and the country · Lynn Brezosky, trade reporter with San Antonio Express-News, who will begin the conversation about the flow and volume of trade across the Laredo border; · Bob Cash, State Director for Texas Fair Trade Coalition, who is a critic of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
05.25.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of language in the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations bill that encourages the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and local public housing authorities to reduce the number of residents who exceed the maximum income requirements (“over-income residents”) in order to provide housing assistance to vulnerable persons and families who are most in need. The bill passed out of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee Tuesday. The language also directs HUD to provide the Appropriations Committee with a report identifying measures that it is taking to address over-income tenants 180 days after enactment. A 2015 HUD Inspector General report found that more than 25,000 families in government-subsidized housing across the country earned more than the maximum amount allowed. Forty-seven percent of those families earned more than $10,000 more than allowed. In keeping with the congressman’s push for affordable housing, he also successfully included language in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill to support homeless veterans with government-subsidized housing via the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program (HUD-VASH). The bill passed the full House last week. Within the Fiscal Year 2017 THUD funding bill, Congressman Cuellar helped secure $2.5 billion for grants for homeless assistance, an increase of $237 million over current levels. The funding will not only renew high-performing housing programs, but bring us closer to ending homelessness. In February of this year, the House unanimously approved the Housing Opportunities Through Modernization Act (H.R. 3700), a bipartisan bill making targeted reforms to federal housing programs, including rental assistance provisions that would deliver important benefits to low-income families, seniors and people with disabilities. “Many of our families in my district and across the country are in need of housing assistance,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Many times, the demand is greater than what can be supplied. That is why it is important for HUD and local public housing authorities to enforce income eligibility limits so that self-sufficient families can transition to non-subsidized affordable housing while HUD and local public housing authorities take care of those who are most in need. “As the representative for one of the poorest areas in the country, I understand the need for affordable housing for families and individuals in my district, which is why I introduced this language to encourage HUD to find solutions to this issue. It is my hope that HUD and local public housing authorities will work together to make sure we are providing the most care to the most needy in our communities. I thank THUD Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL-25) and Ranking Member David Price (D-NC-4), as well as Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY-5) and Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY-17) for their help in adding this language.” To see the language the congressman included, please click here.
05.24.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the Fiscal Year 2017 U.S. House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations (THUD) bill that will encourage participation from city and county governments in the selection of Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) projects, or those designed to alleviate congestion caused by international commercial traffic. The bill passed out of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee today. Late last year, the congressman worked to include language in the most recent highway bill to give states more flexibility to invest in border infrastructure affected by international commercial traffic. The highway bill language, which will generate an average of $3.67 billion per year for the next five years for Texas transportation projects, creates a CBI Reserve Fund, giving border states more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds. Under the highway bill, states like Texas can reserve up to 5 percent of statewide Surface Transportation Funds, used to preserve and improve conditions on roads, for projects along the border. This set-aside provides funding certainty and allows stakeholders and border communities to advocate for border infrastructure. These funds are vital given the trade done by border communities like those in the congressman’s district. The amount of truck traffic this commerce generates places a great strain on border roads, thus the need for set-aside funds. Now the congressman is trying to give the local governments of these border communities greater leverage in determining where CBI funds go. Through the congressman’s recently secured appropriations language, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will encourage border state departments of transportation to include the governments of cities and counties along the border, those most impacted by CBI and whom CBI is intended to support, so that they have a greater voice in determining how these funds should be used. “The language I have included in the Transportation Appropriations bill is meant to bring those affected to the table when it comes to CBI projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “When local communities in my district like Laredo were recently left out of discussions on project selection, I knew something had to be done. “Along with my colleagues, I have fought to make additional funds available to the border communities we serve. The large volumes of traffic passing over the border across South Texas place a tremendous strain on our border transportation infrastructure making it imperative that the infrastructure around our nation’s ports and trade centers remain in peak condition to ensure our economy keeps moving forward. I am looking forward to giving the local communities I serve a greater say in how their border infrastructure funds are put to use locally so that they can be fully included in future projects. I would like to thank THUD Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL-25) and Ranking Member David Price (D-NC-4), as well as Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY-5) and Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY-17), for their help in adding this language.” “I thank Congressman Cuellar for working to include this language in the House Transportation Appropriations bill,” Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz said. “As the mayor of a growing and economically important city that has not always received the transportation funds it is due, I will be making sure under my leadership that the City of Laredo is fully engaged in project selection discussions under this bill.” “As the President of a bridge connecting the western portion of the Rio Grande Valley to Mexico, I know how valuable community input is to the allocation of coordinated border infrastructure funds,” said Sam Vale, president of the Starr-Camargo Bridge Company. “Allowing local communities greater input in the selection of projects can only allow for a more equitable distribution of funds.” To see the language Congressman Cuellar included, please click here.
05.24.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will authorize plans tomorrow by the United States General Services Administration (GSA) for a new federal courthouse in San Antonio. As the congressman previously announced, the GSA transmitted its plans for a new federal courthouse to Congress in late April following the congressman’s work to include appropriations in last year’s government funding package for a new courthouse in San Antonio for the Western District of Texas. The plans call for $132.6 million to complete the design and construct the new courthouse, which will include eight courtrooms and accommodate 13 judges. The approximately 305,000-square-foot courthouse will be built on the site of the former City Police Headquarters at 214 West Nueva Street. The new courthouse will consolidate all of the district court and associated U.S. Marshals Service space into one facility. Under federal budgeting guidelines, funds must both be authorized and appropriated by separate committees in both the House and Senate before they can be disbursed. As a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar secured the funds, or appropriations, for the San Antonio project in the government funding package last year, and tomorrow’s authorization by the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will mark the go-ahead for the beginning of construction on the new courthouse. The U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works previously granted authorization of these funds. The funds for a new San Antonio federal courthouse are badly needed. The existing John H. Wood, Jr. U.S. Courthouse serves as the seat of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas and is consistently ranked as one of the busiest federal courthouses in the country; however, it was never intended as a judicial facility. The courthouse was built nearly 50 years ago as a movie theater for the 1968 World’s Fair and lacks many basic requirements for a courthouse. Judges, jurors, prosecutors and visitors often pass defendants charged with violent crimes in corridors around the building. The building lacks a protected perimeter; tests positive for high levels of lead and iron contamination in its water, likely due to poor pipe construction; and is missing proper heating and air conditioning controls, not to mention asbestos and mold in and around the HVAC systems. Physical and environmental safety issues aside, the courthouse has nowhere near the capacity needed for current staffing levels. Originally housing two judges and 24 staff, the building is now home to seven judges and more than 280 staff. All of these factors place unneeded stress on a busy federal judicial district. "The Wood Courthouse has kept the Western District going for nearly 50 years, but it unfortunately does not have the capacity to support it any longer," Congressman Cuellar said. "I worked with colleagues late last year, including Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) and San Antonio colleagues Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX-21), Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23), Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX-35) and Congressman Joaquin Castro (D-TX-20), to secure the needed appropriations for this project, and now it can go forward with the necessary authorization. Having a new, state-of-the-art federal courthouse for this busy federal judicial district will keep the users of the facility safe and will allow for better administration of justice. In addition to Sen. Cornyn, I would like to thank U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA-9), Transportation and Infrastructure Economic Development, Public Buildings and Emergency Management Subcommittee Chairman Lou Barletta (R-PA-11) and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4), as well as Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman James Inhofe (R-OK) and Ranking Member Barbara Boxer (D-CA) for their assistance in moving this process along. “I would also like to thank the following people working on the ground in Texas and elsewhere to make this courthouse a reality: San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor and the San Antonio City Council; Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff; Judge Xavier Rodriguez, U.S. District Court, Chief Judge for the Western District of Texas; Judge Orlando Garcia, U.S. District Court, Judge, the Western District of Texas; Bexar County Commissioner Chico Rodriguez and his colleagues on the Bexar County Commissioners Court; Sylvia Hernandez, GSA Regional Administrator; and Judge Brooks Smith, chair of the Space and Facilities Committee for the Judicial Conference of the United States.”
05.24.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included a number of provisions in the Fiscal Year 2017 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to help our nation’s immigration courts cope with a near half-million backlog of immigration cases by adding 25 immigration judges, new court space, a new electronic filing system and performance improvement measures. The 25 new immigration judges in the FY 2017 bill come in addition to the 55 Congressman Cuellar secured under the Fiscal Year 2016 government funding package, for a combined total of 80 new judges from FY 2016 and FY 2017. Currently, authorization exists for 374 judges; with the new judges added, that would bring the total up to 399. The bill was passed out of the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee today. The congressman’s language attempts to reduce the time immigration review cases spend in the system by addressing the root causes of their delays. Specifically, the provisions address a shortage of immigration judges and inadequate facilities and IT systems. The congressman’s language adds 25 new immigration judges to the bench. This follows on 55 judges added by the congressman in the FY 2016 omnibus package that went into effect late last year. These extra judges are sorely needed. Currently, the median length of time it takes to dispose of a case in which the defendant is released from custody (a “non-detained” case) is 665 days, or nearly two years. The average length for a case in which the defendant remains in custody (a “detained” case) is 71 days. The average immigration judge hears 75 to 90 cases a week, each of which can turn on complex circumstances. Immigration judges spend around 80 percent of their working hours hearing cases and the remaining 20 percent on motions and paperwork. Although it might seem minimal, the effect of mountains of paperwork on the speed with which cases are processed is substantial. Currently, the U.S. government’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), the office responsible for handling immigration cases, uses an antiquated paper-based filing system to keep track of cases. Congressman Cuellar has included language in the FY 2017 appropriations bill to allocate $1.706 million to upgrade this system to an electronic one. Looming over the issue of how to store files is where to store them and where to put the new judges. To prepare for their arrival, Congressman Cuellar secured $5.727 million in the bill for additional courtroom space and equipment. This new courtroom space will help speed up the processing of immigration cases by giving judges the underlying infrastructure they need to do their jobs. Congressman Cuellar secured these funds in order to ease the pressure on our immigration courts, but he has also included language to ensure that positive outcomes are derived from the assistance. In the appropriations bill, he inserted language directing EOIR to provide a report to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on how court space is being used within 90 days of enactment and set a new goal of disposing of detained cases within 60 days and non-detained cases within 365 days while protecting due process rights. “As the member of Congress for a stretch of the U.S.-Mexico border, I pay close attention to the way our government handles immigration cases,” Congressman Cuellar said. “For years I have been concerned about the backlog of immigration cases nearing half a million as a result of insufficient resources to handle them all. I have turned my attention to the underlying causes of delays in our immigration system so that we can properly address this pressing issue. I would like to thank my longtime friend and Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Chair John Culberson (R-TX-7) for his help in adding this language and these funds. I would also like to thank Commerce, Justice, Science Ranking Member Mike Honda (D-CA-17), Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY-5), and Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY-17). Finally, I would like to thank EOIR Director Juan P. Osuna, his staff, and the immigration judges across the country for their hard work in processing the heavy caseload of immigration cases on a daily basis.” “Reducing the backlog of deportation cases continues to be one of my highest priorities,” said Chairman Culberson. “Working with Representative Cuellar, I was pleased to add 55 additional immigration judges last year and 25 this year. Rep. Cuellar and I also developed performance measures to ensure deportations are handled promptly while protecting due process rights.” To see the language the congressman included, please click here.
05.23.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the passage by the full U.S. House of the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs House Appropriations bill. The bill includes language by the congressman that could provide for new burial places for veterans in Texas’ 28th Congressional District. The bill was approved by the House Thursday on a vote of 295-129. The language Cuellar introduced in the bill encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to look at the possibility of private donors offering land to establish new independent veterans cemeteries or satellites of existing ones. The VA aims to provide a burial place for all veterans within 75 miles of where they live. However, 8 percent of veterans across the country fall outside this range. Although eligible veterans can receive benefits from the VA for burial in non-VA cemeteries, the congressman would like to see local veterans have their own dedicated resting place. By donating land as a satellite cemetery, the 28th District could bypass the competitive application process for VA cemeteries. Currently, in order for a VA cemetery to be built, the Texas Land Commissioner must apply to the VA, with the blessing of the locality, and compete with other similarly-minded communities. With a number of plots of land already set aside by the state to be converted into veterans cemeteries, the process could be long and cumbersome. Designating a plot of land as a satellite of an existing cemetery would eliminate this problem. Aside from the distance issue, cost is another factor. Currently, the VA has a priority list of $247 million worth of projects pending to establish new cemeteries or rehabilitate existing ones, but only $46 million was allocated in FY 2016. Areas in Texas with the largest veteran populations have been prioritized, so Congressman Cuellar has also included language that encourages the use of public-private partnerships to help pay the costs of construction and upkeep of new cemeteries. “Our veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice by fighting for their country, so we should make sure that they are well taken care of after they return home,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Making it easier to choose to be buried close to home and close to their loved ones is the least we can do for our area’s veterans. With the passage of this bill by the full House, we are closer to making that happen.” In addition, Congressman Cuellar included language that would direct the VA to report on how it is reducing the number of veterans without reasonable access to burial. To read the language the congressman inserted into the appropriations bill, please click here.
05.23.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) released the following statements after President Obama signed their legislation to grant the Starr-Camargo Bridge permanent operating authority into law Friday: "As the representative for the Starr-Camargo Bridge, I understand how extending the bridge company's charter will bring economic certainty to the region," said Congressman Cuellar. "Today the United States trades an estimated $531 billion in goods and services with Mexico, our nation's third-largest trading partner, and this trade is only expected to grow in the future, especially under the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Contributing to this trade the Starr-Camargo Bridge supports the transit of 200-300 commercial trucks a day and around 4,000 cars. Unfortunately, the uncertainty of the charter’s sunset had begun slowing down investment in and around the bridge, at a time when we need the certainty this bill creates. I thank Sen. Cornyn for working on this legislation with me and advancing it through the Senate. I also thank Ed Royce, Chairman of the U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Eliot L. Engel, ranking member of the committee, for their support in advancing the bill through the House. Finally, I would like to thank House Majority Whip Steve Scalise for bringing this legislation to the floor." “Because of the bipartisan efforts of federal, state, and local officials, those who depend on the Starr-Camargo International Bridge finally have the long-term certainty they need,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I want to thank Rep. Cuellar for working with me as we continue to streamline efforts to boost trade and strengthen the relationship between south Texas and Mexico.” Operating authority for the Starr-Camargo International Bridge would have expired in 2032, according to the temporary authorization provided by Congress in 1962. Congressman Cuellar and Sen. Cornyn’s bill to authorize permanent operating authority passed the Senate unanimously on Thursday, March 17th, and the House on Monday, May 16th. The Starr-Camargo Bridge will now be on equal footing with other permanently-authorized international bridges in Texas and throughout the country.
05.23.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), McMullen County officials and the Atascosa Health Center participated in the grand opening of the new McMullen Community Health Center in Tilden, which was constructed with funding from McMullen County and staffed and equipped with funds from a New Access Point Federal Grant. The $900,000 grant helped establish the Tilden clinic and built another one in nearby Lytle, in Atascosa County. The Atascosa Health Center runs the two new clinics. New Access Point Grants, offered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), provide funds to increase access to medical care in rural areas and are won on a competitive basis. HHS has classified both McMullen and Atascosa counties as medically underserved areas. A medically underserved area has an insufficient number of medical facilities for the number of people living in the surrounding area. “Increasing access to medical care is a top priority for me, so I know the opening of these clinics will only strengthen this area,” Congressman Cuellar said. “McMullen and Atascosa counties suffer from a lack of necessary medical facilities and health care providers, so any way we can close this gap is another step closer to a healthier, happier and more productive citizenry. There is nothing partisan about it – nobody should have to suffer because they do not have reasonable access to a doctor or clinic. Hopefully, through clinics like the ones made possible here, we can someday reach a point where no one in the 28th District is underserved. I would like to thank Monty Small, CEO of the Atascosa Health Center, and his staff for working so hard to make these facilities a reality.” “The Atascosa Health Center, Inc. thanks Congressman Cuellar for his assistance in securing the funds to allow us to open the new clinic in Tilden as well as the clinic in Lytle,” said Small. “These clinics will allow us to better serve our local communities in addressing their health care needs and contribute to a healthier and stronger McMullen and Atascosa County.” “As the McMullen County Judge, I have a vested interest in seeing my constituents thrive,” McMullen County Judge James E. Teal said. “I celebrate the opening of the new clinic here in McMullen County for the new services it will bring to local residents. I also congratulate our neighbors in Atascosa County on the opening of their new clinic.”
05.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the passage by the full U.S. House of the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations. Congressman Cuellar included a number of provisions in the bill to support homeless veterans. The bill passed the House Thursday on a vote of 295-129. Congressman Cuellar’s language has several parts. First, it encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with local service agencies, particularly in small and rural communities, to ensure that voucher recipients of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program (HUD-VASH) are getting the most comprehensive services available. HUD-VASH is a cross-agency program charged with providing housing to homeless veterans. The provision also calls on the VA to partner with local and state governments to innovate ways to provide for homeless veterans and requests a report from the VA on the number of vouchers received by different types of veterans living in different types of areas. Congressman Cuellar is working to ensure that the resources available to homeless veterans, including through HUD-VASH vouchers, are sufficient. The number of vouchers that the VA gives out in a specific area is determined by a number of factors, including HUD’s annual Point-In-Time Survey, which is meant to be a snapshot of the local homeless veteran population. The second provision recognizes that homeless veterans’ challenges don’t stop at finding permanent housing. They also need basic necessities, such as furniture, basic household items and other basic assistance. The congressman’s provision requests a report to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on the feasibility of a program for organizations to provide these supplies to newly housed veterans. “I have long been a supporter of our armed forces and the men and women who sacrifice so much for our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That is why it is so essential that we honor their service by doing whatever we can to help our veterans succeed and thrive after returning to civilian life. The need for more comprehensive services for our community’s homeless veterans underscores the need for greater support for them in the form of housing. Once these veterans are housed, we must then make sure that we provide them with the furniture and supplies they need to live a productive life. We owe it to our veterans to make sure they are taken care of when they return home. With the passage of this bill by the House, we are closer to making this happen.” To read the language the congressman included, please click here.
05.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the passage by the full U.S. House of the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. The bill passed on a vote of 295-129 Thursday Thursday and includes language by the congressman to support homeless veterans in Laredo. Congressman Cuellar’s language has several parts. First, it encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with local service agencies, particularly in small and rural communities, to ensure that voucher recipients of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program (HUD-VASH) are getting the most comprehensive services available. HUD-VASH is a cross-agency program charged with providing housing to homeless veterans. The provision also calls on the VA to partner with local and state governments to innovate ways to provide for homeless veterans and requests a report from the VA on the number of vouchers received by different types of veterans living in different types of areas. Congressman Cuellar has been concerned about discrepancies between the number of homeless veterans in Laredo and the number of HUD-VASH vouchers available. While the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) counted 15 homeless veterans in the annual Homeless Point-in-Time survey in early 2016, the Laredo Homeless Coalition, an advocacy group for the Laredo homeless population, has taken these numbers and estimated that Laredo has 107 veterans either homeless or at risk of homelessness. The number of vouchers that the VA gives out is determined by a number of factors, including HUD’s annual Point-In-Time Survey, which is meant to be a snapshot of the local homeless veteran population. The Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic is concerned that not enough vouchers are available and is requesting an increase from 15 to 50. The second provision recognizes that homeless veterans’ challenges don’t stop at finding permanent housing. They also need basic necessities, such as furniture, basic household items and other basic assistance. The congressman’s provision requests a report to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on the feasibility of a program for organizations to provide these supplies to newly housed veterans. “I have long been a supporter of our armed forces and the men and women who sacrifice so much for our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That is why it is so essential that we honor their service by doing whatever we can to help our veterans succeed and thrive after returning to civilian life. The discrepancy between the number of homeless veterans in Laredo and the number of HUD-VASH vouchers available underscores the need for greater support for local homeless veterans in the form of housing. Once these veterans are housed, we must then make sure that we provide them with the furniture and supplies they need to live a productive life. We owe it to our veterans to make sure they are taken care of when they return home. With the passage of this bill by the House, we are one step closer to making this happen.” To read the language the congressman included, please click here.
05.19.2016	Today Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he included language in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that passed the full House last night to provide Laredo Community College (LCC) with additional space on the site of Fort McIntosh, near LCC. The Army Reserve currently is in possession of this historic building on the south west side of the Colbern United States Army Reserve Center in Laredo. The building is 725 sq. ft. and sits on a lot that is 1,825 sq. ft. Laredo Community College plans to use the additional space for educational and administrative services. Fort McIntosh once served as an Army base from 1849 until 1946 when it was deactivated. Much of the land and buildings that formerly made up Fort McIntosh are today part of the Laredo Community College campus. The building being transferred currently sits dormant and the Army Reserve has agreed to convey the building to the College to preserve the building and the Fort’s rich history. While the exact purpose of the building under LCC’s ownership has not yet been firmly cemented, LCC President Dr. Juan L. Maldonado has promised to work with the Laredo community to determine the best use for the building. Whatever purpose is chosen, the Texas Historical Commission is working with LCC on a preservation covenant to ensure the protection of the property when it leaves federal hands. “With growing needs for space on campus, I understand how important it is to look at new properties to accommodate all the college’s classes and students.” Congressman Cuellar said. “ I look forward to seeing what comes of Building P-36 and thank House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13) and Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA-9) for their assistance in including this language.” “Laredo is very proud of its history,” LCC President Dr. Juan L. Maldonado said. “Laredo Community College was founded on the grounds of Fort McIntosh, a historic landmark in both Texas and the United States. The residents of our community and LCC are morally responsible for the welfare and preservation of our historic landmarks. My vision for this building is to create a community project to support its restoration and allow the community and visitors to appreciate the great history of our city and college.”
05.19.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the passage by the full U.S. House of the Fiscal Year 2017 House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill. The bill includes language to increase telehealth options for veterans. The bill also includes the nearly $2.4 billion requested by the President for telehealth. The bill passed on a vote of 295-129 Thursday. Telehealth is the use of electronic and telecommunications technologies to support remote health care delivery. While in many cases veterans can access a medical office, this often does not extend to the specialty care they need or those who are in very rural areas or are infirm. Within the field of telehealth is telemedicine, which tends to refer specifically to health care services provided remotely via technologies such as the computer, phone or videoconferencing, although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. The funds and language, which encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to explore innovative ways to use telemedicine to care for rural and infirmed veterans, have to be passed by the full House and Senate before being sent to the President’s desk. The VA strives to provide the care and services our country’s veterans need close to home. Over the years it has implemented programs such as the Veterans Choice Program, which allows veterans who live more than 40 driving miles from the nearest VA medical facility to use local health care providers. With telemedicine, veterans can in some cases dial into a visit from home or videoconference with a VA health care specialist in a remote location from a VA health care facility. In 2015, the VA provided more than 2 million telehealth consultations to over 677,000 veterans, 45 percent of whom were in rural areas. For those veterans who cannot easily access a doctor’s office, Congressman Cuellar has embraced the adoption of new innovative technology and the possibilities of delivering high-quality medical care through telemedicine. Telehealth can improve veterans access to care by increasing the ways veterans receive medical advice and reducing the time and cost of having to travel to receive care. “Telemedicine is the wave of the future in medicine, not just for general practice but also for veterans’ care,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have continually committed myself to providing greater access to services for veterans, such as through my language to increase burial options for veterans, and with many veterans either too far or too sick to travel to a local doctor’s office, much less the nearest VA medical facility, I knew the VA needed to look for more innovative ways to take care of all our veterans. With the passage of this bill by the House, we are closer to making this happen. “Not only does telemedicine make receiving medical treatment easier, but studies have found it drives down health care costs in Texas and across the country. I’m not arguing that telemedicine is the appropriate course of action for all patients; however, with a disability compensation benefits program for 4.4 million veterans, 405,000 survivors of wars and nearly 35,000 veterans in the 28th Congressional District alone, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, it should be used as a tool when called for.” To read the language Congressman Cuellar included, please click here. The funds allotted in the bill are available as $1.171 billion for FY 2017 and $1.226 billion for FY 2018.
05.19.2016	The First Lady of Honduras, Ana Rosalinda García de Hernández, toured the Laredo North Border Patrol and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) facilities in Laredo today. She was personally invited by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28). First Lady García de Hernández also speak to students at Texas A&M International University regarding immigration and her tour of similar facilities in Houston, San Antonio and Laredo. Francis Atwell, right, Congressman Cuellar’s district outreach coordinator for Webb County, presented the First Lady with a congressional certificate of recognition at TAMIU on Friday. The visit was a follow-up to when Congressman Cuellar hosted the First Lady on a tour of the McAllen Border Patrol Facility and Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio in June 2014. It was the first time a representative from one of the Central American countries that are part of a surge of unaccompanied minors visited the border. During her tour in Houston, San Antonio and Laredo, First Lady García de Hernández visited with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Office of Refugee Resettlement and ICE officials regarding the treatment and status of unaccompanied migrant children and families from Honduras and other parts of Central America. In Honduras, first Lady García de Hernández leads a commission, created by her husband, Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández, to help address the crisis of unaccompanied minors leaving Honduras. She has traveled to visit many immigration detention centers in the United States, where she listens to the stories of mothers and children who have taken great risks in search of opportunity. She advocates for the human rights of these migrants and ensures that their experiences are not forgotten. About the First Lady of Honduras, Ana Rosalinda García de Hernández Ana Rosalinda García Carias was born on September 21, 1969 in Tegucigalpa, Municipality of the Central District, Honduras. She is the daughter of Jose Guillermo García Castellanos, a physician; and Carlota Carias Pizzatti. Ms. García Carias received her Law degree in Legal and Social Sciences, with distinction, from the National Autonomous University of Honduras (UNAH) in 1991. Her major concentration was commercial law. She met her future husband, Juan Orlando Hernández, while she was a student. The couple married in 1990, and they have three children: Juan Orlando, Ana Daniela, and Isabella. She and her husband have lived in the United States, where she pursued a Certificate of Graduate Studies in Public Sector Management at the University at Albany, completing her studies in 1995. In 2002, she passed the Lawyer and Public Notary examination from the Supreme Court of Justice of Honduras. The couple first began their social services work in Lempira, Honduras, where they demonstrated their commitment to humanitarian work by aiding the neediest families in that area of the country. In 2006 they began what came to be called “Por Una Vida Mejor” (“For a Better Life”), a pillar of success in the Honduran government program for families. Vida Mejor emphasizes early childhood education. While her husband was serving as President of the National Congress from 2010 to 2014, Ms. García Carias initiated, developed, and led social service projects through the Office of Social Development, building “Vida Mejor” to one of the most successful national programs. She has also had a major role in promoting the production of ecofogons (biomass cooking stoves) and the installation of water filters; aiding micro-businesses such as tortilla vendors and bakeries; establishing digital classrooms, student scholarships, English and math classes, empowerment training for women in handicrafts and personal skills; and promoting the expansion of orchards, and the installation of ceilings, floors, and toilets. These efforts continue to operate through the office of the Secretary of Development and Social Inclusion of Honduras. As First Lady of the Nation, and working through state and faith-based agencies and institutions, she leads, coordinates, and promotes efforts that address diverse important social issues in Honduras, such as putting a national plan in place for the prevention of teen pregnancy. In connection with the First Lady’s efforts to prevent child migration, the President has established, within the Inter-institutional Commission, the Task Force on the Migrant Child. The task force was created to reintegrate migrants who returned to their communities, with the goal of protecting migrant children. The Commission also supports various efforts on behalf of women, such as the prevention of uterine and breast cancer; and also works in areas addressing issues pertinent to very young children, the elderly, and the disabled.
05.18.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the U.S. House’s Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill to support homeless veterans. Congressman Cuellar’s language has several parts. First, it encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to work with local service agencies, particularly in small and rural communities, to ensure that voucher recipients of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program (HUD-VASH) are getting the most comprehensive services available. HUD-VASH is a cross-agency program charged with providing housing to homeless veterans. The provision also calls on the VA to partner with local and state governments to innovate ways to provide for homeless veterans and requests a report from the VA on the number of vouchers received by different types of veterans living in different types of areas. Congressman Cuellar is working to ensure that the resources available to homeless veterans, including through HUD-VASH vouchers, are sufficient. The number of vouchers that the VA gives out in a specific area is determined by a number of factors, including HUD’s annual Point-In-Time Survey, which is meant to be a snapshot of the local homeless veteran population. The second provision recognizes that homeless veterans’ challenges don’t stop at finding permanent housing. They also need basic necessities, such as furniture, basic household items and other basic assistance. The congressman’s provision requests a report to the U.S. House Appropriations Committee on the feasibility of a program for organizations to provide these supplies to newly housed veterans. “I have long been a supporter of our armed forces and the men and women who sacrifice so much for our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That is why it is so essential that we honor their service by doing whatever we can to help our veterans succeed and thrive after returning to civilian life. The need for more comprehensive services for our community’s homeless veterans underscores the need for greater support for them in the form of housing. Once these veterans are housed, we must then make sure that we provide them with the furniture and supplies they need to live a productive life. We owe it to our veterans to make sure they are taken care of when they return home.” To read the language the congressman included, please click here.
05.18.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he had helped include $8 million in the Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill to strengthen relationships between the United States and its allies through military training exercises under the National Guard State Partnership Program (SPP). The bill passed out of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee yesterday. The SPP was created in 1993 following the fall of the Soviet Union and consists of relationships involving 76 nations around the globe. It allows members of state National Guards to train and sharpen the skills of their foreign counterparts and vice versa. One of the many permanent partnerships that make up the program is the Nebraska & Texas – Czech Republic State Partnership, which has existed since the SPP originated in 1993. The relationship between the states’ national guards and forces from the Czech Republic allows service members to participate in exercises such as battlefield trauma care, aerial refueling and cyber defense, all skills in ever-greater need in today’s military engagements. Across the Atlantic and South America, the Texas Air Guard has participated in exercises with Chile when airmen from both countries engaged in a medical air-evacuation exercise in April to learn from one another about how to better respond to catastrophes and emergencies. Texas service members bring home with them new skills and greater cross-cultural understanding that make them stronger members of their community. “The SPP strengthens relationships between U.S. states, including Texas, and our allies,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Through relationships such as those with Chile and the Czech Republic, Texas Guard members learn how to serve their countries better and develop a greater sense of the importance of belonging in an increasingly interconnected world. Given the strong relationships and service members the program has created in Texas and beyond, I strongly believe in its value to our country.” “In this austere fiscal environment, and though defense dollars are scarce, the congressman’s language shows the importance of the State Partnership Program which enhances military capabilities and improves both training and global relationships, specifically in the Texas National Guard with our great friends and partners Chile and the Czech Republic,” said Major General John F. Nichols, the adjutant general of Texas. For more information on the SPP, please see here.
05.17.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) spoke with Christopher Hart, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), and Dr. Rob Molloy, director of NTSB’s Office of Highway Safety, about last weekend’s charter bus crash on U.S. Highway 83 north near Laredo that killed eight people and injured 44 others, some from the 28th Congressional District, including La Joya in Hidalgo County. “This afternoon I spoke with Christopher Hart, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and Dr. Rob Molloy, director of NTSB’s Office of Highway Safety, regarding the agency’s investigation into Saturday’s tragic bus crash in Webb County. They provided me with general information on the investigation process and informed me that their investigation is now underway to determine probable cause and could take a year to complete. NTSB has a team consisting of eight investigators, including one lead investigator, along with a transportation disaster assistance specialist who will coordinate local agencies in their efforts to support victims’ families. “The NTSB investigators will work with officials from the Federal Motor Carrier Administration (FMCSA), the Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS), the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), local officials, and the operator to examine a number of factors including: highway factors, survival factors, human performance, vehicle factors, motor carrier issues and determine probable cause of the crash. The investigation team will publish its findings and recommendations for how to prevent this from happening again, although it may choose to make interim recommendations before the investigation has concluded. “Once again, I thank Chairman Hart and Dr. Molloy for reaching out to me and my staff so quickly and for their diligence and responsiveness on this matter. I will continue to monitor the investigation as it progresses, and I offer my condolences to all those who lost their lives this weekend and to their loved ones.”
05.17.2016	The Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC), a coalition of leaders of the nation’s premier health care companies and organizations, has honored U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” at an award ceremony in Washington, D.C. The award presentation took place at the Council’s annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. The day-long event is dedicated to showcasing new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices. This year’s event featured, among other displays, emerging cancer therapies, virtual reality technologies to assist veterans with post-combat stress challenges, and uses of health data sharing to combat opioid abuse and addiction. “We’re on the verge of a remarkable era in American healthcare. Genomic and biologic research, improved data analytics, and advanced mobile technologies are enabling people to live longer, healthier lives,” said HLC President Mary R. Grealy. “To continue this exciting transformation, we need visionary leadership and sound policymaking. We honored Representative Cuellar for providing important advocacy and leadership for patients and consumers.” Healthcare Leadership Council President Mary R. Grealy (left) presents Congressman Cuellar with the Champion of Healthcare Innovation award in Washington, D.C., May 12.
05.17.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) the passage by unanimous consent of S.2143, to grant permanent rights to the Starr-Camargo Bridge Company and its successors to operate an existing toll bridge across the Rio Grande at Rio Grande City, Texas. In 1962 Congress authorized the Starr-Camargo International Bridge Company to construct, operate, and maintain a private toll-bridge between the United States and Mexico near Rio Grande City. In doing so, Congress left a level of uncertainty in the law as it did not state what should happen to the bridge once the 66 years passed. That lack of permanent authority caused constraints in long-term investments. Today, with the passage of S.2143, we have removed that uncertainty. Note: The House and Senate passed the Cuellar-Cornyn bill and the president signed it into law on May 20. Today the United States trades an estimated $531 billion in goods and services with Mexico, our nation’s third largest trading partner, and this trade is only expected to grow in the future. This bill, by ending the authorization’s sunset, will afford the bridge greater opportunities to pursue and finance projects that will enhance the capacity of the bridge and supporting facilities, and further support trade between the U.S. and Mexico long term. The Starr-Camargo Bridge plays an important role in the South Texas economy as it currently supports the crossing of 200 to 300 commercial trucks per day and around 4,000 cars. The legislation had already passed the Senate by unanimous consent and passed the House this afternoon by unanimous consent. It now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Congressman Cuellar introduced the House companion bill, H.R. 3688, in October of last year. “My district has grown rapidly in recent decades as a result of the strong culture of trade between the border region of Texas and Mexico,” Congressman Cuellar said. “With strong free trade agreements already in place and others coming, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, we could see even greater commercial traffic between the United States and Mexico. That is all the more reason to permanently authorize the Starr-Camargo Bridge’s operating authority. Currently, the Starr-Camargo Bridge supports the crossing of around 200 to 300 commercial trucks every day. These trucks play an important role in transporting construction materials and fresh fruits and vegetables north and sending machinery, oil and recyclable materials south. I thank Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) for working with me on this bill and I look forward to seeing the President sign it into law.” “The Starr-Camargo Bridge Company thanks Congressman Cuellar for his work to permanently extend our charter,” said Sam Vale, president of the Starr-Camargo Bridge Company. “The bridge plays an important role in the region’s economy and acts as a conduit between the western part of the Rio Grande Valley and Mexico. Having our charter extended will allow us to continue providing this service to the local community.” “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar and Senator John Cornyn for their help in permanently securing the vital operations of the Starr-Camargo Bridge, which is a major contributor to our local economy,” said Starr County Judge Eloy Vera. “This legislation is a huge investment for the people of Starr County and South Texas.”
05.16.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he included language in the FY 2017 U.S. House Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill to bring aid to areas in the 28th Congressional District with a history of poverty. All told, the language could lead to at least $924,630,300 million going to persistent-poverty areas. Now that the language has been approved, it will have to be approved by the full House and Senate before being sent to the President’s desk. The congressman’s language calls on the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to prioritize and set aside at least 10 percent of federal funding through specific programs for counties where 20 percent or more of the population has lived in poverty over the past 30 years. Webb, Zapata, Starr, Hidalgo and La Salle counties meet this definition in the 28th Congressional District. Some of the programs that will prioritize persistent-poverty areas include: · Section 502 Single Family Housing Direct Loan Program ($1,000,000,000 for at least $100,000,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Mutual and Self-Help Housing Grants ($30,000,000 for at least $3,000,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Rural Community Facilities Program ($47,100,000 for at least $4,710,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Rural Business Program Account ($76,883,000 for at least $7,688,300 for persistent-poverty areas) · Rural Cooperative Development Grants ($26,550,000 for at least $2,655,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program ($533,210,000 for at least $53,321,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans Program ($6,940,000,000 for at least $694,000,000 for persistent-poverty areas) · Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and Broadband Program ($62,560,000 for at least $6,256,000 for persistent-poverty areas) The congressman similarly directed the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to emphasize persistent-poverty counties in its efforts to improve economic opportunities for residents of rural, impoverished areas through the StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity. StrikeForce is a USDA program which has been providing assistance to rural areas since 2010. In 2015 the StrikeForce Initiative assisted 1,348 projects in Texas providing an investment of $462 million. In addition to the language calling on USDA to prioritize persistent-poverty areas the congressman advocated for funding to assist rural communities and colonias. The congressman secured $30 million for Rural Community Facilities Program Grants, an increase of $5 million over the government funding bill passed last December. The community facility program provides grants for the construction of essential community facilities, including health care facilities, such as hospitals and clinics; public facilities, such as town halls and courthouses; community support services, such as child care center and fairgrounds and public safety services, such as police and fire departments. At least 10 percent of these grants must be set aside for persistent-poverty areas. The congressman also secured $53 million for water and waste disposal grants for areas like colonias along the U.S.-Mexico border. This money will go a long way toward helping the 400,000 Texans who live in colonias, unregulated, informal settlements that started to pop up along the border in the 1950s. Colonias have historically suffered from incomes much lower than in the rest of the state. According to the Texas Secretary of State’s office, the per capita income in border counties is much lower than in other counties across the state. While the statewide average in 2014 was $34,959, Starr and Hidalgo counties had per-capita annual incomes of $23,215 and $23,753, respectively. “I wasn’t born wealthy, so I understand the importance of giving opportunity to those in rural areas so that they can succeed,” Congressman Cuellar said. “By including this language and funding for grant programs, I am confident that the rural residents of my district can take advantage of opportunities that might not have been available to them otherwise. I would like to thank Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt (R-AL-4) and Ranking Member Sam Farr (D-CA-20) for helping me add this language. I would also like to thank Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY-5) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY-17) for their support.” The specific language the congressman included can be found here, and the entire text of the Report, including the amounts for the grant programs above, can be found here.
05.10.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of language in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill to increase telehealth options for veterans. The bill also includes the nearly $2.4 billion requested by the President for telehealth. Telehealth is the use of electronic and telecommunications technologies to support remote health care delivery. While in many cases veterans can access a medical office, this often does not extend to the specialty care they need or those who are in very rural areas or are infirm. Within the field of telehealth is telemedicine, which tends to refer specifically to health care services provided remotely via technologies such as the computer, phone or videoconferencing, although the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. The funds and language, which encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to explore innovative ways to use telemedicine to care for rural and infirmed veterans, have to be passed by the full House and Senate before being sent to the President’s desk. The VA strives to provide the care and services our country’s veterans need close to home. Over the years it has implemented programs such as the Veterans Choice Program, which allows veterans who live more than 40 driving miles from the nearest VA medical facility to use local health care providers. With telemedicine, veterans can in some cases dial into a visit from home or videoconference with a VA health care specialist in a remote location from a VA health care facility. In 2015, the VA provided more than 2 million telehealth consultations to over 677,000 veterans, 45 percent of whom were in rural areas. For those veterans who cannot easily access a doctor’s office, Congressman Cuellar has embraced the adoption of new innovative technology and the possibilities of delivering high-quality medical care through telemedicine. Telehealth can improve veterans access to care by increasing the ways veterans receive medical advice and reducing the time and cost of having to travel to receive care. “Telemedicine is the wave of the future in medicine, not just for general practice but also for veterans’ care,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have continually committed myself to providing greater access to services for veterans, such as through my language to increase burial options for veterans, and with many veterans either too far or too sick to travel to a local doctor’s office, much less the nearest VA medical facility, I knew the VA needed to look for more innovative ways to take care of all our veterans. “Not only does telemedicine make receiving medical treatment easier, but studies have found it drives down health care costs in Texas and across the country. I’m not arguing that telemedicine is the appropriate course of action for all patients, however, with a disability compensation benefits program for 4.4 million veterans, 405,000 survivors of wars and nearly 35,000 veterans in the 28th Congressional District alone, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, it should be used as a tool when called for.” To read the language Congressman Cuellar included, please click here. The funds allotted in the bill are available as $1.171 billion for FY 2017 and $1.226 billion for FY 2018
05.08.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) delivered the commencement address to the University of the Incarnate Word (UIW) Class of 2016. In his address, the congressman shared lessons he had learned throughout his life from his parents and from his own educational career. The congressman holds five degrees: an Associate of Arts in Political Service (summa cum laude) from Laredo Community College, a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service (cum laude) from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., a Master of Business Administration in International Trade from Texas A&M International University, and a law degree and Ph.D. in government from the University of Texas at Austin. Although the congressman’s parents did not go very far in their formal schooling, they imparted wisdom the congressman has carried with him throughout his career: • Family comes first. • Education is the great equalizer in our country. • Dream big. • Have a plan for your success. • Work hard and keep a positive attitude. • Don’t burn bridges. • Pay attention to details, and do not leave anything to chance. • Never give up. • Give back and make a difference “There are many, many challenges that lie in front of you and your generation,” Congressman Cuellar said in his address. “My generation saw the end of the Vietnam War, the end of the Cold War, a technological revolution that put a phone, camera, camcorder, calculator, and access to every piece of information in the known universe in our pocket, the rise of terrorism and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a resurgence in political extremism, and an increasingly globalized world. “The challenges your generation will face are unknown and unpredictable, but will no doubt be more challenging and have even greater consequences. It is up to you and your peers to bravely face these challenges head-on.” “We’re honored that Congressman Henry Cuellar delivered this year’s commencement address,” said Dr. Lou Agnese, UIW president. “Our students and their families learned much from his life story, especially his educational journey, from an associate’s degree to a Ph.D.” To see the congressman’s full remarks as prepared, please click here. To request footage of the ceremony and the congressman’s address, please email Riley Brands at Riley.Brands@mail.house.gov. Congressman Cuellar stands with University of the Incarnate Word Provost Kathi Light as they prepare to walk on stage at the university’s commencement ceremony Sunday afternoon.
05.06.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the successful inclusion of $11.52 million to keep the boll weevil and pink bollworm pests, which plague cotton farmers in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, at bay in the Fiscal Year 2017 House Agriculture Appropriations bill. The bill has passed the full committee and now awaits consideration by the full House of Representatives. “Although partnerships between cotton producers and the U.S. Department of Agriculture have resulted in the eradication of boll weevil from most of the United States, it remains in the portion of the Lower Rio Grande Valley bordering the Mexican state of Tamaulipas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Boll weevil is the most destructive cotton pest in North America and has cost cotton producers around $23 billion since its introduction. The Rio Grande Valley is an important agricultural powerhouse for Texas, which is why it is crucial that we apply these funds in order to protect our cotton growers in the Valley.” "The National Cotton Council is grateful to Congressman Cuellar for helping secure funding necessary to facilitate the eradication of two very destructive pests of U.S. cotton," said Gary Adams, President and CEO of the National Cotton Council. "The National Boll Weevil Eradication Program, for example, ranks close to Eli Whitney's invention of the cotton gin as one of the greatest advancements ever for the U.S. cotton industry. This federal-state-grower cost share program has helped thousands of U.S. cotton growers become more competitive and has been a plus for the environment." Boll weevil is an invasive pest that entered the U.S. from Mexico in 1892 and spread across the entire Cotton Belt, which stretches from Texas across the South to Virginia, within a 30-year period. In 1979, American cotton producers teamed up with the United States Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to eradicate the pest. This resulted in the creation of a cost-share program in which producers pay 70 percent of the program cost and APHIS provides the remaining 30 percent through appropriations to keep the pest at bay. Pink bollworm, another dangerous pest, reached the American South in the 1920s and is found in many areas of the world outside the United States, including Mexico, India and China. The Lower Rio Grande Valley has been identified as a buffer zone between active boll weevil populations in Mexico and boll weevil-free areas in the U.S. That is why it is so important to keep up eradication efforts so as to eradicate boll weevil (and pink bollworm, which has its own separate eradication program) from all cotton-producing areas of the United States and adjacent areas of Northern Mexico
05.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) congratulated the students graduating in the coming weeks from the following colleges and universities in Bexar County: • Texas A&M University San Antonio • The University of Texas at San Antonio • The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio • Palo Alto College (Alamo Colleges) • St. Philip’s College (Alamo Colleges) • San Antonio College (Alamo Colleges) • Northwest Vista College (Alamo Colleges) • Northeast Lakeview College (Alamo Colleges) • St. Mary’s University • Trinity University • University of the Incarnate Word • Wayland Baptist University • Hallmark University • Our Lady of the Lake University • Baptist University of the Americas “I congratulate the students graduating from the colleges and universities in Bexar County,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The past years of study you have invested in your future will pay off in innumerable ways. Not only will they open doors of opportunity for you in your career, but they will make your mind richer and strengthen your character. Although no one in my family had ever attended college, I found support in my family, friends and educators to be the first generation in my family to get a college degree. I now have five advanced degrees, which tremendously helped shape the quality of life for both myself and my family. Education is the great equalizer in our society, and I applaud you for your hard work and dedication. As you embark on the next stage of your life, take the lessons you have learned in the classroom and out, from professors and classmates alike, as a foundation on which you can begin to build your life.”
05.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) congratulated students from Wilson, Atascosa and McMullen counties set to graduate from Coastal Bend College. “I congratulate the students graduating from Coastal Bend College,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The past years of study you have invested in your future will pay off in innumerable ways. Not only will they open doors of opportunity for you in your career, but they will make your mind richer and strengthen your character. Although no one in my family had ever attended college, I found support in my family, friends and educators to be the first generation in my family to get a college degree. I now have five advanced degrees, which tremendously helped shape the quality of life for both myself and my family. Education is the great equalizer in our society, and I applaud you for your hard work and dedication. As you embark on the next stage of your life, take the lessons you have learned in the classroom and out, from professors and classmates alike, as a foundation on which you can begin to build your life.”
05.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) congratulated the students graduating in the coming weeks from the following colleges and universities in Webb County: • Texas A&M International University • Laredo Community College • Brightwood College “I congratulate the students graduating from the colleges and universities in Webb County,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The past years of study you have invested in your future will pay off in innumerable ways. Not only will they open doors of opportunity for you in your career, but they will make your mind richer and strengthen your character. Although no one in my family had ever attended college, I found support in my family, friends and educators to be the first generation in my family to get a college degree. I now have five advanced degrees, which tremendously helped shape the quality of life for both myself and my family. Education is the great equalizer in our society, and I applaud you for your hard work and dedication. As you embark on the next stage of your life, take the lessons you have learned in the classroom and out, from professors and classmates alike, as a foundation on which you can begin to build your life.” Commencement exercises will be held on the following dates: Texas A&M International University – May 20 Laredo Community College – May 6 Brightwood College – June 11
05.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) congratulated the students graduating in the coming weeks from the following colleges and universities in Starr and Hidalgo counties: • The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley • South Texas College • University of Phoenix “I congratulate the students graduating from the colleges and universities in Starr and Hidalgo counties,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The past years of study you have invested in your future will pay off in innumerable ways. Not only will they open doors of opportunity for you in your career, but they will make your mind richer and strengthen your character. Although no one in my family had ever attended college, I found support in my family, friends and educators to be the first generation in my family to get a college degree. I now have five advanced degrees, which tremendously helped shape the quality of life for both myself and my family. Education is the great equalizer in our society, and I applaud you for your hard work and dedication. As you embark on the next stage of your life, take the lessons you have learned in the classroom and out, from professors and classmates alike, as a foundation on which you can begin to build your life.”
05.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of language into the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs House Appropriations bill that could provide for new burial places for veterans in Texas’ 28th Congressional District. The language was approved by the full U.S. House Appropriations Committee and must now pass the full House and Senate before being sent to the President’s desk. The language Cuellar introduced in the bill encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to look at the possibility of private donors offering land to establish new independent veterans cemeteries or satellites of existing ones. The VA aims to provide a burial place for all veterans within 75 miles of where they live. However, 8 percent of veterans across the country fall outside this range. Although eligible veterans can receive benefits from the VA for burial in non-VA cemeteries, the congressman would like to see local veterans have their own dedicated resting place. By donating land as a satellite cemetery, the 28th District could bypass the competitive application process for VA cemeteries. Currently, in order for a VA cemetery to be built, the Texas Land Commissioner must apply to the VA, with the blessing of the locality, and compete with other similarly-minded communities. With a number of plots of land already set aside by the state to be converted into veterans cemeteries, the process could be long and cumbersome. Designating a plot of land as a satellite of an existing cemetery would eliminate this problem. Aside from the distance issue, cost is another factor. Currently, the VA has a priority list of $247 million worth of projects pending to establish new cemeteries or rehabilitate existing ones, but only $46 million was allocated in FY 2016. Areas in Texas with the largest veteran populations have been prioritized, so Congressman Cuellar has also included language that encourages the use of public-private partnerships to help pay the costs of construction and upkeep of new cemeteries. “Our veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice by fighting for their country, so we should make sure that they are well taken care of after they return home,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Making it easier to choose to be buried close to home and close to their loved ones is the least we can do for our district’s veterans.” In addition, Congressman Cuellar included language that would direct the VA to report on how it is reducing the number of veterans without reasonable access to burial. To read the language the congressman inserted into the appropriations bill, please see the attachment to this email.
05.05.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that applications congressional nominations into U.S. Service Academies are now live on his web site. Every year, Congressman Cuellar has the privilege of nominating young men and women from the 28th Congressional District for admission into our nation’s four service academies that require a congressional nomination: the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at King's Point. The U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London has its own selection process based on a nationwide merit-based competitive process, for which congressional nominations are required. “Our nation’s service academies take only the very best students from across the country and mold them into the great leaders of tomorrow,” Congressman Cuellar said. As a proud supporter of our armed services and higher education, I take the responsibility of nominating students in my district very seriously.” Nomination applications for the Class of 2021 can be accessed here. Candidates interested in seeking a nomination from Congressman Cuellar to one of these academies must download a copy of the application packet on www.cuellar.house.gov in addition to applying directly to the academy's admissions office. Basic Requirements for Service Academy Eligibility · Must be at least 17, but not yet 23 years old by July 1 of year of admission to the academy · Must be a citizen of the United States · Must be unmarried · Cannot be pregnant or have legal obligation to support a child or other dependents · Must meet the medical, physical, and academic requirements of the Academy Last month in San Antonio, Jaci Dillemuth of Judson Early College Academy and Eddie Lopez, Thomas Larrea and Will Watkins from Randolph High School were accepted into a United States Service Academy for the Class of 2020. Three of these students were nominated by Congressman Cuellar. The nomination process is highly competitive, so applicants hoping to attend one of these academies should consider this opportunity very carefully and start taking steps toward applying now. Applicants may contact Outreach Coordinator Pete Arguello at (210) 271-2851 or pete.arguello@mail.house.gov for further details.
04.29.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) commended the U.S. Senate on confirming Roberta Jacobson to be the new United States ambassador to Mexico. Jacobson, a career diplomat who currently serves as the assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, has worked in public service since 1988, when she worked on the staff of the National Security Council during President George H. W. Bush’s administration. Since then, she has worked in various positions at the State Department under both Democratic and Republican administrations, including as director of the State Department’s Office of Mexican Affairs under President George W. Bush, and has helped lead key diplomatic discussions. Jacobson was nominated by President Barack Obama in July 2015 and received approval by the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee in November. Since then, Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) and Congressman Cuellar had supported her confirmation, but it was stalled as a result of objections to her work to restore diplomatic relations with Cuba under the Obama administration. “I am pleased that Roberta Jacobson has been confirmed as ambassador to Mexico,” Congressman Cuellar said. “First, I would like to thank Sen. Cornyn for his leadership on this issue and for working so hard to move Ms. Jacobson’s nomination forward. As the member of Congress who represents the largest inland port in the country in Laredo, I have a vested interest in seeing a strong ambassador in this crucial post. Ms. Jacobson has several decades of experience in this country’s foreign service and has extensive experience in Mexico, both in her current role as assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs and in her previous role as director of the Office of Mexican Affairs. I have personal experience with Ms. Jacobson, having worked with her on the Merida Initative between the U.S., Mexico and Central America to fight organized crime. “The position of ambassador to Mexico is crucial to the United States,” Congressman Cuellar continued. “The U.S. and Mexico share a 2,000-mile border, and Mexico is the United States’ third-largest trading partner overall and second-largest export market, with nearly $240 billion worth of U.S. exports going to Mexico. With nearly 80 percent of Mexico’s exports going to the United States, there is a strong and important commercial relationship between the two countries. But the relationship has a human element, too. More than 1 million Americans live in Mexico, and about 20 million American tourists visit Mexico each year. Ms. Jacobson understands these issues and can ensure that we maintain a strong relationship with our southern neighbor.”
04.29.2016	El día de hoy, el congresista demócrata Henry Cuéllar por el distrito 28 de Texas elogió el Senado de Estados Unidos por la confirmación de Roberta Jacobson para ser la nueva embajadora de Estados Unidos en México. Jacobson es una diplomática de carrera que actualmente sirve como la Subsecretaria de Estado para Asuntos del Hemisferio Occidental. Con una amplia experiencia, ha trabajado en el servicio público desde 1988, cuando laboró en el Consejo de Seguridad Nacional durante la Administración del Presidente George H. W. Bush. Desde entonces, ha trabajado en diversos puestos en el Departamento de Estado bajo las dos administraciones demócratas y republicanas, incluso como directora de la Oficina de Asuntos Mexicanos durante la Administración del Presidente George W. Bush, y ha ayudado a organizar discusiones diplomáticas claves. Jacobson fue nominada por el Presidente Barack Obama en julio de 2015 y recibió la aprobación del Comité de Relaciones Exteriores del Senado de Estados Unidos en noviembre. Desde entonces, el senador republicano John Cornyn por Texas y Cuéllar han apoyado su confirmación, pero se había estancado como consecuencia de algunas oposiciones de su trabajo para restablecer las relaciones diplomáticas con Cuba bajo la Administración del Presidente Obama. "Me complace que Roberta Jacobson ha sido confirmada como embajadora en México", dijo el Congresista Cuéllar. "Primero, quiero agradecer al Senador Cornyn por su liderazgo en este tema y por trabajar duro para avanzar la nominación de la Señora Jacobson. Como el miembro del Congreso que representa el puerto interior más grande en todo el país, Laredo, Texas, tengo un interés personal en que un embajador fuerte esté a cargo de este puesto crucial. Jacobson tiene varias décadas de experiencia en el Servicio Exterior y tiene una amplia experiencia en México, tanto en su cargo actual como Subsecretaria de Estado para Asuntos del Hemisferio Occidental como en su papel anterior como Directora de la Oficina de Asuntos Mexicanos. He trabajado con la señora Jacobson personalmente en la Iniciativa Mérida entre los Estados Unidos, México y Centroamérica para combatir el crimen organizado. "La posición de embajador en México es sumamente importante para los Estados Unidos", agregó el Congresista Cuéllar. "Los Estados Unidos y México comparten una frontera de casi 3.218 kilómetros, y México es el tercer-mayor socio comercial de los Estados Unidos en general, y el segundo-mayor mercado de exportación—Los Estados Unidos exporta casi $240 mil millones de bienes a México cada año. Casi el 80 por ciento de todas las exportaciones de México van a los Estados Unidos, así que existe una relación comercial fuerte e importante entre los dos países. Esta relación también se extiende al elemento humano. Más de un millón de estadounidenses viven en México, y casi 20 millones de turistas estadounidenses visitan a México cada año. Jacobson entiende estos asuntos y puede asegurar que mantengamos una estrecha relación con nuestro vecino del sur ".
04.28.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) served as honorary co-chair of and addressed LNG Allies’ Transatlantic Energy Dialogue on Capitol Hill in Washington. LNG Allies is a nonprofit whose mission is to promote U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports and enhance the energy security of America’s allies. The event was also attended by Congressman Joe Barton (R-TX-6), another event co-chair; Congressman Kevin Cramer (R-ND-At Large); His Excellency Petr Gandalovič, ambassador to the United States from the Czech Republic; Fred Hutchison, executive director of LNG Allies; and Martin J. Durbin, executive director for market development of the American Petroleum Institute. Congressmen Cuellar and Barton worked together to repeal the 40-year-old crude oil export ban late last year. In his remarks, Congressman Cuellar stressed the benefits of LNG exports, the regulations currently in place that U.S. energy companies must abide by, recent legislative progress toward expediting certain LNG exports, and next steps to increase the flow of U.S. LNG across the globe. At the heart of the discussion was the U.S. Department of Energy’s current policy on LNG exports to countries with which the United States has an existing free trade agreement (FTA partners) and those with which it does not (non-FTA partners). The Department of Energy automatically accepts LNG applications bound for FTA partners as being within the public interest. However, the process can take upwards of 200 days, or seven months, for non-FTA partners, places like Europe or Asia. “There are numerous benefits to increasing and expediting LNG exports for Texas and the country as a whole, be they economic, geopolitical, environmental or national security-related,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We have a rich supply of natural gas here in the U.S., and allowing U.S. energy companies to export their product more quickly will strengthen our allies abroad and bolster our economy here at home. The Department of Energy’s current practice of taking, on average, more than seven months to review applications to export LNG to non-FTA partners is costly and time-consuming. That is why both the House and Senate have taken up measures that would require the Department of Energy to expedite the permitting process, specifically for LNG exports to non-FTA countries. The Texas Legislature even passed a resolution calling on Congress to speed up the process. “I have long been a proponent of the U.S. and Texas energy sectors,” Congressman Cuellar continued. “Late last year, I worked with Congressman Barton to repeal the costly crude oil export ban, and before that, I signed on as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 351, the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act, which would require the Department of Energy to make a determination on LNG export applications within 30 days. Just yesterday, the U.S. House Armed Services Committee voted to include language to facilitate the shipment of U.S. LNG to Europe and other markets in its review of the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act, which authorizes expenditures for the U.S. Department of Defense. Clearly, the momentum is there to accelerate LNG exports and move the Texas and U.S. economies forward.” Click here for a fact sheet on LNG exports. Congressman Cuellar speaks on the benefits of liquefied natural gas exports on Capitol Hill Thursday morning. With him is Fred Hutchison, executive director of LNG Allies, which organized the event.
04.28.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of language into the Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs House Appropriations bill that could provide for new burial places for veterans in Laredo, where more burial plots are needed. Now that the bill has been approved by the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, it will have to be passed by the full House. The language Cuellar introduced in the bill encourages the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to look at the possibility of private donors offering land to establish new independent veterans cemeteries or satellites of existing ones. The VA aims to provide a burial place for all veterans within 75 miles of where they live. However, the closest VA cemetery to Laredo is 150 miles away in San Antonio. Veterans in Laredo are eligible to be buried in the city cemetery and enjoy a number of benefits including special headstones, markers and medallions. However, the congressman would like to see local veterans have their own dedicated resting place. By donating land as a satellite cemetery, the Laredo area could bypass the competitive application process for VA cemeteries. Currently, in order for a VA cemetery to be built, the Texas Land Commissioner must apply to the VA, with the blessing of the locality, and compete with other similarly-minded communities. With a number of plots of land already set aside by the state to be converted into veterans cemeteries, the process could be long and cumbersome. Designating a plot of land as a satellite of an existing cemetery would eliminate this problem. Aside from the distance issue, cost is another factor. Currently, the VA has a priority list of $247 million worth of projects pending to establish new cemeteries or rehabilitate existing ones, but only $46 million was allocated in FY 2016. Other areas in Texas with larger veteran populations have been prioritized over Laredo, so Congressman Cuellar has also included language that encourages the use of public-private partnerships to help pay the costs of construction and upkeep of new cemeteries. “Our veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice by fighting for their country, so we should make sure that they are well taken care of after they return home,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Making it easier for veterans to choose to be buried close to home and close to their loved ones is the least we can do for the over 9,000 unserved veterans within a 75-mile radius of Laredo.” In addition, Congressman Cuellar included language that would direct the VA to report on how it is reducing the number of veterans without reasonable access to burial. To read the language the congressman inserted into the appropriations bill, please click here.
04.27.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that today the General Services Administration (GSA) sent to Congress the plan for a new federal courthouse for the Western District of Texas, based in San Antonio. This plan must be approved by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works before it can move forward. The plan sent to Congress includes $132.6 million to complete the design and construct the new courthouse, which will include eight courtrooms and accommodate 13 judges. The approximately 305,000-square-foot courthouse will be built on the site of the former City Police Headquarters at 214 West Nueva Street. The new courthouse will consolidate all of the district court and associated U.S. Marshals Service space into one facility. Design on a new courthouse began in 2011, but was delayed due to a lack of foreseeable construction funding. Congress approved construction funding in December, and thus design of the new courthouse will restart upon approval of the plan. “I look forward to swift approval of this plan so construction can begin as soon as possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Constructing a new courthouse for the Western District of Texas in San Antonio has been a priority of mine and a project I’ve been working on for years. I, along with Sen. John Cornyn and the rest of the San Antonio congressional delegation working hand-in-hand, was able to secure funding for this important project through the omnibus government funding bill Congress passed in December. I want to thank the City of San Antonio and the Office of the Courts for their support in getting this project across the finish line as well. I expect that the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee will take up the plan in mid-May and I encourage them to approve it at that time.”
04.22.2016	On Wednesday evening, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) received the Emergency Committee for American Trade (ECAT) 2016 Trade and Investment Leadership Award. In presenting the award to Congressman Cuellar, ECAT’s chairman, Harold McGraw III, stated: “[Congressman Henry Cuellar] was first elected to represent the 28th district of Texas in 2005. In 2009, Congressman Cuellar founded the bi-partisan House Pro-Trade Caucus, and currently serves as its Chairman. Congressman Cuellar is a leading voice on U.S. trade policy and international commercial engagement, having advocated in support of numerous trade and investment initiatives over the past decade. Most recently, he played an important role in the passage of Trade Promotion Authority legislation and supported and urged the passage of trade agreements with Bahrain, Central America, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Oman, Panama, Peru, and South Korea. His recent testimony before the U.S. International Trade Commission was in support of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and focused on the agreement’s benefits to the Lone Star State.” The award was also presented to Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH-12). In presenting the award to Congressman Tiberi, McGraw stated: “Congressman Tiberi was first elected to the House of Representatives in 2000. Since that time, he has been involved with every major piece of trade legislation over the past decade...His history of supporting policies and legislation to expand international trade and investment has been a defining aspect of his leadership, and a consistent element of his public service. He has been a vocal proponent of trade agreements and legislation that strengthen the ability of American companies in Ohio and across the United States to sell their goods and services abroad and thereby support jobs and economic growth here at home. In his former role as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Trade, he played an instrumental role in the passage of Trade Promotion Authority legislation last year. Additionally, he supported and urged the passage of trade agreements with Australia, Bahrain, Central America, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Morocco, Oman, Panama, Peru, Singapore, and South Korea by vocalizing the benefits of trade for American businesses and workers.” In his keynote remarks, McGraw emphasized that “this is a critical time for U.S. trade policy.” He named the congressional consideration of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the ongoing negotiations for the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and the Trade in Services Agreement as three key priorities for ECAT. Congressman Cuellar receives the Emergency Committee for American Trade’s 2016 Trade and Investment Leadership Award Wednesday evening. The award recognizes two members of Congress, one from each party, for working for good trade and investment policy.
04.22.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) participated in Northeast Lakeview College’s annual STEM Day, designed to encourage area students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Northeast Lakeview College is a member of Alamo Colleges, which collaborates on STEM Day with Judson Independent School District. Students and families in attendance participated in hands-on activities and experiments and viewed exhibits from many public- and private-sector entities designed to demonstrate the power of a career in STEM to change lives. Among the entities were the San Antonio River Authority, AT&T, the HEB Metrix 360 LAB, the United States Army Institute of Surgical Research, and the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. “STEM Day is a great way to get San Antonio-area students involved in the fast-growing fields of study that make up STEM,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Science, technology, engineering and mathematics impact not just our everyday lives but our nation’s economic competitiveness and national security. The United States is consistently ranked behind the rest of the developed world when it comes to our achievement levels in STEM, and too few students pursue expertise in STEM. That is why I have consistently introduced language to support STEM education in schools across my district and the country and encourage our area students to participate in STEM-related classes and fields of study.” In addition to Congressman Cuellar, remarks were given by Captain Barrington Irving, who became the youngest person and first African-American pilot to fly solo around the world in 2007 at the age of 23. Congressman Cuellar on Saturday attended the 2nd Annual STEM Day at Northeast Lakeview College. L-R: Milton Fields, Captain Barrington Irving and Congressman Cuellar.
04.22.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today hosted an international meeting at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) to discuss the threat of the Zika virus in Texas. The meeting discussed what actions the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other state, local and international health agencies are taking to prevent further spread of the virus and address how all levels of government can work together in this effort. In attendance were high-ranking officials from the CDC, as well as representatives from the Department of Homeland Security, the State of Texas and the Texas Department of State Health Services, the City of Laredo Health Department, Webb County, Hidalgo County Health and Health Services, Laredo Medical Center, Doctors Hospital of Laredo, el Hospital Centro Médico Nacional de México, the Tamaulipas Secretariat of Health, researchers from la Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas, la Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo Leon, la Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila, la Universidad de Monterrey, la Universidad de Tamaulipas, the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, Texas A&M International University, and Laredo Community College. “The Zika virus disease is a reminder of how we must stay vigilant against biological and physical threats at our borders,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “While the news seems alarming, no cases have been reported in South Texas. However, it is concerning because of the rapid spread of the disease and the birth defects it causes in pregnant women. This is why I took the preemptive approach in inviting top health agencies from the United States, Mexico and Texas to the border today to discuss what we are all doing to prevent further spread of this disease. The well-being and health of our citizens is a top priority we all share” “We are learning more about Zika and the impact it can have on pregnancy every day,” said Anne Schuchat, MD, CDC Principal Deputy Director. “CDC is committed to working with state and local health officials, clinicians, and families to protect pregnant women from the devastating impact this virus can have.” About the Zika virus Zika virus disease, spread primarily through the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito, is usually mild with symptoms lasting several days to a week after being bit. Common symptoms are fever, rash, joint pain and red eyes. People usually don’t get sick enough to go to the hospital, and they very rarely die of Zika. However, Zika virus infection during pregnancy can cause severe fetal brain defects. Once a person has been infected, he or she is likely to be protected from future infections. For more information, visit the CDC web site. In May 2015, the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) issued an alert regarding the first confirmed Zika virus infections in Brazil and outbreaks have quickly spread since then to many countries. Most outbreaks have been confined to countries in South America, Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean. According to the CDC, local mosquito-borne transmission of Zika virus has been reported in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, and American Samoa, yet no local mosquito-borne Zika virus disease cases have been reported in U.S. states. However, there have been at least 358 confirmed travel-associated cases of Zika in 40 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, with 27 cases in Texas. No cases have been reported in Webb County or the Texas border zone, according to the Texas Department of Health and Human Services. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosted an international meeting with top health experts in both the U.S. and Mexico at TAMIU Friday.In the photo above, Congressman Cuellar and media listen to Dr. Anne Shuchat, principal deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control, via teleconference from CDC headquarters in Atlanta, as she answers questions about the response to Zika at TAMIU Friday afternoon. Congressman Cuellar hosted health experts from the border, state and Mexico at a conference at TAMIU Friday to discuss efforts to stop the spread of the Zika virus.
04.22.2016	El congresista por el distrito 28 de Texas Henry Cuéllar, hoy tuvo una reunión en Texas A&M International University con oficiales internaciones para hablar sobre la amenaza que presenta el virus Zika a Texas. Durante las pláticas, se explicó qué están haciendo los Centros para el Control y la Prevención de Enfermedades de Estados Unidos (CDC, por sus siglas en inglés) y otras agencias del salud estatales, locales e internacionales para detener la transmisión y propagación del virus Zika y como pueden trabajar juntos en esta causa. Asistieron oficiales de los CDC, el Departamento de Seguridad Nacional, el Estado de Texas y Departamento Estatal de Servicios de Salud de Texas, el Departamento de Salud de la Ciudad de Laredo, el Condado de Webb, Servicios de Salud del Condado Hidalgo, el Centro Medico de Laredo, el Hospital de los Doctores de Laredo, el Hospital Centro Médico Nacional de México, la Secretaria de Salud de Tamaulipas, investigadores de la Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas, la Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo Leon, la Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila, la Universidad de Monterrey, la Universidad de Tamaulipas, el Centro de Ciencias de Salud de la Universidad de Texas en San Antonio, Texas A&M International University y el Colegio Comunitario de Laredo. "La enfermedad del virus Zika nos recuerda que debemos estar siempre en alerta contra las amenazas biológicas y físicas en nuestras fronteras", dijo el congresista Henry Cuéllar. "Aunque las noticias del Zika pueden causar miedo, no se ha reportado ningún caso en la zona fronteriza de Texas. Sin embargo, es preocupante debido a la rápida propagación de la enfermedad y los defectos de nacimiento que provoca en las mujeres embarazadas. Por esta razón invité a los expertos de salud internacionales a Laredo para hablar de lo que estamos haciendo para evitar la propagación de esta enfermedad y enfocarnos en la prevención. El bienestar y la salud de los ciudadanos es una prioridad que todos compartimos”. “Cada día estamos aprendiendo más sobre el Zika y el impacto que puede tener durante el embarazo”, dijo Anne Schuchat, MD, Subdirectora Principal de los CDC. “Los CDC están comprometidos a trabajar con funcionarios de salud estatales y locales, los médicos y las familias para proteger a las mujeres embarazadas de los efectos devastadores que este virus puede causar". Acerca de la enfermedad por el virus del Zika La enfermedad del virus Zika, se transmite principalmente a través de la picadura de un mosquito de la especia Aedes infectado. La mayoría de los casos son leves con síntomas que duran de varios días hasta una semana después de ser picado. Los síntomas más comunes son fiebre, erupción cutánea, dolor en las articulaciones y ojos rojos. La gente, por lo general, no se enfermen tanto para ir al hospital, y es muy rara que uno se muera del Zika. Sin embargo, la infección por el virus Zika durante el embarazo puede causar graves defectos cerebrales fetales. Una vez que una persona ha sido infectada, es probable que sea protegida ante otras infecciones del Zika en el futuro. Para obtener más información, visite el sitio web de los CDC. En mayo de 2015, la Organización Panamericana de la Salud (OPS) emitió una alerta con respecto a las primeras infecciones por el virus Zika confirmados en Brasil y los brotes se han extendido rápidamente desde entonces a muchos países en Latinoamérica. La mayoría de los brotes se han limitado a los países de Sudamérica, Centroamérica, México y el Caribe. Según los CDC, la transmisión local transmitida por mosquitos del virus Zika se ha reportado en el Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico, las Islas Vírgenes y Samoa Americana. No hay ningún caso de la enfermedad del virus Zika transmitida por mosquitos locales que se han sido reportados en los estados de Estados Unidos. Sin embargo, se han reportado al menos 358 casos del virus Zika en 40 estados de Estados Unidos y el Distrito de Columbia, con 27 casos en Texa, pero todos estos casos son asociados con el viaje a países afectados. No se han reportado casos en el Condado de Webb o en la zona fronteriza de Texas, según el Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos de Texas. El congresita demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, organizó una reunión internacional de expertos en salud en Estados Unidos y México en TAMIU el viernes. En esta foto, el congresista Cuéllar y los medios de comunicación escuchan a la Dra. Anne Schuchat, Subdirectora Principal de los CDC, a través de teleconferencia desde la sede de los CDC en Atlanta, mientras que ella explica los planes para detener al virus Zika. El congresista Cuéllar invitó a expertos en salud de la frontera, Texas y México para participar en una conferencia en TAMIU el viernes para hablar sobre las maneras de detener la propagación del virus Zika.
04.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the successful inclusion of language and funds in the FY 2017 House Energy and Water Appropriations bill to limit methane gas emissions from flaring and venting, different types of release of release of natural gas, in shale formations such as the Eagle Ford Shale in the 28th Congressional District. Venting, unlike flaring, does not remove impurities and causes the release of unburned fossil fuel directly into the atmosphere. Specifically, the language directs funding for natural gas infrastructure research to projects limiting such shale-formation methane gas emissions. It also recommends: · $24.7 million for the area of natural gas technologies research, which includes: $10 million for research into the most responsible ways to remove methane hydrates, a vast resource that is currently inaccessible but has greater energy reserves than all other known fossil fuels combined $6 million for development of natural gas technologies that are more efficient and environmentally sound $5.2 million for a data management system in shale formations that weighs risk $3.5 million for natural gas infrastructure research and development The language encourages the U.S. Department of Energy to examine activities that curtail methane gas emissions in shale formations. Although carbon dioxide makes up a larger share of the atmosphere and lingers much longer than methane, methane traps 20 times as much heat in the earth’s atmosphere as does carbon dioxide. In 2014, natural gas systems accounted for the greatest source of methane emissions across the country, according to the EPA. Limiting methane emissions in shale formations will greatly help our air quality and the environment. “Texans and their families depend on the great jobs provided in the natural resources industry,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My congressional district is home to some of the most active natural gas producing sites in the country, such as the Eagle Ford Shale. “Making sure Texans have good-paying jobs has always been a priority of mine, as is protecting our environment for the benefit of all communities. This is why I encourage lower methane gas emissions and the development of technology and research that will encourage safe and responsible energy production in the United States. Reducing the loss of methane has the potential to be beneficial to both the environment and the economy. I would like to thank Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson (R-ID-2) and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9) for their help in including this language.” In the case of Texas, methane emissions from the oil and gas industry are expected to grow by 4.5 percent from 2011 through 2018, largely due to flaring from flare stacks, a result of inadequate pipeline in the state’s energy regions. When flaring doesn’t remove impurities in raw natural gas as it is supposed to, venting, the release of unburned fossil fuel directly into the atmosphere, occurs. Flaring and venting only increased as drilling activity picked up in the Eagle Ford Shale. In 2012, energy firms in the Eagle Ford Shale lost 21 billion cubic feet of natural gas through flaring and venting, while in 2013 they lost 35 billion cubic feet, according to an analysis done by the San Antonio Express-News. The Express-News analysis found that · No region in Texas flared as much gas as the Eagle Ford Shale. From the beginning of the energy boom in 2009 to 2012, flaring and venting across the state surged by 400 percent to 33 billion cubic feet. Nearly two-thirds of that gas came from the Eagle Ford. · The rate of flaring was 10 times higher in the Eagle Ford than in all the state’s other oil fields combined. New research is being done in natural gas technologies and infrastructure to encourage fewer losses of natural gas and less local pollution. This is important research being undertaken to reduce flaring, venting and methane leakage represents an important step forward in keeping our economies vibrant while also protecting our communities. In addition to the flaring and venting language, Cuellar included language in the bill that recognizes the demand for natural gas in heating and powering homes and buildings across the country. The language Congressman Cuellar secured encourages the U.S. Department of Energy to explore research opportunities that will help meet U.S. energy needs through the use of natural gas. To view the language, please click here.
04.19.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of $42 million in federal funds to help U.S. citrus growers, including those in the Rio Grande Valley. The funds, which have been included in this year’s House agriculture appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017, will offer support to citrus farmers in a number of ways. The bill must now pass the full House and Senate before being signed by the President. “Our citrus growers contribute greatly to the economy of the Rio Grande Valley, and they deserve our assistance in the face of threats to their vitality,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The $42 million worth of funding I have helped secure for citrus growers through fruit fly eradication efforts, if ultimately approved, would be a great help to our farmers. We are making good progress toward correcting the damage done by threats like the incurable citrus greening disease, which has caused drastic reductions in citrus production in recent years and has placed all Texas citrus-producing counties under quarantine. I would like to thank fellow Appropriations Committee members Congressmen David Valadao (R-CA-21) and Thomas Rooney (R-FL-16), both representing states that have also suffered from citrus greening, for their help in securing this language. I would also like to thank fellow Rio Grande Valley Congressmen Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX-15) and Filemon Vela (D-TX-34) for working with me on this issue.” “I am pleased the House Appropriations Committee recognizes the devastating impact citrus greening disease and fruit fly pests have on citrus growers,” stated Congressman Hinojosa. “This investment is necessary for the stability of the citrus industry, which is deeply connected to the economy of Deep South Texas. The $42 million in appropriated funds will ensure that important agricultural research and damage mitigation programs continue. I am proud of my work with Congressman Vela and Congressman Cuellar in making these allocations possible.” “Citrus growers in South Texas have been greatly impacted by national industry issues and regional conditions,” Congressman Vela said. “This funding well help expand research efforts at the Fruit Fly Rearing Facility in South Texas, providing needed support for citrus growers in the Rio Grande Valley. I have seen firsthand the impact of current conditions on citrus producers in the Brownsville-area. South Texas citrus farms, many of which have been owned by the same families for decades, have an important role in our region’s economy, and I will continue to work with the Department of Agriculture and Congressman Hinojosa and Congressman Cuellar to address the threat of the Mexican Fruit Fly and other issues facing this vital industry." Fruit flies and why they matter One of the ways in which Congressman Cuellar is looking out for the citrus industry is by including $30 million to improve and repair facilities that engage in fruit fly eradication research and $1.5 million specifically for fruit fly exclusion and detection efforts. The U.S. citrus industry is worth $11 billion, but the pests have caused more than $1 billion worth of damage. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA)Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or APHIS, has previously developed and implemented successful eradication efforts. Currently, however, the facilities are inadequate. This is why it is all the more important to ensure that APHIS can continue its good work to protect this industry that is such a major part of the local economy. APHIS’ eradication efforts work by releasing sterile male fruit flies to mate with females, a process which over time eliminates the next generation of invasive fruit flies. Citrus Health Response Program and the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group Congressman Cuellar’s language also includes an increase of $5 million for the Citrus Health Response Program (CHRP), which is administered under APHIS at USDA. CHRP is a key program whose express goal is to support the U.S. citrus industry, maintain access to export markets and protect citrus-growing states, including Texas, from a variety of citrus diseases and pests. This is accomplished by cooperation between federal and state agricultural regulators. Congressman Cuellar has previously supported efforts to increase funding for the CHRP. Including funds the congressman supported in the 2014 farm bill, the last farm bill, this now brings the total amount of funds for CHRP up to $53.8 million. Separately, Congressman Cuellar helped secure $5.5 million for the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group (HLB-MAC). Huanglongbing is the official name for citrus greening disease, which is spread from the Asian Citrus Psyllid. Like CHRP, HLB-MAC falls under APHIS. HLB-MAC attacks the problem of citrus greening disease through a coordinated response from federal and state entities. Participating organizations include APHIS, the Agricultural Research Service, National Institute of Food and Agriculture, state departments of agriculture and industry groups. Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a nonprofit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Grande Valley and has personally seen the effects of citrus disease like citrus greening since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “I want to thank Congressman Cuellar for securing these funds for Valley citrus growers,” Murden said. “I have seen the devastating effect that citrus greening can have on our citrus growers and the local economy. Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? Because that’s what could happen. Quite frankly, it can wipe this industry out. Congressman Cuellar’s assistance will help prevent this and greatly diminish the suffering that has been felt in the Valley.” Recognizing the urgency of tackling citrus greening disease Congressman Cuellar also included language in the Agriculture appropriations bill to encourage APHIS to allocate sufficient resources to address the issue of citrus greening and directs HLB-MAC to give out resources in the best way possible to maximize the effect it can have on the disease. Congressman Cuellar also included language encouraging the continuation of good work by other federal agencies with one another in the fight against citrus greening. The hope behind these working groups is to bring together relevant stakeholders, develop innovative solutions and help USDA choose good projects that will bring us closer to short-term and long-term solutions to the citrus greening problem, in addition to an eventual cure. Congressman Cuellar included language commending the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) on its citrus greening research efforts and to continue its cooperation with HLB-MAC. The language encourages the agency to continue working to curb the spread of the disease and enhance immunity in citrus trees as well as to work with industry, universities, growers, and other partners to develop effective ways of controlling the disease. ARS is a member of HLB-MAC. He also included language encouraging the use of CHRP funds to partner with state departments of agriculture and industry groups to address the disease in addition to encouraging APHIS to use the funds available in the Plant Pest and Disease Management and Disaster Preventions Programs account and in the funds for CHRP to keep the citrus industry viable. Finally, Congressman Cuellar included language that prioritizes citrus greening research projects through the Emergency Citrus Disease Research and Extension Program, which was created under the 2014 farm bill, and encourages the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to work with the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Advisory Board’s citrus disease subcommittee and to collaborate with HLB-MAC. To see the entire text of the congressman’s inclusions in the bill, please see here. KEY AGENCIES: APHIS (Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) – arm of the United States Department of Agriculture responsible for protecting animal health, animal welfare, and plant health CHRP (Citrus Health Response Program) – administered under APHIS, helps protect the U.S. citrus-growing industry and works on coordination between state and federal entities HLB-MAC (Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination Group) – administered under APHIS; goal is to confront Huanglongbing, or citrus greening disease, through research efforts and coordination between state and federal regulatory agencies ARS (Agricultural Research Service) – member of HLB-MAC that has worked on citrus greening research efforts
04.18.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) commended the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on its recent decision to drop a proposed rule change that would have prohibited the modification of street cars, or cars for regular driving purposes, for use in off-road racing events. The proposal was the result of a new interpretation of emissions standards in the Clean Air Act. Last month, Congressman Cuellar sponsored H.R. 4715, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports (RPM) Act of 2016, along with Congressmen Patrick McHenry (R-NC-10), Richard Hudson (R-NC-8), Bill Posey (R-FL-8) and Lee Zeldin (R-NY-1). The legislation is designed to protect a long-held understanding that the Clean Air Act does not prohibit such modifications. "The EPA has made the right decision in dropping the street car proposal," Congressman Cuellar said. “The EPA’s proposal ran counter to the long-accepted interpretation of the Clean Air Act that exempted these changes to cars. Now racing enthusiasts in my district and across the country can continue to make modifications without fear of punishment." To see the text of the bill, please click here. To see the congressman’s previous statements on the introduction of H.R. 4715, please click here.
04.13.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he had successfully included in the FY 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill a number of provisions designed to make life better for our country’s veterans. The bill was reviewed today by the entire U.S. House Appropriations Committee, on which Cuellar sits, and was passed out of committee. The bill can now head to the House floor for a full vote. The bill increases total funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs from $71.4 billion in FY16 to 73.5 billion in FY17. “I have long supported the veterans in my district and across the country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “With the personal sacrifices they have made to serve their country, we owe it to them to make sure that they have all the support they deserve from the government in recognition of their service. I thank my colleagues Charlie Dent (R-PA-15), chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee overseeing the VA, and Sanford Bishop (D-GA-2), ranking member of the subcommittee, for helping me support those who have given up so much to protect their country.” Among the provisions Cuellar successfully included today are: • Language to improve telemedicine for veterans in rural areas without easy access to medical facilities. • Language to help provide a burial option for veterans in rural and highly rural areas. • Language encouraging the VA to work more collaboratively with local service agencies to ensure homeless veterans in rural areas are receiving the best services possible. • Language to provide furniture, household items, and other assistance to formerly homeless veterans transitioning into permanent housing. • Language to designate a VA liaison to work with local law enforcement to help them better understand the needs of veterans considered a threat to themselves or others and work with them in a respectful manner. • Language encouraging greater participation between local VA hospitals and historically black colleges and universities and Hispanic Serving Institutions. • Language instructing the National Guard to implement public-private partnerships with state and local governments to construct facilities along our southwestern border that can support border security. If you would like to see the full language included by Congressman Cuellar, please visit his website here.
04.11.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) participated in the annual parade at the Poteet Strawberry Festival. The festival, a fixture of South Texas culture since its inception in 1948, offers a chance for area farmers to showcase their produce in an area famous for its strawberries. “I enjoyed riding in the Strawberry Festival parade this year, as I do every year,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Poteet, like the area surrounding it, is part of an agricultural region in our district that covers nearly 12,000 farm operators and nearly 8,000 farms. Across our district, farms generate more than $400 million worth of goods sold every year. The farm operators in the northern part of the 28th District deserve recognition for their daily contributions to the local and state economies.” Aside from his participation in the festival parade, Congressman Cuellar has consistently worked to secure protections for the farm operators in his district through his role on the U.S. House Appropriations Committee and has previously been selected as a Friend of the Farm Bureau by the American Farm Bureau. Late last year, when Congress passed and the president signed a comprehensive government funding package, Congressman Cuellar included a number of agricultural provisions to benefit his district, including greater collaboration between the National Institute of Food and Agriculture and location institutions of higher education and agreements to reduce the risk of food-borne illness as products pass between the U.S. and Mexico. For more information on the congressman’s work for TX-28 agriculture, please visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov.
04.07.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) recognized four San Antonio-area students, three of whom he nominated to attend different United States military service academies. Jaci Dillemuth of Judson Early College Academy and Eddie Lopez of Randolph High School have been accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Also from Randolph High are Thomas Larrea, who was accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and Will Watkins, who was accepted into the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut. All students will begin their studies at the service academies this fall. “These students show the spirit of service and integrity in our local students,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As a strong supporter of our armed services, I understand what an honor it is to be accepted to one of our nation’s military service academies. The academies only take the best students from across the country and mold them into the leaders of tomorrow. I congratulate Jaci, Eddie, Thomas and Will on their acceptances.” The process to gain acceptance to a military service academy is very rigorous and competitive. In order to qualify for acceptance, students must receive a nomination from either their U.S. Congressman, U.S. Senator or the Vice President. The following institutions require a congressional nomination: · U.S. Military Academy at West Point · U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis · U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at King’s Point Congressman Cuellar on Thursday recognized four San Antonio-area students who were accepted into our national service academies, three of which he nominated. Jaci Dillemuth of Judson Early College Academy (left) was accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. And from Randolph High School (right), Eddie Lopez was accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Thomas Larrea was accepted into the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis Maryland; and Will Watkins, was accepted into the U.S. Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecticut. All students will begin their studies at the service academies this fall.
03.31.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) welcomed Ambassador Arnold Chacon to Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) to give remarks on the importance of students and young professionals pursuing careers at the State Department and across the federal government. Joining Ambassador Chacon, who served as the U.S. government’s top representative to Guatemala from 2011 to 2014, were Diplomat in Residence John Roberts and State Department Recruiter Faisal Khan. Ambassador Chacon currently serves as Director General of the Foreign Service and Director of Human Resources at the State Department. The visit by the State Department officials coincided with TAMIU’s Business and Hospitality Career Fair, held today in the university’s Student Center Rotunda. “It is vital that we encourage greater diversity, especially among Hispanics, in the workforce at the State Department and across the federal government,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Currently, there are roughly 54 million Hispanics living in the U.S. Despite making up 17 percent of the population in 2015, they only represented 8.4 percent of the federal civilian workforce, according to the federal government’s Office of Personnel Management. In order to ensure a federal government with unique ability and perspectives, we should place a special emphasis on recruiting, hiring, retaining and promoting multilingual talent from diverse backgrounds. Luckily, this sort of work has already begun at the State Department. That is why I personally invited Ambassador Chacon to Laredo, where the Department could see our diverse group of promising college students and working professionals. I thank President Keck and the excellent staff at TAMIU for encouraging students to apply and for making this event a success.” “We’re here to recruit diverse, talented men and women who can effectively carry out the Department’s mission of shaping a peaceful, prosperous, just and democratic world,” said Ambassador Chacon. “We thank Congressman Cuellar for extending this opportunity to speak with the students at TAMIU.” Congressman Cuellar holds a master’s degree in international trade from TAMIU. He also served as an adjunct professor there in international commercial law from 1984 to 1986.
03.23.2016	Today Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Blake Farenthold (R-TX-27) introduced the Correcting Unfair Benefits for Aliens (CUBA) Act (click for text). The bill would ensure that Cuban immigrants are held to the same immigration standards as nationals of other countries with which the United States has established diplomatic relations. Diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba were formally re-established in July of last year. “I have introduced this legislation today in partnership with my friend from Texas, Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX-27), in an effort to level the playing field for all those seeking to enter this country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The preferential immigration status and benefits we bestow on Cuban migrants, through the Cuban Adjustment Act, the Refugee Education Assistance Act and the wet foot/dry foot policy, are relics of a bygone era and a cold war that has long since passed. With the president’s historic visit to the country this week as well as the normalization of relations, we shouldn’t lose sight of the thousands of people from regions like Central America who are fleeing serious threats from drug violence and face a disadvantage when compared with Cubans. The need remains for comprehensive immigration reform, but in the meantime, we shouldn’t be handing out special status and benefits for a select group.” “With President Obama restoring diplomatic relations with Cuba, the immigration preferential treatment given to Cubans who enter the United States no longer makes sense,” Congressman Farenthold said. “We are seeing an influx of Cubans at the Texas-Mexico border who are immediately admitted to this country and have an extremely fast pathway to citizenship, and a generous taxpayer funded benefits package. The state of Texas is already seeing a 60 percent increase in migrants attempting to enter the state from Cuba, and we should hold all immigrants to the same standards in order to ensure the safety and vitality of our communities.” The CUBA Act would repeal the Cuban Adjustment Act (Public Law 89-732) of 1966 and ensures that Cuban immigrants receive the same treatment as other nationals.
03.22.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) condemned the terrorist attacks perpetrated across Brussels, Belgium, Tuesday. So far, it has been reported that 34 are dead and at least 200 have been wounded, among them at least nine Americans. The terrorist group ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attacks. The attacks took place at Zaventem airport outside the Belgian capital as well as on a Metro train close to the headquarters of the European Union. The attacks come on the heels of the arrest of Salah Abdeslam, a suspected participant in militant attacks in Paris last November. As a result, Belgium has raised its threat rating to Level 4, or “serious and imminent attack.” This is the first time such a threat assessment has been reached in Belgium. “The violence experienced today is tragic,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The cowardly acts perpetrated today are a reminder that we need to remain vigilant in this day and age. Our European allies and the world have experienced too much senseless violence, and we must stay on guard to keep Europe and the rest of the world safe from events like these and bring those responsible to justice. My thoughts go out to the Belgian people and those impacted by today’s attacks.” Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson has assured the public in a statement that no specific threat to the U.S. exists in the wake of the attacks. However, the Transportation Security Administration will deploy additional security at major transit hubs as a precaution, along with other safety measures. The United States Department of State is currently advising U.S. citizens that no flights are leaving Brussels and that they should shelter in place and monitor local media and U.S. Embassy social media for the latest developments. U.S. citizens have also been encouraged to call their loved ones in the United States to report on their well-being.
03.15.2016	Today, for the 10th time since starting in Congress in 2005, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) received the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of his support for pro-jobs, pro-growth policies in the first session of the 114th Congress. This past year Congressman Cuellar was given a 94% rating by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. This marks the 28th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. “I thank the Chamber for granting me this award,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I will continue to support pro-business, pro-growth policies at the federal level because I know that support for business means greater economic prosperity for our country. My district is home to major international trade ports and agricultural businesses, as well as thousands of local small businesses that provide jobs and support to our economy through free enterprise.” “We are pleased to recognize Congressman Cuellar for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. During the first session of the 114th Congress, the Chamber scored members on 14 Senate votes and 20 House votes, including votes reestablishing Trade Promotion Authority, reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank, and lifting the crude oil export ban. Congressman Cuellar was an active leader on each of these efforts. Also scored were votes in support of the first long-term transportation law in a decade and votes to make permanent tax provisions that would have regularly expired. Congressman Cuellar receives his 10th Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award since starting in Congress. Giving him the award is Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Congressman Cuellar meets with John M. Gonzales, director of congressional and public affairs for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s Southwest/South Central Region, at the Spirit of Enterprise Award reception.
03.15.2016	El día de hoy, por la décima vez desde que entró a la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos, el congresista Henry Cuéllar por el distrito 28 de Texas fue galardonado con el reconocimiento Espíritu Empresarial, conocido como “Spirit of Enterprise”, por la Cámara de Comercio de Estados Unidos por su apoyo para desarrollar trabajos y el crecimiento de la economía durante la primera sesión del 114º Congreso. El año pasado, la Cámara le otorgó al congresista Cuéllar una clasificación de 94 por ciento por sus políticas pro-empresa. Este es el 28o año que la Cámara de Comercio de Estados Unidos formalmente honra los logros del grupo selecto comprendía de Miembros del Congreso que fomentan el desarrollo comercial. “Le agradezco a la Cámara por otorgarme este reconocimiento,” dijo el congresista Cuéllar. “Continuaré apoyando legislación al nivel nacional que fomenta el desarrollo de negocios y el crecimiento económico porque el desarrollo comercial iguala mayor prosperidad para nuestro país. Mi distrito tiene importantes puertos de comercio internacionales, negocios agrícolas, y también miles de negocios pequeños que proporcionan trabajos a nuestra gente y que fortalece nuestra economía a manera de libre empresa.” "Nos da gusto reconocer al congresista Cuéllar por participar en la formulación de políticas pro-empresariales, las cuales ayudan a fortalecer el espíritu empresarial de nuestra nación,” dijo Tom Donohue, presidente y director ejecutivo de la Cámara de Comercio de Estados Unidos. "El reconocimiento Espíritu Empresarial rinde homenaje a los miembros del Congreso que están comprometidos a asegurar que las empresas estadounidenses puedan seguir funcionando y tener éxito en un sistema de libre empresa." Este prestigioso reconocimiento de la Cámara es otorgado anualmente a Miembros del Congreso quienes votaron a favor de legislación importante para empresas, como se describe en la publicación de la Cámara How They Voted (Cómo Votaron). Los miembros que apoyaron la posición de la Cámara en al menos el 70 por ciento de esos votos califican para recibir el premio. Durante la primera sesión del 114º Congreso, la Cámara dio una calificación a los miembros en 14 votos en el Senado y 20 votos en la Cámara de Representantes, incluyendo los votos que restablece la Autoridad de Promoción del Comercio (TPA), la reautorización del Banco de Exportación e Importación, y el levantamiento de la prohibición de exportación de petróleo crudo. El congresista Cuéllar fue un líder activo en cada uno de estos esfuerzos. También fueron calificados por sus votos en apoyo de la primera ley de transporte a largo plazo en más de una década y los votos para crear disposiciones fiscales permanentes y no dejarlos expirar. Tom Donohue, presidente y director ejecutivo de la Cámara de Comercio de Estados Unidos, otorga al congresista Cuéllar el reconocimiento Espíritu Empresarial el martes durante una recepción oficial en Washington. El congresista Cuéllar ha recibido el reconocimiento de la Cámara diez veces desde que entró a la Cámara de Representantes de Estados Unidos. El congresista Cuéllar con John M. Gonzalez, Director de Asuntos Públicos y del Congreso para la Cámara de Comercio - Región Suroeste/Centro Sur, durante la recepción del Espíritu Empresarial en Washington, D.C.
03.08.2016	Yesterday Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) originally cosponsored Congressman Patrick McHenry’s (R-NC-10) H.R. 4715, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016, or RPM Act, which blocks attempts by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate modified motor vehicles used for racing. Joining Cuellar and McHenry was Congressman Richard Hudson (R-NC-8). For decades, automotive enthusiasts have modified street vehicles into race cars used exclusively at closed race tracks. Recently, the EPA has issued a proposed rule that would make it illegal for this practice to continue via the Clean Air Act. However, Congress never intended for race cars to be subject to the Clean Air Act. The RPM Act would simply confirm that race cars are exempt from EPA regulation via the Clean Air Act. “Recently, the EPA negatively impacted business activity in my district and across the country by implementing a Clean Power Plan and new ozone standards that do not take into account the costs or economic impacts of implementation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Now we are seeing the agency attempt to subvert the clear implication of the Clean Air Act that racecars should not be subject to emissions standards. Our legislation will continue the decades-long application of existing law and require the EPA to apply the law as passed, not in any way it chooses.” “The EPA has placed onerous regulations on nearly every aspect of our economy – from energy production to agriculture – and now they are coming after Americans’ hobbies,” said Congressman McHenry. “For years my constituents have been free to modify vehicles for competitive use on closed tracks without government interference. The RPM Act will ensure that continues by blocking this EPA overreach, allowing motorsports enthusiasts in North Carolina and across the country to continue this time-honored tradition.” “Regulations that waste our money, time and resources are bad for jobs, but the EPA is going one step further to restrict our personal freedom,” said Congressman Hudson. “Even if I didn’t represent Charlotte Motor Speedway and a whole lot of racing enthusiasts, I would be outraged by this ridiculous government overreach. This legislation is a critical step to protect the way of life for many and ensure the future of racing. We’re not just going to sound the alarm on this – we’re going to stop it.” BACKGROUND: The Clean Air Act authorizes the EPA to regulate motor vehicles but these regulations have never applied to race cars. In 1990, Congress affirmed this exemption when it authorized the EPA to regulate “non-road vehicles” and explicitly excluded any “vehicle used solely for competition” from the non-road definition. Despite the clear intent of Congress, the EPA's proposed rule attempts to amend the Clean Air Act. H.R. 4715 simply confirms that it would not be considered tampering to modify these vehicles for exclusive track use. Converting a motor vehicle into a race car is a significant part of American automotive heritage with the practice having played a large role in the foundation of NASCAR. Additionally, the specialty automotive industry employs over 1 million Americans. Companies that manufacture, distribute, and sell products that improve race vehicle performance are a large and growing part of our economy.
03.04.2016	U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar (TX-28) met with the visiting delegation from the City of Laredo this week to discuss the city’s federal priorities. Please see photos of their visits below and attached. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Cuellar with City Manager Jesus Olivares. Sen. Cornyn and Mayor Pete Saenz. Rep. Cuellar and, from left to right, Laredo City Councilman George Altgelt, U.S. Deputy Transportation Secretary Victor Mendez, Mayor Pete Saenz, Councilman Alex Perez, City Manager Jesus Olivares and City Councilman Rudy Gonzalez.
02.28.2016	A group of Laredo middle school students visiting Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) Friday, Feb. 26 will met National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) astronaut and engineer Stephanie D. Wilson, the second African-American woman to go on a space mission. Wilson was the keynote speaker during the 2016 TAMIU STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) Alliance luncheon on Friday, Feb. 26, from 12:30 -1:30 p.m. in the Student Center Ballroom. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and TAMIU hosted the four-day STEM Alliance. The event, which took place at TAMIU from Wednesday – Sunday, Feb. 24-28, is designed to encourage local Hispanic female students to consider careers in STEM fields as they are currently underrepresented in those areas. The STEM Alliance also included a career fair and presentations from companies, universities and government agencies. Area students, especially Hispanic females, attended and learned about diverse career options available. Congressman Cuellar also spoke to high school freshman from around Webb County on the importance of this annual event during the Mission Mars: Unmanned Vehicle Rescue Robotics Competition on Sunday, Feb. 28 at TAMIU. “STEM fields are at the cornerstone of a great and functioning society. These careers will continue to be in high demand in the near future, which is why I want to expose our local middle school girls these wonderful organizations and role models because our nation’s STEM fields are looking for greater diversity from women and minorities. I thank Dr. Keck, Dr. Arenaz and TAMIU for their help and support with our annual STEM Alliance,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “We applaud the vision Congressman Cuellar shares of a world made better, stronger, and bolder through dedicated STEM education and support. The University is most proud to partner with him in this vision, and we annually look forward to the opportunity to charge the minds of these young students and empower them to become their most powerful, purposeful selves.” – Dr. Ray Keck, President. TAMIU provost and vice president for Academic Affairs, Dr. Pablo Arenaz said that the STEM Alliance provides students an opportunity to explore future career possibilities available through STEM studies. “We are fortunate to be able to host this event with Congressman Henry Cuellar for the past six years and expose students to the many career paths available through STEM areas,” Dr. Arenaz said, “From exploring space as an astronaut and curing diseases as a physician to building roads as an engineer and helping solve crimes at a crime lab as a chemist, STEM graduates can look forward to bright futures ahead.” About NASA Astronaut Stephanie D. Wilson A native of Boston, Mass., Wilson was selected as a NASA astronaut in 1996. She was a crewmember on Discovery missions STS-120, STS-121 and STS-131 to the International Space Station. She holds a master’s degree in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Texas. Her bachelor of science in Engineering Science was earned at Harvard University. Her many honors and achievements include the Johnson Space Center Director Commendation Award (2013), the Johnson Space Center Director’s Innovation Group Achievement Award (2013), NASA Distinguished Service Medal (2009, 2011), NASA Space Flight Medal (2006, 2007, 2010), an honorary Doctorate of Science from Williams College (2011), Harvard College Women’s Professional Achievement Award (2008), Harvard Foundation Scientist of the Year Award (2008) and the Young Outstanding Texas Exes Award (2005). Organizations who participated in the STEM alliance include: TAMIU, Laredo Community College, The University of Texas at San Antonio Health Science Center-Regional, UTSA Department of Biology, USDA, Area Health Education Center, UTSA Dental School, FBI, National Weather Service, USDA, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, NASA, U.S. Marines, NASA Community College Aerospace Scholars, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Area Health Education Center, Frank Architecture, Lackland Air Force Base, PETA, AEP, Wells Fargo, Federal Protective Services, Texas Academy of International and STEM Studies, Texas Department of Public Safety Crime Laboratory, Space X, Robotics Engineering Machine Shop, IBC Bank and others.
02.19.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and the General Services Administration (GSA) announced long-awaited improvements worth $26.8 million to the Gateway to the Americas International Bridge, also known as the Convent Avenue Port of Entry or International Bridge 1. International Bridge 1 is 70 years old and is the oldest of Laredo’s four ports. Together with previously announced upgrades to International Bridge 2, Congressman Cuellar has made $88.8 million worth of funds available for upgrades. Using estimates from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the GSA has predicted that improvements to the two bridges could create around 1,440 jobs. Please see this fact sheet for additional information. The bridge’s last renovation was more than 25 years ago. The bridge, which had approximately 3.5 million pedestrian crossings and 1.3 million car crossings in 2014, suffers from long wait times and accessibility for visitors with disabilities or other physical impairments. The work at the bridge will: • Improve the efficiency of the port by reconfiguring the main car inspection lanes • Add a dedicated bicycle inspection lane • Increase the number of permanent pedestrian processing lanes from four to 14 • Reconfigure the inside of the historic Administration building • Demolish the existing secondary inspection canopy for cars and replace it with a new one • Add cameras to monitor processing All of these improvements are expected to reduce peak car wait times from 33 to 15 minutes and peak pedestrian wait times from 49 to 21 minutes. Previously, Congressman Cuellar announced $62 million in federal funding for renovations to the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge, also known as Bridge II. The combined funding for renovations to both bridges in Laredo is approximately $88.8 million, which Congressman Cuellar secured during the U.S. House of Representatives appropriations process. “As a lifelong resident of Laredo, I understand the importance of the Convent Avenue Port of Entry to the local economy and to the economy of the state and nation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The effects on commerce and transportation of the current wait times at the Convent Avenue Port of Entry will now rightly be lessened by these improvements.” “GSA’s mission is to deliver the best value in real estate to government and the American people,” said Regional Administrator Sylvia Hernandez. “As the backbone of the federal government, one of GSA’s top priorities is to support economic development and planning in local communities. The award of the construction contract for Laredo’s Convent Avenue Port of Entry and our continued work on the Juarez-Lincoln Port of Entry demonstrates GSA’s commitment to making strategic decisions with our federal partners and stakeholders while promoting economic development. Both projects will help CBP in performing their mission to safeguard America’s borders.” “As one of the nation’s busiest pedestrian, automobile and bus traffic border crossings, these modifications to Bridge I will help to not only create a more efficient and secure processing of people into the United States, but also, help ensure that people will not have to be exposed to the elements for an undue amount of time,” said City of Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. “For too long, we heard stories of the elderly with no place to sit, or young mothers with little babies in strollers, toddlers and other young children, standing outside with no facility to protect them from the heat or the cold. These upgrades will finally allow them to wait humanely, in a protected area, while CBP officers conduct the necessary inspections.” The renovations for Bridge I will begin in April 2016 and will last approximately 16 months. Mexico-bound traffic, along with U.S.-bound bicycle and pedestrian traffic, will not be affected during this process.
02.18.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the opening of the second phase out of three of the Chacon Creek Hike and Bike trail system, which he made possible through a $3.3 million earmark in 2005. Joining him were Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, City of Laredo Council Members, City of Laredo Environmental Services Department and the Texas Department of Transportation. The second phase connects the Haynes Recreation Center to State Highway 359, contributing to an ever-growing network of trails across the city that beautify the city and provide recreation for its residents. The goal of the Hike & Bike Trail project is to cover large portions of the city and eventually lead to Texas A&M International University. In 2008, the City of Laredo partnered with the Texas Department of Transportation to bring the $3.3 million to Laredo for the Hike & Bike Trail system. “Opening up this next phase of the Hike & Bike Trail system will revitalize the Chacon Creek area and harness the potential of one of Laredo’s greatest natural resources to provide enjoyment to Laredoans,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have been working on this project since 2005, when I secured $3.3 million through the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act. I thank the City of Laredo officials for their help in bringing this project to fruition as well as the Texas Department of Transportation for bringing these funds to Laredo for the Hike & Bike Trail project.” “This project represents another important piece of the vision of the Chacon Creek Master Plan to turn it into a natural recreation area that will promote healthy activities as well as an effort to protect the environment,” said City Manager Jesus Olivares. Phase I of the project, which connected Eastwood Park to the Haynes Community Center, was completed in August 2011. Phase 3 is currently under design and will ultimately connect Eastwood Park to Highway 59. The entire trail project is expected to be completed by late 2017.
02.12.2016	Today Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he had secured an additional $10 million federal funding for environmental programs along the U.S.-Mexico border. These grant programs, which received funding under the recently passed omnibus appropriations bill, will help improve the environment, drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, all of which are important to conservation efforts and communities along our border and across the nation. Strengthening the environment and improving water quality along the U.S.-Mexico border Congressman Cuellar helped secure $10 million in funding, $5 million more than last year, for the Environmental Protection Agency’s State and Tribal Assistance Grants that will be specifically focused on projects near and along the U.S.-Mexico border. These projects are intended to improve drinking and wastewater infrastructure within 62 miles of either side of the border. These grants will help keep wastewater pollutants out of the Rio Grande, which is a source of drinking water for more than 6 million people and irrigates 2 million acres of land. “I thank the Committee, Ken Calvert (R-CA-42), Chairman, and Betty McCollum (D-MN-4), Ranking Member, of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, for their support of this important program,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In my district these grants have recently supported projects such as providing wastewater collection service to 111 residents of Rio Grande City in order to connect 11,000 gallons of wastewater a day to the city’s treatment plant, thereby reducing risks for contaminating soil and groundwater right near the banks of the river. The grants have also supported a project completed in 2012 to connect 3,275 colonia residents to Laredo’s water distribution and wastewater collection lines in order to provide fresh drinking water and eliminate the use of substandard sanitary systems thus creating a healthier environment, among other projects.” Restoring our district’s and nation’s wetlands In addition, Congressman Cuellar was successful in increasing the North American Wetlands Conservation Fund in the omnibus appropriations bill by $1 million for a total of $35,145,000. Grants from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service are used on conservation projects to restore our nation’s wetlands. “In recent years grants from the North American Wetlands Conservation Fund have supported projects in my district and across Texas such as a project working to restore and enhance 2,612 acres of coastal wetlands and upland habitat for populations of waterfowl, shorebirds, wading birds, Neotropical migratory songbirds, and other wetland wildlife across South Texas and the Gulf Coast including in parts of Starr and Hidalgo counties’ coastal sand sheet wetlands. The project will enhance foraging, water quality, flood storage, and soil conservation throughout the project area. It is my hope that we can utilize these additional funds along our southwestern border and the Rio Grande.”
02.10.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he successfully included language in the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill to improve public health at high-volume ports of entry. The language directs the Food and Drug Administration to work with local governments at these ports of entry to reduce the risk of food-borne illness and better equip local officials to deal with food-borne threats. Congressman Cuellar also requested that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provide a report in the Fiscal Year 2017 budget request on how CDC coordinates its various programs with state and local public health departments to measure, track, control, and manage cross-border infectious disease in high-volume port cities. “I thank the committee, particularly Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt of Alabama and Ranking Member Sam Farr of California, for their commitment to these public health initiatives along the U.S.-Mexico border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Because of the active ports of entry in my district, there is an opportunity for an enormous amount of food entry inspection by the FDA and this collaboration could greatly reduce the potential of harmful food-borne illnesses to spread into the United States. This language also assists local health department staff in addressing both highly infectious diseases that already occur along the U.S.-Mexico border as well as the threat of other new and emerging highly infectious diseases. “With the recent outbreak of the Zika virus and the potential that virus has shown in spreading across our highly globalized world, we must ensure our federal, state, and local health officials are utilizing all tools and resources at their disposal effectively to ensure our citizens remain safe from these and other infectious diseases that have the ability to transcend borders.” The language Congressman Cuellar secured ensures that the CDC and FDA are engaged with communities along the border, where the importation of large volumes of food can cause additional burdens to local health officials. Ultimately, this language will provide an extra layer of security to the community and reduce the risk of food-borne illness and infectious disease. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, Twitter Feed, or YouTube Channel
02.08.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) reiterated his concern regarding the numbers of apprehensions of family units and unaccompanied minors along our nation’s southern border, both of which increased by more than 100 percent over identical time periods in Fiscal Year 2015 and Fiscal Year 2016 (see here). Last week, the Department of Homeland Security released January numbers noting a 36 percent decrease in apprehensions on our southwest border from December 2015 to January 2016. Below is Congressman Cuellar’s response, and attached is data showing a large increase in such apprehensions over a longer period of time: “While the number of unaccompanied children and family units apprehended along our southern border in January is down 36 percent from the month before, we should not take this to mean that the overall situation has been solved,” Congressman Cuellar said. “If you look at the overall trajectory of apprehensions along the border over a longer time span, and not just a single month, you will see that that there has been a 171 percent increase in the number of family units apprehended at the border this fiscal year over the same period last fiscal year and a 102 percent increase in the number of unaccompanied children. As someone who has lived in the border region his whole life, I understand the way that our border communities bear the brunt of this increase in apprehensions. Not only have apprehensions increased since FY15, but data from Customs and Border Protection show that drugs continue to flow across our border in large quantities – in FY06, 2.2 million pounds of narcotics were seized, while in FY15, 2.14 million pounds were seized. We must not be lulled into a false sense of security by a one-month decline in apprehensions and need to continue directing resources to improve the situation along the border and in Central America.” Click here to view apprehension numbers.
02.08.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced a key step in the fight against drug trafficking by successfully including funding increases for the Department of Defense’s counter-drug programs in the recently enacted government funding bill. National Guard Counter-Drug Program “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee I am committed to advocating for smart spending, including efforts to stem the flow of illegal drugs and keep our communities in South Texas and the border area safe,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I secured an increase in funding for our nation's counter-drug programs. The programmatic increase of $110 million for the National Guard Counter-Drug program will bring the program to a total of $192.9 million, of which the Texas National Guard will receive around $19.3 million. “The National Guard Counter-Drug Program provides support to domestic law enforcement in the detection, interdiction, and disruption of illicit drug trafficking. The program provides a tremendous return on investment. In Fiscal Year 2014, the U.S. seized an estimated net worth of $1.1 billion in drugs, cash, and property and made 39.9 thousand arrests through the program.” U.S. Southern Command Funding In addition to funding for the National Guard, Congressman Cuellar supported an increase in funding for the United States Southern Command (SOUTHCOM). SOUTHCOM will receive $25 million to augment existing Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance capabilities to enhance drug interdiction efforts between federal agencies and between countries as part of the Department’s $716 million Counter-Narcotics Support program to stop the flow of drugs before they reach our nation’s borders. Calling on the Department of Justice to make enforcing drug laws a priority “Once drugs cross our border it costs billions in taxpayer dollars to track and investigate the supply, seize the narcotics and prosecute criminal cases,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Working with our partners in Mexico and Central America, we can slow the flow of illegal drugs at its source, resulting in savings in dollars and human lives. In addition to this, I included language calling on the Department of Justice to continue making the enforcement of our drug trafficking laws a priority in order to show that there are serious consequences for those entering the drug trade. According to former Attorney General Eric Holder the number of individuals charged with drug trafficking offenses declined by six percent between 2013 and 2014 – this equates to a reduction of 1,400 individuals. While this may sound like a positive statistic indicating that fewer individuals are entering the drug trade, which is not the case. The Attorney General has stated that the administration is shifting its focus to only prosecute those who commit the most serious offenses. While I’m encouraged that they are prosecuting serious criminals, it is my believe that anyone who violates our nation’s drug trafficking laws should be brought to justice and the administration must continue to carry out our nation’s laws and prosecute individuals who break the trafficking laws put on the books by our elected legislators. Drug treatment and prevention efforts “However, the issues with drug trafficking ultimately begin with the demand for the substances here at home. To that end, the government funding bill includes $4.6 billion to support substance abuse prevention and treatment efforts in order to educate members of the public about the risks and dangers of controlled substances and to assist those suffering with addiction. I would like to thank Appropriations Defense Subcommittee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey and Ranking Member Pete Visclosky of Indiana as well as Commerce, Justice, and Science Chairman John Culberson of Texas and Ranking Member Mike Honda of California for their assistance in inserting this language.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, Twitter Feed, or YouTube Channel
02.05.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced a series of successes in strengthening the partnership between the United States and Mexico through the recent omnibus appropriations bill. In the Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill that passed Congress and was signed into law in December, Congressman Cuellar included numerous provisions to increase cooperation between our two nations with the help of Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers of Kentucky, Ranking Member Nita Lowey of New York and the various subcommittee chairmen involved, particularly Kay Granger of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee. “The relationship between the United States and Mexico is a long and special one, and one that deserves particular attention,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Mexico is the United States’ second-largest export market and third-largest trading partner with some $1.4 billion in two-way trade daily. The United States and Mexico function as economic partners. Whereas imports from most of the world are foreign products, a full 40 percent of the value of U.S. imports from Mexico are made of content produced in the United States, according to the Wilson Center. This is compared to 25 percent for Canada and 4 percent for China. The relationship between our two countries runs deep and bridges commercial, cultural, and educational divides. There are close to 1 million Americans living in Mexico and 20 million tourists each year. Approximately 11.6 million Mexican immigrants reside in the United States, accounting for 28 percent of our nation’s foreign-born residents. The cultural ties between the United States and Mexico run deep as most of our nation’s southwest was previously part of Mexico. “It is for these reasons that I believe we must expand and invest in this important relationship. Cross-border cooperation and collaboration has proved to be an ingredient for success, and it is all the more important that we continue to engage and partner with our neighbors to the south. To that end, I included numerous provisions in the recent omnibus appropriations bill to spur greater cooperation between the United States and Mexico. These provisions include everything from increasing the security relationship between our nations to providing economic support to providing assistance to develop microenterprises to promoting educational and cultural exchanges to establishing a working group to help facilitate and ease commerce across the border. I also added a provision requiring the U.S. Department of Transportation to study what standards or protocols are needed to develop passenger and freight fast rail between our two nations in order to increase tourism and commerce.” “The Border Trade Alliance thanks Rep. Cuellar for his continued commitment to an always-improving cross-border relationship between the United States and Mexico,” Border Trade Alliance Chairman Russ Jones said. “We share Rep. Cuellar’s belief that there is room for improvement in our cross-border trade and transportation environments, and we support the important border-related items he worked so hard to insert into the appropriations package. Border communities from San Diego to Brownsville are fortunate to have Rep. Cuellar fighting for them.” “The Government of Mexico highly values its collaboration with the U.S. Congress in areas of interest for both our countries such as increasing the well-being, the security of our communities and strengthening our privileged relationship,” said Mexican Ambassador Dr. Miguel Basáñez Ebergenyi. “This collaboration is especially relevant in our common border, particularly as it relates to infrastructure and improving the efficiency in commerce and trade that benefits both Mexico and the U.S. It ultimately strengthens the North America region making it the most competitive in the world. In this regard, the provisions introduced by Congressman Cuellar coincide with the positive vision of what the border should be and contribute to the binational efforts in place aimed at achieving this common objective Provisions included by Congressman Cuellar (the full language can be found here): • US-Mexico Agricultural Cooperation: The Congressman included a provision establishing a working group between the US and Mexico to help facilitate and ease cross border commerce. The intent of this provision is to increase efficiency in the inspection process, on both sides of the border, in order to reduce wait times at ports of entry and reduce transportation costs. • Highlighting Common Security Interest of Mexico and Central America: The Congressman included language making clear that drug trafficking is a major source of violence and creates instability. It underlines the important role the Department of Defense plays in combating drug trafficking and the benefits the Department provides to the U.S., Mexico, and Central America. • Cooperation with Mexico: The Congressman included language urging the Department of Homeland Security to work in a more formal way with Mexican authorities, such as the use of cross-border working groups, in order to facilitate the development of common and complementary approaches in areas of mutual interest such as border infrastructure, immigration enforcement, trade facilitation, and violence prevention. • Cross-border Violence: The Congressman included language directing Immigration and Customs Enforcement to work with the Attorney General’s office to assess cross-border violence and provide recommendations for additional resources needed to track and investigate cross-border violence where it occurs. • EPA State and Tribal Assistance Grants: The Congressman successfully included $10 million for environmental programs along the U.S. Mexico border. This funding comes in the form of grants from the Environmental Protection Agency and is specifically focused on water and wastewater projects within 62 miles of either side of the border. • Migrant Workers: The Congressman included language underscoring the importance of protection standards for agricultural workers, especially migrant farm workers, children who work on farms, and pesticide handlers and urges the Department of the Interior to work with the Department of Agriculture, farmers, farm workers, industry, and other stakeholders to update these standards. • Providing funding for security assistance to Mexico: The Congressman made sure the omnibus appropriation included funding above the President’s budget request to assist Mexico as it works to secure its nation and borders. • Academic Exchanges with Mexico: The Congressman included language underscoring the importance of academic exchanges at the high school, college, and post graduate level and calls for the expansion of such exchanges between the U.S. and Mexico. • Exchanges with Mexico and Central America: The Congressman included language calling on the Department of State to continue supporting cultural exchange programs, as well as academic exchange programs, with Mexico and other countries in Central and South America. The language specifically calls on the State Department to increase opportunities for students from disadvantaged backgrounds or populations that have been historically underserved. • Foreign Military Financing: The Congressman secured $7 million in foreign military grant assistance for Mexico. • Microenterprise and Microfinance: The Congressman secured language to include Mexico and Central America in the $265 million microenterprise and microfinance program which targets poor communities and assists them in financial services that allow them to save, borrow, and access insurance, remittances, and other key services. • Economic Support Fund – Mexico: The Congressman secured $39 million for Mexico to assist with programs promoting good governance, civil society, education, private sector competitiveness and economic growth, including to improve U.S.-Mexico trade and investment. • International Military Education and Training: The Congressman secured funding for Military Education and Training in Mexico at “not less” than $1.5 million. • North American Development Bank: The Congressman secured $10 million in new money for the North American Development Bank. The NADB is a joint effort to preserve and enhance conditions and the quality of life for people living along the U.S.-Mexico border. In the past, the NADB has funded water and wastewater services in colonias in Laredo and Webb County. • U.S. – Mexico Passenger Rail: The Congressman included a provision requiring the Department of Transportation to complete a study on what standards and protocols are needed to facilitate passenger and freight rail between the U.S. and Mexico in order to enhance tourism and commerce between our two nations.
02.05.2016	El congresista federal demócrata Henry Cuéllar por el distrito 28 de Texas el día de hoy anunció una serie de éxitos que fortalece la alianza entre Estados Unidos y México a través de la recién-aprobada ley de asignaciones denominada ómnibus. El proyecto de ley ómnibus de asignaciones del año fiscal 2016 fue aprobado por el Congreso y se convirtió en ley en diciembre. El congresista Cuéllar incluyó numerosas disposiciones que fomenten cooperación entre ambos países con la ayuda del Presidente del Comité de Asignaciones Hal Rogers de Kentucky, Nita Lowey de Nueva York y varios presidentes de las subcomisiones implicadas, en particular Kay Granger, presidenta del Subcomité de Asignaciones del Estado y Operaciones Extranjeras. "La relación entre Estados Unidos y México es extensa e importante, y merece una atención especial," dijo el Congresista Cuéllar. "México es el segundo mayor mercado de exportación de los Estados Unidos y el tercer mayor socio comercial con $1,4 mil millones en el comercio bilateral diario. Los Estados Unidos y México funcionan como socios económicos. Considerando que las importaciones de la mayor parte del mundo son los productos extranjeros, un 40 por ciento del total de las importaciones de Estados Unidos provenientes de México son producidos en los Estados Unidos, según el Centro Wilson. Esto se compara con el 25 por ciento de Canadá y 4 por ciento de China. La relación entre nuestros dos países es extensa e interconectada y sumamente importante para las industrias comerciales, culturales y educativas. Hay cerca de 1 millón de estadounidenses que viven en México y 20 millones de turistas que visitan el país cada año. Aproximadamente 11,6 millones de inmigrantes en México viven en los Estados Unidos y ellos mismos representan el 28 por ciento de los residentes nacidos en el extranjero de nuestro país. La influencia cultural entre nuestros países es muy aparente, pues la mayoría del suroeste de los Estados Unidos era anteriormente parte de México. "Y por estas razones, creo que tenemos que ampliar e invertir en esta importante relación. La cooperación transfronteriza y la colaboración ha demostrado ser un ingrediente clave para el éxito y es aún más importante que sigamos colaborando y asociándonos con nuestros vecinos del sur. Con dicho fin, he incluido numerosas provisiones en el reciente proyecto de ley ómnibus para estimular una mayor cooperación entre los Estados Unidos y México. Estas provisiones pretenden mejorar la situación de seguridad entre nuestras naciones y brindar apoyo económico para desarrollar microempresas que promueven los intercambios educativos y culturales para establecer un grupo de trabajo que ayuda a facilitar el comercio y la facilidad a través de la frontera. También he añadido una provisión que exige el Departamento de Transporte de EE.UU. estudiar qué normas o protocolos son necesarios para el desarrollo de pasajeros y de carga ferroviaria rápida entre nuestras dos naciones con el fin de incrementar el turismo y el comercio ". "La Alianza del Comercio Fronterizo agradece al representante Cuéllar por su compromiso continuo con una relación transfronteriza la cual siempre está mejorando entre los Estados Unidos y México", dijo el presidente de la Alianza del Comercio Fronterizo Russ Jones. "Compartimos la creencia del Rep. Cuéllar que aún hay margen de mejora en nuestros entornos comerciales y de transporte transfronterizo, y apoyamos los elementos importantes relacionados con la frontera que trabajó tan duro para incluir en el proyecto de ley ómnibus de asignaciones. Todas comunidades fronterizas de San Diego a Brownsville son afortunadas de tener a Rep. Cuellar luchando por ellos”. "El Gobierno de México valora mucho su colaboración con el Congreso de Estado Unidos en las áreas de interés para nuestros dos países, tales como el aumento del bienestar, la seguridad de nuestras comunidades y el fortalecimiento de nuestra relación privilegiada", dijo el Embajador de Mexico en Estados Unidos Dr. Miguel Basáñez Ebergenyi. "Esta colaboración es especialmente relevante en nuestra frontera común, particularmente en lo que se refiere a la infraestructura y la mejora de la eficiencia en el comercio y el comercio que beneficia tanto a México como Estados Unidos. Fortalece la región de América del Norte, haciéndola la más competitiva del mundo. En este sentido, las disposiciones introducidas por el congresista Cuéllar coinciden con la visión positiva de lo que debería ser la frontera y contribuyen a los esfuerzos binacionales en lugar encaminadas a la consecución de este objetivo común. Provisiones incluidas por el congresista Cuéllar (el texto completo se encuentra aquí, en inglés): • Cooperación Agrícola entre Estados Unidos y México: El miembro del Congreso incluyó una provisión que establece un grupo de trabajo entre los EE.UU. y México para ayudar a facilitar el comercio y la facilidad transfronteriza. El propósito de esta provisión es aumentar la eficiencia en el proceso de inspección, en ambos lados de la frontera, con el fin de reducir los tiempos de espera en los puertos de entrada y reducir los costos de transporte. • Destacar interés común de seguridad de México y América Central: el congresista incluyó un texto dejando claro que el tráfico de drogas es una fuente importante de violencia y crea inestabilidad. Se subraya la importancia del papel del Departamento de Defensa juega en la lucha contra el tráfico de drogas y los beneficios que ofrece el Departamento de los EE.UU., México y América Central. • La cooperación con México: El congresista incluyó un texto instando al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional para trabajar de una manera más formal con las autoridades mexicanas, tales como el uso de grupos de trabajo transfronterizos, con el fin de facilitar el desarrollo de enfoques comunes y complementarios en las zonas de interés mutuo como la infraestructura fronteriza, control de la inmigración, la facilitación del comercio y la prevención de la violencia. • La violencia transfronteriza: El congresista incluyó un texto dirigiendo al Servicio de Inmigración y Control de Aduanas para trabajar con la oficina del Procurador General para evaluar la violencia transfronteriza y proporcionar recomendaciones para los recursos adicionales necesarios para rastrear e investigar donde se produce la violencia transfronteriza. • Estado de la EPA y de donaciones de asistencia tribales: El congresista incluyó $10 millones para programas ambientales a lo largo de la frontera EE.UU. México. Esta financiación se presenta en forma de subvenciones de la Agencia de Protección Ambiental (EPA por sus siglas en inglés) y se centra específicamente en los proyectos de agua y aguas residuales a menos de 62 millas de cada lado de la frontera. • Los trabajadores migrantes: El congresista incluyó un texto que subraya la importancia de las normas de protección de los trabajadores agrícolas, especialmente los trabajadores agrícolas migrantes, los niños que trabajan en las granjas, y los que manejan pesticidas e insta al Departamento del Interior para trabajar con el Departamento de Agricultura, los agricultores, granja los trabajadores, la industria y otras partes interesadas de actualizar estas normas. • Proporcionar fondos para la asistencia de la seguridad en México: El congresista incluyó un presupuesto mayor al del presidente designado para asistir a México en sus esfuerzos para mejorar la seguridad de su nación y fronteras. • Intercambios académicos con México: El congresista incluyó un texto que subraya la importancia de los intercambios académicos en la escuela secundaria, la universidad y en el nivel posgrado y promovió la expansión de este tipo de intercambios entre los EE.UU. y México. • Los intercambios con México y América Central: El congresista incluyó texto dirigiendo al Departamento de Estado para seguir apoyando programas de intercambio cultural, así como los programas de intercambio académico, con México y otros países de América Central y del Sur. El congresista incentiva al Departamento de Estado aumentar las oportunidades para los estudiantes procedentes de entornos desfavorecidos o poblaciones que han sido atendidas históricamente. • Financiamiento Militar Extranjero: El congresista aseguró $ 7 millones para asistencia militar extranjera en forma de subvenciones a México. • Microempresas y Microfinanzas: El congresista aseguró texto en el proyecto de ley para incluir a México y América Central en el programa de microempresa y las microfinanzas con el valor de $265 millones, que se dirige a las comunidades pobres y les ayuda a los servicios financieros que les permiten ahorrar, pedir prestado y el seguro de acceso, las remesas y otros servicios claves. • Fondo de Apoyo Económico - México: El congresista aseguró $39 millones para México para ayudar con los programas de promoción del buen gobierno, la sociedad civil, la educación, la competitividad del sector privado y el crecimiento económico, incluyendo la mejora del comercio EE.UU.-México y la inversión. • Educación y Entrenamiento Militar Internacional: El congresista consiguió fondos para la Educación y Entrenamiento Militar en México a "no menos" de $ 1,5 millones. • Banco de Desarrollo de América del Norte: El congresista aseguró $10 millones para nuevos fondos en el Banco de Desarrollo de América del Norte. El BDAN es un conjunto de esfuerzos para preservar y mejorar las condiciones y la calidad de vida de las personas que viven a lo largo de la frontera EE.UU.-México. En el pasado, el BDAN ha financiado los servicios de agua y alcantarillado en las colonias en Laredo y el Condado de Webb. • México - Estados Unidos Carril de Pasajeros: El miembro del Congreso incluyó una provisión que exige al Departamento de Transporte completar un estudio sobre cuáles son las normas y protocolos son necesarios para facilitar ferroviario de pasajeros y mercancías entre los EE.UU. y México con el fin de mejorar el turismo y el comercio entre las dos naciones.
02.02.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced a key step forward in strengthening the relationship between federal agencies and institutions of higher education that primarily serve Hispanics. These colleges and universities, known as Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs), are degree-granting institutions with full-time enrollments that are at least 25 percent Hispanic. The following HSIs can be found in the congressman’s district or the immediately surrounding areas: • Baptist University of the Americas (San Antonio) • Hallmark College (San Antonio) • Laredo Community College • Northwest Vista College (San Antonio) • Our Lady of the Lake University (San Antonio) • Palo Alto College (San Antonio) • South Texas College (McAllen) • St. Mary’s University (San Antonio) • St. Philip’s College (San Antonio) • Texas A&M International University (Laredo) • The University of Texas at San Antonio • The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio • The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley • University of the Incarnate Word (San Antonio) • Wayland Baptist University (San Antonio) Thanks to the support of Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers of Kentucky and Nita Lowey of New York, throughout the recently passed government funding bill, Congressman Cuellar added language in order to leverage the power of the federal government to improve Hispanic educational outcomes. The Hispanic population of the United States is 55 million, making people of Hispanic origin the nation’s largest ethnic or racial minority. Hispanics constituted 17 percent of the nation’s total population. In Texas the Hispanic population grew by 9.4 percent from 2010 to 2014, from 9,515,924 to 10,411,340. Unfortunately, according to the Census Bureau, fully 33.5 percent of Hispanics 25 and over had not completed high school as of 2014, as compared with 6.9 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Similarly, only 15.2 percent of Hispanics had at least a bachelor’s degree and 4.6 percent an advanced degree as of 2014, as compared with 35.6 percent and 13.3 percent, respectively, for non-Hispanic whites. “I understand the importance of education to success,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That is why it was so important to me during the last appropriations cycle to fight for language that would enhance the opportunities for Hispanic students to climb the educational ladder and rise to success. By giving more opportunities to HSIs and their students, we can do just that.” “Congressman Cuellar’s additions direct a number of federal departments and agencies, including the Department of Defense, Department of Agriculture and the National Science Foundation, to increase or strengthen their efforts and collaborations with Hispanic-Serving Institutions,” said Antonio R. Flores, president and CEO of the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities. “The nation’s future economic development will increasingly depend on the educational opportunities and successes made available today to Hispanics, the largest and fastest-growing demographic of college students in our society.” Specifically, the congressman added the following language: • In the Agriculture section, Congressman Cuellar added language directing the National Institute of Food and Agriculture to partner with Hispanic Serving Institutions on biotechnology programs. • In the Commerce, Justice, and Science section Congressman Cuellar ensured that HSIs will be able to partner with NASA. He also included language encouraging the National Science Foundation to invest in STEM education at HSIs. • In the Defense section, Congressman Cuellar added HSIs to the list of institutions with access to scientific and technical information products and services that encourage minority participation in STEM education. • In the Energy and Water section, Congressman Cuellar encouraged the Department of Energy’s National Laboratories and the National Nuclear Security Administration to continue developing partnerships with HSIs. • In the Financial Services and General Government section, Congressman Cuellar made sure to focus on recruiting talent for federal agencies from HSIs. • In the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education section, Congressman Cuellar secured language requiring updates in the FY 2017 budget request on the latest efforts to increase STEM education at HSIs. • In the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs section, Congressman Cuellar inserted language encouraging the VA to work with medical schools at HSIs. • In the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development section, Congressman Cuellar included language encouraging the U.S. Department of Transportation to partner with HSIs for research on minority-owned businesses.
02.01.2016	Governor Greg Abbott and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting detailed information on DHS’s decision to cut resources for aerial-based border security support in a program known as Operation Phalanx. DHS’s request for Aerial Detection, Situational Awareness and Monitoring Capability support for Operation Phalanx from the Department of Defense (DoD) for calendar year 2016 was 50 percent lower than that of recent years, despite Governor Abbott’s September 30, 2015 request for additional aerial observation resources along the Southern Border and Congress fully funding DoD support for Operation Phalanx in the recently passed omnibus appropriations bill. “Given the recent surge of migrants from Central America and Cuba along the Southern Border, we believe DHS should be requesting more surveillance and security resources, not fewer,” Governor Abbott and Congressman Cuellar write in the letter. “Any decrease in aerial observation is not only imprudent, but contradicts the very mission of border security enforcement.” Noting that DHS’s decision to decrease surveillance resources is unsettling, Governor Abbott and Congressman Cuellar requested the following information from DHS: • Metrics used to determine that a fifty percent reduction in aerial resources will sufficiently support Operation Phalanx • Detailed plans on how the cuts will impact staffing, resource allocation, and operation levels in Laredo, the Rio Grande Valley and Tucson. • What resources DHS plans to utilize to backfill any gaps this reduction presents. To read the full letter, click here.
01.29.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Dr. Ray M. Keck III, president of Texas A&M International University (TAMIU), and Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN) announced a $900,000 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, (SAMHSA) Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, to TAMIU-SCAN to develop a prevention program for substance abuse and HIV/AIDS as well as viral hepatitis in Webb County. The $900,000 SAMSHA grant, secured by Congressman Cuellar, supports a comprehensive intervention program among Hispanic adults ages 18-24 in the Webb County region. TAMIU will work with SCAN on this program. “The Texas-Mexico border community, including Webb County, is disproportionately affected by substance abuse, HIV and other diseases that not only affect the individual, but their entire family and community,” said Congressman Cuellar. “According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, Webb County is ranked 16th in a list of the 25 counties with the greatest number of HIV diagnoses, 19th in the number of AIDS cases and 22nd in the number of people living with HIV. While great medical advances have made these conditions and diseases easier to treat, we must continue to with extensive outreach and intervention programs that focus on prevention and early treatment. These federal funds and programs are a great investment for maintaining healthy communities along the border. I thank Dr. Keck and the staff at TAMIU, as well as Ms. Dabdoub and SCAN for their help in developing this much-needed program for our community.” Dr. Marivic Torregosa, TAMIU assistant professor of Nursing and coordinator of the Family Nurse Practitioner program for the College of Nursing and Health Sciences, said the TAMIU-SCAN Prevention Project Program provides a strategic approach to establish, effectively deliver and sustain substance abuse, HIV, and viral hepatitis prevention among young adults. “There are currently no integrated substance abuse, HIV and viral hepatitis prevention services available in the Laredo community,” Dr. Torregosa said, “This project assists in meeting the needs of young adult Hispanics by linking them to various in-house and community resources in order to provide detection, assessment as well as prevention of substance use disorders, HIV, and viral hepatitis infections.” Torregosa said it is far more productive to prevent rather than deal with life-altering consequences of substance abuse. Dr. John Kilburn, TAMIU associate dean for Research and Sponsored Projects, said the TAMIU-SCAN Project brings unprecedented services to Laredo. “This community partnership will serve as a model for health outreach to our local community,” Dr. Kilburn said. The goal of the TAMIU-SCAN Project is to implement several evidence-based practices in its different program components, Torregosa explained. The project will provide prevention efforts such as community outreach, comprehensive screening and assessment, HIV rapid testing, hepatitis C rapid testing, HIV brief counseling, HIV and hepatitis education, curriculum-based substance abuse prevention education, substance abuse prevention counseling, supportive and assertive case management and referrals to other support services. The TAMIU project team will work in partnership with SCAN and includes Dr. Torregosa; Dr. Marcus Ynalvez, associate professor of sociology; Dr. Elizabeth Terrazas-Carrillo, assistant professor in the department of psychology and communication; and María del Rosario Benavides, project coordinator for the Dr. F.M. Canseco School of Nursing. Leading the SCAN team are Dr. Christopher Craddock and Dora Ramírez. Other community partners include the City of Laredo Health Department, Border Region Behavioral Health Center, and Texas A&M University, Torregosa said. “Another project strength is that it involves several stakeholders from the community as an advisory group,” she explained. Congressman Henry Cuellar, TAMIU President Dr. Ray M. Keck III, and representatives from both TAMIU and SCAN present a check for a $900,000 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration to TAMIU-SCAN on Friday for the development of a prevention program for substance abuse and HIV/AIDS as well as viral hepatitis in Webb County.
01.27.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Laredo Community College (LCC) President Juan L. Maldonado announced a $1.1 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Education to LCC Student Support Services (SSS). The grant will be distributed over five years ($220,000 per year) and will help continue to increase the academic success of students at LCC who are low-income, first-generation or those who have learning disabilities. Joining Congressman Cuellar and President Maldonado was Manuel L. Garcia, student support services director at LCC. The grant, which has just been renewed for the third time since Congressman Cuellar started in office in 2005, could help many of the students at Laredo Community College, where in the fall of 2013, enrollment averaged 8,726 students. Sixty-two percent of these students were low-income, 89 percent were first-generation and 2.7 percent had a disclosed disability. The grant proposes to serve 300 eligible students per year and aims to improve student outcomes and four-year graduation rates through tutorial interventions, semester grade checks, supplemental instruction, financial aid counseling, academic advising and other individualized counseling services. “As a graduate of LCC myself, I know the successes this institution can prepare students for,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Higher education is the pathway to success in life, and I believe that it’s an opportunity that should be made available to everyone in our community. The system can be difficult for students with unique backgrounds and abilities, and by making these new grant funds available for students’ success, LCC will further prepare students to do great things both here at home in Laredo and beyond.” “We are extremely grateful to Congressman Cuellar and the Department of Education for their continued support for Laredo Community College. This $1.1 million grant for our Student Support Services program will go a long way towards providing our students with the academic support they need to succeed at LCC and beyond. We look forward to continuing to help our students in our community,” LCC President Dr. Juan L. Maldonado said. Researchers at Northwestern University and Stanford University have previously found that intervention projects like SSS have proved particularly successful with first-generation students. From left to right: Dr. Juan Maldonado, president of Laredo Community College, Congressman Henry Cuellar, and Manuel L. Garcia, Student Support Services Director at Laredo Community College announce a $1.1 million Student Support Services Grant from the U.S. Department of Education to Laredo Community College on Wednesday.
01.22.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced two grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Airport Improvement Program to the Laredo International Airport totaling $13.5 million. The first grant is for $6 million and will be used to mitigate airport noise in the residential area adjacent to the airport by providing sound insulation for 60 residences in close vicinity to the airport. The FAA will also purchase 16 residences and acquire avigation easement of 50 residences. The second grant is for $7.5 million and will be used for full reconstruction of an existing taxiway at the airport, which is over two decades old and poses safety concerns due to decay. The City of Laredo will add $1.3 million in matching funds for a total investment of $14.8 million. “In the last five years, aircraft operations have doubled, placing Laredo among the top 10 busiest federal contract tower airports. The increase in air traffic has caused noise concerns for neighboring residences, and these grants will fix many of those concerns,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The existing taxiway has also not kept up with the growth and expansion of the airport. These funds will allow for a complete reconstruction to be up to par with high demand. I thank Laredo International Airport Director Jose Flores, without whose advice and guidance this project would not have been possible.” “This is great news for the City of Laredo and for the Laredo International Airport,” said City Manager Jesus M. Olivares. “We are excited to have the FAA here to consider the possibility of having a new air traffic control tower. The new tower will bring the tower into the 21st century, serve Laredo for the next 40 years, improve the working conditions for our air traffic controllers, and enhance aviation safety.” “Taxiway ‘G’ is the last remaining pavement section on the airfield needing reconstruction, pavement that dates back to the early 1940s. We thank and appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s support in making our airport a flagship world class airport”, said Jose Flores, director of the Laredo International Airport Kelvin L. Solco, Regional Administrator FAA’s Southwest Region, Vaughn Turner, Vice President of FAA’s Technical Operations, and Ignacio Flores, FAA Airport Southwest Region Manager were hosted by Congressman Cuellar in Laredo, where they toured the current Laredo air traffic control tower, constructed by the U.S. Air Force in 1970, to take into consideration the possibility of constructing a new tower. Now more than 40 years old, the tower suffers from a number of structural and other problems that inhibit operations and pose safety risks to air traffic employees, including: · asbestos · no emergency escape exit · no space to make room for new and modern equipment and technology · no back-up power · communication disruptions with aircraft · inadequate air conditioning · the current traffic control tower is located along the flight line, which inhibits aviation development To help with this issue, Congressman Cuellar successfully included $10 million in additional funding over FY2015 in the new government funding bill to air traffic contract towers across the country. Air traffic contract towers are staffed by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)-certified air traffic controllers who work for private firms. The additional $10 million in federal funds represents a total of $154.4 million. In addition, he included language encouraging the FAA to focus on improvements to towers that are more than 40 years old, such as the tower at the Laredo International Airport. Laredo International Airport is home to the brand-new, state-of-the-art Bi-National Federal Inspection Services facility that allows Mexican-bound cargo to be pre-cleared on the U.S. side of the border. Laredo International Airport is among the top 50 airports in the country for cargo and is also the only airport on our southern border with U.S. customs availability 24/7/365. Congressman Henry Cuellar, along with the City of Laredo and the Federal Aviation Administration, today announced $13.5 million in federal funds for improvements at the Laredo International Airport.
01.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), along with Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA-9), chairman of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee; Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23); Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff; and members of the San Antonio City Council met at San Antonio City Hall to announce nearly $933 million worth of Bexar County highway projects that could be funded under the new federal highway bill and thank Chairman Shuster for his efforts throughout the drafting of the bill. A list of these projects can be found here. Aside from the $933 million, the new highway bill also designates as part of the national Primary Freight Network the stretch of Interstate Highway 35 between San Antonio and Laredo. This new designation recognizes the importance of that stretch of road to the nation’s economy and makes it eligible for additional federal highway funding. These local transportation projects could be a boost for Bexar County, with new infrastructure projects creating new jobs and lessening traffic congestion. “Bexar County has grown at a phenomenal rate of 33 percent since 2000, leading to traffic congestion,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This federal funding totaling $933 million for Bexar County will be used to work on necessary projects on Interstate Highway 410, State Loop 13 and Interstate Highway 10, among other roads, to help with transportation and commerce for both local residents and travelers.” “The FAST Act will be one of the biggest accomplishments of this Congress because it helps repair and improve our roads, bridges, and critical infrastructure, from San Antonio to Pennsylvania, and everywhere throughout the United States,” Shuster said. “The FAST Act also makes a number of key reforms that will make our transportation programs work better. The law gives more flexibility to states and local governments, who know their needs better than Washington bureaucrats, it cuts federal red tape that slows down projects, and it focuses on priorities that will help grow the economy, like moving freight along I-35 and other critical transportation corridors across the country. I appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s work in helping move this important jobs legislation through the Congress.”
01.20.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), along with Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA-9), chairman of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and representatives from the City of Laredo and the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), announced today nearly $100 million in federal funds for eligible highway projects in Webb County under the new federal highway bill. Lists and maps of the eligible highway projects in Laredo and Webb County can be found here. Chairman Shuster was hosted by Congressman Cuellar and toured the vast international commerce infrastructure in Laredo, including the large volume of truck traffic that crosses over Laredo’s World Trade Bridge every day. Aside from these federal funds, the new highway bill also designates as part of the national Primary Freight Network the stretch of Interstate Highway 35 (IH-35) between San Antonio and Laredo. This new designation recognizes the crucial role that the Laredo Port of Entry and IH-35 play in the nation’s economy and makes that stretch of road eligible for additional federal highway funding. The highway bill also helps Webb County by allowing border states to set aside funding specifically for border transportation infrastructure projects. These local transportation changes could be a boost for commerce and transportation in Webb County, with new infrastructure projects creating jobs and lessening traffic congestion. “Webb County is growing at a phenomenal rate of 38 percent since 2000, leading to traffic congestion,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This federal funding totaling $100 million for Webb County will be used to work on necessary projects on IH 35, US 59, and US 83 to help with transportation and commerce for both local residents and travelers.” “The FAST Act will be one of the biggest accomplishments of this Congress because it helps repair and improve our roads, bridges, and critical infrastructure, from San Antonio to Pennsylvania, and everywhere throughout the United States,” Shuster said. “The FAST Act also makes a number of key reforms that will make our transportation programs work better. The law gives more flexibility to states and local governments, who know their needs better than Washington bureaucrats, it cuts federal red tape that slows down projects, and it focuses on priorities that will help grow the economy, like moving freight along I-35 and other critical transportation corridors across the country. I appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s work in helping move this important jobs legislation through the Congress.”
01.15.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the second year of a four-year, $2 million federal grant to tackle HIV/AIDS in Laredo. The first budget year’s grant amount was $500,000. The grant, which runs from 2014 to 2018, is for a total of $2 million and was awarded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to help the City of Laredo Health Department combine comprehensive HIV/AIDS services with services for co-occurring substance abuse and/or behavioral health disorders. The program will reduce the risk of HIV transmission, improve outcomes for those living with HIV, and ultimately reduce new infections. Congressman Cuellar facilitated the interaction between Laredo city officials and SAMHSA. “According to the Centers for Disease Control, HIV/AIDS is a disease that affects Hispanics and Latinos as well as the residents of Webb County disproportionately,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Accessible health care is a priority of mine, so it was important to me to help the city secure these funds.” “This project is a demonstration of how two providers can work together to improve critically important health care for HIV/AIDs persons who have a behavioral health or substance abuse prevention need,” said Dr. Hector F. Gonzalez, director of the City of Laredo Health Department, who spoke at the press conference. According to the Texas Department of State Health Services, Webb County is ranked: • 16th in a list of 25 Texas counties with the highest number of HIV diagnoses. • 19th in a list of the 25 Texas counties with the highest number of AIDS cases. • 22nd among counties with the highest number of people living with HIV. • 22nd in a list of the highest rate of HIV diagnoses. The U.S. is making great strides toward ending the scourge of HIV/AIDS. However, the Hispanic population in the U.S. is still disproportionately affected by HIV. Hispanics/Latinos represent roughly 17 percent of the population but account for roughly 21 percent of people living with HIV as well as 23 percent of new infections each year. According to the Centers for Disease Control, in 2013, Texas was the third highest among the 50 states in the number of HIV diagnoses, and 35.8 percent of those diagnosed in Texas that year were Hispanic or Latino.
01.15.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) took a key step forward in improving customer service at federal agencies. The congressman successfully included language in the recent government funding bill that calls on the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to explain to Congress how it will ensure greater performance across the government and better customer service, a goal the congressman has supported for many years. “One of my primary missions as a member of Congress is to improve the responsiveness of our government,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every day my office hears from constituents who are trying to navigate the bureaucracy of Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service, Medicaid or Medicare, to name a few examples, and need our help to ensure they get the benefits or information they need. I have long pushed for improvements to the way the federal government interacts with taxpayers. There is no reason that any taxpayer who calls the federal government looking for help should not be treated with the same respect a congressional office receives. “Breakdowns in the customer service process are in the headlines daily – from issues concerning our veterans and the VA to retirees who have to wait for more than a year to receive the benefits they’ve earned. Unfortunately, a recent Pew Research poll shows that only 28 percent of Americans have a favorable view of government as a whole. We owe our taxpayers more than delays and service breakdowns; we owe them an effective, efficient, and responsible government because, ultimately, government is in the business of customer service.” In addition to the customer service-specific provision Congressman Cuellar included in the bill, he also added language that would require government agencies to demonstrate progress toward goals. OMB will work with agencies to ensure their requests for funds in Fiscal Year 2017 are directly linked to agency performance plans. In 2010, Cuellar passed landmark government reform legislation, the Government Performance Results Modernization Act, which continues to streamline the federal government, make better use of resources, and eliminate wasteful redundancy. The 2010 law required agencies to identify ambitious goals and perform frequent performance evaluations. Agencies have submitted those reports on a quarterly basis since the law’s passage in 2010 and report a wide range of benefits including improved collaboration between agencies and the ability to better use federal resources.
01.14.2016	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Filemon Vela (D-TX-34), and Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX-15) welcomed seven of their House Democratic colleagues to the Rio Grande Valley. Visiting are Brad Ashford of Nebraska, Sanford Bishop of Georgia, Jim Costa of California, Gwen Graham of Florida, Kurt Schrader of Oregon, Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, and Mike Thompson of California. “We welcome our House colleagues to South Texas today,” noted Cuellar, Hinojosa and Vela. “As representatives of the region, we are always looking to tell the story of the Rio Grande Valley and South Texas. Hosting our fellow members of Congress gives us the opportunity to show them how important our region is, not just to the U.S.-Mexico border and the state of Texas, but to the nation as a whole. Energy, agriculture, and trade are extremely vital both locally and nationally. We hope that our colleagues will come away from their visit more informed and with a heightened sense of the complex dynamics of South Texas. We encourage them to join us in spreading the message that what happens here impacts the entire nation.” Cuellar, Vela, Hinojosa, and their colleagues will be meeting with key regional stakeholders this afternoon to learn about the contributions of our workers in South Texas.
01.13.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) offered his thoughts on President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address delivered Tuesday evening. The address touched on a number of topics but centered on four main questions: • How do we give everyone a fair shot at opportunity and security in this new economy? • How do we make technology work for us, and not against us – especially when it comes to solving urgent challenges like climate change? • How do we keep America safe and lead the world without becoming its policeman? • How can we make our politics reflect what’s best in us and not what’s worst? Throughout the address, the president called repeatedly on Congress to heal the wounds that have driven apart both sides of the aisle and expressed his regret that the rancor between the two parties had only grown stronger during his administration. “The president’s address yesterday evening was not groundbreaking in its proposals,” Congressman Cuellar said. “However, it served as an excellent capstone to his presidency. By focusing on the need to work together rather than the need to satisfy niche constituencies, we can move America forward and not hold it back. “The United States is the greatest nation on Earth, but it, too, faces its fair share of challenges. We have made great gains in the areas of expanding health coverage and creating strong job growth, but issues remain – closing educational achievement gaps, building a new energy landscape, developing a new international trade agreement, and dealing with national security threats abroad cannot be solved with name-calling or political one-upmanship. “Every State of the Union speech, we hear the same call for bipartisanship, but there is typically not enough follow-through for it to be more than a line in a speech. This past year and throughout my time in Congress, I proved that members from both parties can come together to address our nation’s challenges. From addressing the Central American immigrant situation and lifting the ban on crude oil exports, to securing funding for a new federal courthouse in San Antonio, and increasing customer service standards at federal agencies, 2015 was a banner year for bipartisan achievement in the House. “But work remains to be done. With the president in his final year of office, we cannot lose sight of the goals yet to be accomplished or ignore the threats that remain. “As the president said last night, the state of our union is strong, but it can be made even stronger.”
01.13.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), long a champion of homeownership, announced today that he successfully included language making residents of colonias eligible to participate in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Self-help Homeownership Program (SHOP). The program will help those who live in communities that lack some of the most basic living necessities, such as potable water and sewer systems, electricity, paved roads, and safe and sanitary housing, according to HUD. For decades, Congressman Cuellar has sought to prevent the creation of new colonias. In the Texas Legislature, Congressman Cuellar passed the landmark H.B. 1001 to help stop the growth of colonias in Texas. He also sponsored legislation that created colonia self-help centers to provide home financing assistance and other services. As Texas Secretary of State, the congressman continued this work by expanding the Border/Mexico Affairs Office to help the colonias. Colonias are located within 150 miles of the U.S. – Mexico border in Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Texas, and have existed for decades. According to the Texas Attorney General, 500,000 people live in the 2,294 colonias in the state of Texas. Compared to the four other states on our southern border, Texas has the largest population living in colonias and the largest number of colonias along the Mexican border. The following six Texas counties have the highest concentration of colonias: El Paso, Maverick, Webb, Starr, Hidalgo, and Cameron; 369,500 people reside in the colonias in these six counties alone. Congressman Cuellar represents Webb and Starr counties and shares representation of Hidalgo County. "I have stood in the one-room, tar paper and tin houses with dirt floors and no running water. As Americans we must not rest while some among us live in third-world conditions,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It has taken me nearly 20 years to finally shut down the creation of new colonias, and now it is time to give colonia residents the opportunity to leave and raise their kids in safe homes and safe neighborhoods." First established by Congress in 1996 by the Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act, SHOP is a competitive grant program intended to make it easier for Americans to own their own home. In Fiscal Year 2015, HUD made available nearly $10 million for the program. National and regional nonprofit organizations with experience implementing the self-help model are eligible to apply for SHOP funding. Specifically, SHOP funds must be used to buy land and make improvements needed to build new homes for colonia residents. As a condition of the money being awarded, residents must contribute to the construction of their new home. SHOP units must be safe, and sanitary and in compliance with state and local housing codes and zoning requirements. These homes must also meet standards for energy efficiency, water conservation and accessibility. The program also requires that these units be sold at affordable prices. For more information about HUD’s Self-help Home Ownership Program (SHOP) please visit: http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/comm_planning/affordablehousing/programs/shop
01.12.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today that he had secured funding in the recently passed federal funding bill for 55 new immigration judges and support staff to reduce immigration backlogs. The new judges would be in addition to the over 260 immigration judges already in the 58-court system. This system includes 35 judges in nine courts in Texas. The congressman originally requested this funding in March 2015. “The latest reports of the immigration backlog show that almost half a million cases are currently pending, and I’m grateful to my friend from Texas, Congressman John Culberson, Chairman of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, for including my request for increased funds for immigration judges and staff to decrease the backlog,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We’ve worked together, across the aisle, since our days in the Texas Legislature on everything from establishing Stonegarden, which provides funding for border sheriffs, to solving this backlog issue. I am grateful for his support.” “I want to thank Congressman Cuellar for his leadership on this issue,” said Chairman Culberson. “Processing and adjudicating immigration cases is an important part of upholding our nation’s laws. The funding in this bill will help reduce the growing backlog of cases that are holding up our courts and compromising the rule of law. The bill also increases investment in our U.S. Attorneys, Marshals, DEA and ATF agents and others who sit on the front lines of our immigration and criminal justice systems and who are tasked with upholding our laws.” In addition to the funding for new Judges, Congressman Cuellar advocated language to increase transparency in immigration family detention facilities for those awaiting their day in court. “We must treat people with the respect and dignity they deserve,” Congressman Cuellar said. “To that end I advocated the increase in transparency at our nation’s immigration detention facilities to ensure people are receiving appropriate food, water, and medical care and are not being treated in inappropriate and demeaning ways. Even in our nation’s detention centers we must adhere to the Golden Rule.”
01.11.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) will host fifth-grade student Anthony Garcia, 11, from Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary School in Laredo, Texas, to see President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union Address on Tuesday, January 12 at 8 p.m. CST at the House Chamber at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. “Education is the great equalizer. I fully believe in providing our students with the resources and experiences to take them farther in life,” said Congressman Cuellar. “On Tuesday, Anthony will be seated by me and all of our nation’s representatives and senators to listen to President Obama’s State of the Union address. The next day, my staff will guide him and his father on a tour of our nation’s capital to see historical monuments and the White House. “As he listens to President Obama speak on our nation’s most important issues, I hope that Anthony will take this opportunity to realize that he can accomplish any dream as long as he is dedicated and continues his education.” Congressman Cuellar will fully cover airfare and hotel accommodations for Anthony and his father, Alejandro Moncivais. “I’m excited, but nervous at the same time. This will be my first time out of Texas and my first time on a plane,” Anthony said. “My friends and teacher were asking me if I had won, and I said yes. My teacher was jumping with joy.” Anthony, who is in the Gifted and Talented program at United Independent School District (UISD), enjoys playing basketball and reading about history. His favorite school subjects are reading, math and science. He wants to either become an architect or a senator when he grows up. Anthony was chosen out of 105 fifth-grade students at the school who participated in an essay-writing competition about positive habits that have made them a better leader, and why they would like to see President Obama’s State of the Union Address in Washington. “Our school follows the leadership habits of Stephen Covey. We had our fifth grade students write a one-page essay explaining how the habits have helped them to become a great leader and what they felt they could learn from the trip,” said Melissa Shinn, Principal of Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary. Out of the school’s four fifth-grade classes, the top three essays were chosen from each class. Twelve finalists were then interviewed and the top three candidates were further interviewed by UISD representatives. “Out of all of them, Anthony did an incredible job, and won the spot,” Shinn said. "This opportunity ties into our 7 Habits of Great Leaders theme at Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary. For our students to be able to see the leaders of our country in action and know that they've gone to college and are now living their dreams really reinforces what we're trying to teach-to think with the ‘End in Mind’ and anyone can reach their goals. I can't thank Congressman Cuellar enough for this opportunity," Shinn added. "On behalf of our Board of Trustees, I would like to thank Congressman Cuellar for offering this great opportunity to our student, Anthony Garcia and his parents. It's going to be an experience that he'll never forget," said United ISD Superintendent Roberto J. Santos. Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary fifth grader Anthony Garcia, (center), was chosen out of 105 fifth-grade students to attend President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union speech with Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Jan. 12 in Washington, D.C. From left to right: Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary Principal Melissa Shinn, fifth grade student Anthony Garcia and his mother, Paulina Moncivais. From left to right are Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary fifth-grade teacher Jessica Martinez, Principal Melissa Shinn, fifth-grader Anthony Garcia and his parents Paulina and Alejandro Moncivais.
01.08.2016	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that he secured a $2.5 million-dollar increase in federal funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Outreach Program to Reduce the Prevalence of Obesity in High Risk Areas (those counties with an obesity rate above 40 percent). Hidalgo County is the only county in the congressman’s district that meets the program’s criteria. Congressman Cuellar secured the additional funds through the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 government funding bill passed last month. In FY 2016, the program will have a total of $10 million. “The health and well-being of our community is something I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have always supported legislation, like the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, that promotes nutrition, healthy weight, and fitness. Investing in federal programs that aim to reduce obesity is smart public policy. Preventive health care helps our citizens lead longer, healthier lives and reduces our spending on medical care. This money will give our communities the resources they need to better tackle obesity and the many diseases associated with it.” The Texas A&M University AgriLife Extension Office receives funding from this program to work with local officials in Hidalgo County, where obesity rates are over 40 percent, to implement obesity prevention strategies. Hidalgo County extension coordinators are in the process of organizing coalitions of local leaders to address obesity and focus on what small rural areas can do to improve access to healthy food and safe opportunities for physical activity, including improving local farmers markets, local parks, and access to exercise equipment. “The CDC Outreach Program to Reduce the Prevalence of Obesity in High Risk Areas is vital to helping communities like Hidalgo County create healthier environments,” said Jenna Anding, professor and Extension specialist with the Texas A&M AgriLife Extension Service. “We appreciate the congressman’s work to increase funding for projects that groups like ours can use to change the habits and food options that are linked to obesity.” Obesity is a major public health problem in the United States. According to the CDC: • More than one-third (34.9 percent or 78.6 million) of U.S. adults are obese while almost 32 percent of U.S. children and adolescents between the ages of 2 and 19 are overweight • More than half of those children are considered obese. • 42.9 percent of adults in Hidalgo County are obese. • Children and adolescents who are overweight or obese have a higher risk of developing high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and abnormal glucose tolerance, which are risk factors for developing heart disease, diabetes and other dangerous health conditions. • Obesity in adults is also associated with an increased risk of a number of conditions, including diabetes, heart disease, stroke, hypertension, and certain cancers, all of which are among the leading causes of preventable death in the United States.
01.07.2016	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of provisions to speed the control and removal of Carrizo cane and other invasive species along the Rio Grande in the government funding bill. This is a continuation of Congressman Cuellar's years-long leadership on this environmental and security issue. Carrizo cane is a fast-growing invasive plant species that has overtaken many patches of land along the river. The cane can reach a height of over 25 feet in as little as 12 months and presents considerable obstacles for national security and the protection of our 1,255-mile Rio Grande border by reducing visibility within enforcement areas for the U.S. Border Patrol. “I have long been concerned about the impact of Carrizo cane and other invasive plant species on the activities of CBP agents along the Rio Grande. In addition to providing those attempting to cross our southern border with a place to hide, Carrizo cane chokes waterways, erodes banks and water canals, damages bridges, and inhibits native biodiversity. The recently-passed omnibus appropriations bill includes language directing CBP to work with the Texas State Soil and Water Conservation Board; other federal, state, and local stakeholders; and the Government of Mexico on efforts to control Carrizo cane and other invasive species along the Rio Grande River.” “An effective eradication program will give our CBP and Border Patrol agents greater visibility while enhancing officer safety when patrolling Texas’ southern border. I thank Congressman John Carter (R-TX-31), Chairman of the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, for his support of this bill provision.” “In order to help meet Governor Greg Abbott’s border security priorities, the Texas Legislature in mid-2015 gave the responsibility of controlling invasive Carrizo cane along the Rio Grande to the Texas State Soil and Water Conservation Board. Amid a diversity of complex issues, we must develop a long-term, landscape-scale carrizo cane control program that will necessitate funding from a variety of sources,” said Johnny Oswald, Program Administrator for the Rio Grande Carrizo Cane Eradication Program at the Texas State Soil and Water Conservation Board. “The State of Texas appreciates Congressman Cuellar’s leadership in pushing for federal provisions to speed the removal of carrizo cane along the Rio Grande. We look forward to working with CBP and Border Patrol agents in Texas, along with other local, state, federal, and international stakeholders on this monumental task,” Oswald added. The omnibus appropriations bill requires that CBP brief Congress within 120 days with an action plan that includes resource requirements and efforts to the approval of new biological control agents. The plan will address progress made, a plan for working with stakeholders to make future progress, strategies under consideration by other federal agencies as well as state and local stakeholders, and efforts to also work with the Mexican government to eradicate or control Carrizo cane on the Mexican side of the river. The invasive Carrizo cane, as shown in the photo above, consumes water resources, does not provide any food sources or nesting habitats for native wildlife and actually increases riverbank erosion and flooding on the Rio Grande. The cane also decreases visibility and access for law enforcement on the Texas-Mexico border. (Photo courtesy of the Texas State Soil and Water Conservation Board)
01.06.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today that through language he successfully included in the Fiscal Year 2016 government funding bill, land ports of entry across his district will now be eligible for U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) infrastructure grants. The federal government funding bill will make available a total of $500 million in federal funding for TIGER grants. These grants make vital infrastructure improvements that ease the flow of traffic and will now be available to make our border crossings more efficient. “Our ports of entry can now receive federal funding through TIGER grants to make important infrastructure improvements,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My district is home to the nation’s largest inland port and numerous other significant ports of entry. It is imperative that our nation’s ports and trade centers, such as those in my district and those along the border with Mexico – our nation’s third-largest trading partner and second-largest export market – receive the necessary funding to remain in peak condition. The availability of this funding will ensure that our economy continues moving forward.” “Once again, Rep. Cuellar has demonstrated why he is so highly regarded by the border trade community,” Border Trade Alliance Chairman Russ Jones said. “Ensuring that our ports of entry are now eligible for TIGER grants is a major accomplishment that will go far in bolstering our ports’ infrastructure, helping to alleviate the congestion that slows cross-border commerce. We very much appreciate Rep. Cuellar’s efforts and thank him for being such a strong advocate for the border.” The $500 million available under TIGER in FY 16 covers highway and bridge projects; transit projects; passenger and freight rail projects; and now infrastructure projects at land ports of entry. Under TIGER, municipalities, counties, port authorities, tribal governments, metropolitan planning organizations, or other entities at the state and local level can apply directly to DOT to receive funding for projects to improve infrastructure and ease the movement of goods and people. In Fiscal Year 2015, DOT awarded $500 million for 39 transportation projects in 34 states from its TIGER program. This year, rural areas received 43 percent of the project awards, a higher percentage than in any previous year. DOT received 627 eligible applications from 50 states and several U.S. territories, including tribal governments, requesting 20 times the $500 million available for the program. Among those awarded funds in Fiscal Year 2015 was the Texas Department of Transportation, which received $20.8 million in funds to construct transit facilities in growing rural areas of Texas and purchase replacement transit vehicles that will provide service to rural areas. These new facilities and vehicles will have improved safety and accessibility features for persons with disabilities. For more information on the TIGER Program, please visit: https://www.transportation.gov/tiger.
01.05.2016	Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) successfully included language in the recently-passed omnibus appropriations bill to end tens of billions of dollars in payments to dead people, also known as improper government payments to deceased persons. The language requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to report on the ways it is working to eliminate the misuse of funds, which totaled more than $124 billion in Fiscal Year 2014, an increase over the $106 billion from Fiscal Year 2013. Congressman Cuellar, a long-time champion of government reform and performance-based budgeting, has targeted these improper payments repeatedly during his tenure in Congress. “This type of government waste cannot continue. Taxpayers deserve better from our federal agencies and I am grateful that my fellow House Appropriations Committee members agreed to support my initiative to bring greater accountability to federal spending. This is commonsense reform that is long overdue,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This is unacceptable, and we must ensure proper government oversight to see that government benefits are administered correctly and taxpayer dollars are not wasted. “Many of these improper payments are Social Security benefits being paid to deceased persons. This occurs due to fraud, administrative errors, and poor reporting, among other causes. In FY 2014, 630 people were found to have committed fraud by hiding the fact that someone had died and then in effect defrauding the federal government and stealing the deceased person’s intended benefits. "The 2010 census identified just over 53,000 people over the age of 100, yet the Social Security Administration's Office of the Inspector General identified 6.5 million individuals with Social Security Numbers over the age of 112 who did not have death information. This is a clear case of federal agencies not coordinating and not sharing data that will save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. This review was initiated after a financial institution reported that a man opened bank accounts with several different Social Security Numbers, two of which belonged to persons born in the late 1800s. “In an effort to stop these improper payments, I included language in the omnibus appropriations act requiring the Office of Management and Budget to report on how it is working across government agencies to ensure processes are in place to eliminate these misuses of funds. As a Member of Congress and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, it is my mission to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and efficiently to the benefit of our communities.”
01.04.2016	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX-12), as well as U.S. Ambassador to Costa Rica S. Fitzgerald Haney and Costa Rican Ambassador to the United States Román Macaya, traveled last week to the Costa Rican border with Nicaragua to see firsthand how Central America is dealing with a recent surge of Cuban migrants who are trying to make it to the United States by land, mostly through Texas. During their visit, Congressman Cuellar, Congresswoman Granger and Ambassador Haney visited migrant shelters in Peñas Blancas and La Cruz, Costa Rica, at the border with Nicaragua, where as many as 8,000 Cuban migrants have been stranded without money or resources since November 15, when Nicaragua shut its borders to Cuban migrants looking to travel through their territory en route to the United States. Cuban migration to the United States has surged for the past two years, among ongoing talks between the United States and Cuba to restore diplomatic relations. Due to the possibility of normalizing relations between the two countries, many Cubans fear the end of a special immigration policy given to Cuban citizens under the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act. Under the Cuban Adjustment Act and subsequent policy directives those who reach the United States by land can apply for residency, while those who are interdicted at sea are sent back to their country, this is more commonly known as the “Wet Foot/Dry Foot” policy. Thousands of Cubans in the past year have flown from their country to Ecuador and traveled by land through Central America before being stranded in Costa Rica since November 15. An agreement for a pilot program was made by Central American countries last week and allows for these migrants to fly from Costa Rica to El Salvador, where they will continue their journey to the U.S. via bus through Guatemala and Mexico. According to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, over 43,000 Cuban migrants crossed into the United States in FY 2015, and 28,000 of these migrants, or around two-thirds, have crossed through the Laredo field office on the Texas-Mexico border. That’s more than double the number in FY 14, when over 24,000 Cuban migrants entered the United States, with over 15,000, about two thirds, entering through Laredo. “As I met with migrants and they were telling me their stories, I asked them where their place of entry into the U.S. will be. Most of them said my hometown of Laredo, Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Many connect to relatives and others in the United States via smart phone applications such as WhatsApp while they are making the journey. Migrants buy new SIM cards in each country they travel through so they can keep connected. “The 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, also known as the ‘wet foot, dry foot’ policy, is a relic of the Cold War. We should not condone this very dangerous route that many Cubans are taking, as human traffickers can very easily prey on those who are in need. I believe Congress needs to eliminate this outdated policy.” “I thank Congresswoman Granger, chair of the House State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, and who headed the House Speaker’s Working Group on national security and the humanitarian crisis on the southern border last year, for her continued help on this issue. In a bipartisan manner, Chairwoman Granger and I helped add $750 million in funding to Central America in the omnibus to implement strategies to help reduce illegal immigration to the United States and bolster regional governance, prosperity, and security. We need to continue to help Central America and Costa Rica to address this situation. I also thank Ambassador Haney and Ambassador Macaya, as well as the representatives and people of Costa Rica, who have shown great compassion in helping these stranded migrants,” Cuellar added. Congressman Cuellar(third from left) meets with (from left to right) Costa Rican Ambassador to the U.S. Román Macaya, U.S. Ambassador to Costa Rica S. Fitzgerald Haney and Congresswoman Kay Granger in Peñas Blancas, Costa Rica on December 29 to discuss the Cuban migration crisis in Central America. CR31: Congressman Cuellar speaks with Carlos Matías Gonzaga Martínez, mayor of La Cruz, Costa Rica, on the border with Nicagura, regarding the Cuban migration situation. Coincidentally, La Cruz, Costa Rica, is also a sister city with Laredo, Texas. Congressman Cuellar, while on the Costa Rican side of the border, shakes hands with a Nicaraguan migrant official on the Nicaraguan side of the border. CR28: Congressman Cuellar speaks to a Cuban migrant in Peñas Blancas, Costa Rica on December 29. CR19: Congressman Cuellar (right) speaks with two Cuban doctors who are also migrating through Central America to reach the United States by land. Cuban migrants rest at a local Shelter in Peñas Blancas, Costa Rica. Thousands of migrants have been stranded in Costa Rica without money or resources since November. A Cuban migrant at a shelter in Costa Rica counts her money as she rations her resources for the journey to the United States. R29: Costa Rican shelters have taken in Cuban migrants who have been stranded in the country on their way to the United States. Congressman Cuellar speaks to Cuban migrants in Costa Rica about the risks take and their reasons for making the journey from Cuba to the United States. For many migrants, their destination is Laredo, Texas.
12.22.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the awarding of $26.8 million for long-awaited renovations to the Gateway to the Americas International Bridge, also known as Convent Avenue Bridge I in Laredo. In June of 2015, Congressman Cuellar announced a $62 million in federal funding for renovations to the Juárez-Lincoln International Bridge, also known as Bridge II. The combined funding for renovations to both bridges in Laredo are approximately $88.8 which Congressman Cuellar secured during the U.S. House Appropriations Committee Fiscal Year 2014 Budget. A press conference will be held in Laredo in the near future. Long overdue, the current Bridge I is 70 years old and is the oldest of Laredo’s four ports. Its last major renovation was more than 25 years ago. This new funding will allow for a complete internal renovation of the main building to optimize the space to improve pedestrian flow through the port. Currently, the bridge has 8 pedestrian booths (three indoor, five outdoor) and 4 automobile booths. U.S.-bound traffic statistics for 2014 show Bridge I had approximately 3.5 million pedestrian crossings and 1.3 million automobile crossings, with an estimated 2.5 million estimated automobile passengers. The facility is in need of an updated design to improve wait times, waiting conditions and accessibility for visitors with disabilities or other physical impartments. As part of this project, improvements will be made to increase the number of pedestrian processing lanes to 14 and add a dedicated bicycle lane, reconfigure the primary car inspection lanes, upgrade and modernize the secondary area for further inspection, modernize security systems so drivers and pedestrians can flow through the port faster and renovate the pedestrian canopy to shade them from the sun while waiting in line. All of these improvements will make the process of moving pedestrians and automobile passengers faster, safer and more efficient. This should reduce peak automobile wait times from 33 to 15 minutes, and peak pedestrian wait times from 49 to 21 minutes. The renovations for Bridge I will begin in April 2016 and will last approximately 22 months. Mexico-bound traffic, along with U.S.-bound bicycle and pedestrian traffic will not be affected during this process. However, all U.S.-bound automobiles will be re-routed to the Juárez-Lincoln Point of Entry (Bridge II), for an estimated 14-18 months. Construction for the $62 million Bridge II renovation began in September 2015 and is expected to be completed by Spring 2018. Bridge II ranked as the busiest crossing for bus passengers in Fiscal Year 2014, with an average of 2,796 passengers per day (125-150 bus crossings per day). The layout of Bridge II is outdated, which contributes to long wait times. Currently, bus processing occurs in an outdoor area that is ill-equipped for the massive bus traffic the port receives. Both the bus and automobile inspections currently occur in exterior spaces, which subjects travelers to uncomfortable and extreme temperatures common to our area. The new design will include a new bus and automobile inspection canopies and the construction of a new combined bus and passenger vehicle inspection facility, which will improve the flow and processing of bus and automobile traffic. It will also provide a very positive first impression of Laredo and the United States for travelers while providing for their safety and national security. The improved bus configuration is expected to reduce peak transit times from 160 to just 40 minutes. “Laredo is strategically located between two great powerhouses for commerce. This project, along with the current improvements that are already underway at the Juárez-Lincoln International Bridge, represents an enormous $88.8 million federal investment in our community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These international bridges provide a vital service to our area by increasing commerce and tourism and connecting families across the border. By enhancing traveler experience, shortening wait times and increasing both efficiency and security at our ports, we are investing heavily in a more modern and business-friendly Laredo that will aid us tremendously in our future growth. Families, travelers and businesses will be able to soon reap the benefits of these newly-improved layouts with state-of-the-art technology.” Sylvia Hernandez, the Regional Administrator for the General Services Administration stated, “GSA is pleased to announce the award for the modernization of the Convent Avenue Bridge in Laredo. The project will increase efficiency and improve safety and security for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic. It will also help CBP to accomplish its mission to safeguard America’s borders.” “I thank Sylvia Hernandez, GSA Regional Administrator, and David Higgerson, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Director of Field Operations for the Laredo Field Office, for their tremendous work on these projects, as well as Mayor Pete Saenz, City Manager Jesus Olivares, and the Laredo City Council for their support” continued Congressman Cuellar. “In addition, we will work with the City of Laredo, the City of Nuevo Laredo, CBP, Mexican Customs and the private sector to minimize disruption to the flow of traffic and surrounding businesses during construction.” An artist rendering (above) shows the point of view of U.S.-bound automobile traffic on the Gateway of the Americas International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) A wider view of the north-bound traffic with images of the pedestrian walkway on the right. (Images courtesy of GSA) Inside the automobile traffic processing booths at the Gateway of the Americas International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) A view of the proposed bicycle lane at Gateway of the Americas International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) A view of the pedestrian passageway in between CBP offices at the Gateway of the Americas Port of Entry and La Posada Hotel. Once clearing customs, pedestrians will use this passageway which leads to an exit on Convent Street in downtown Laredo. (Images courtesy of GSA) A remodeled customs building at the Gateway to the Americas Port of Entry will allow for more efficient processing of pedestrian traffic, while allowing providing protection from intense heat and other elements. (Images courtesy of GSA) The Plaza de Amistad, seen here from Convent Street in downtown Laredo, will provide an inviting presence and design for travelers crossing through the Gateway of the Americas Port of Entry. (Images courtesy of GSA) A map shows the current automobile, pedestrian and bicycle traffic flow of the Gateway to the Americas Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) A map shows the new proposed design for automobile, pedestrian and bicycle traffic flow at the Gateway of the Americas International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) A rendering shows an exterior view of an improved bus and passenger vehicle processing center at the Juárez-Lincoln International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) An interior view of the new bus and passenger vehicle inspection facility at the Juárez-Lincoln International Bridge. (Images courtesy of GSA) An aerial view of the newly-renovated Juárez-Lincoln International Bridge, as seen from downtown Laredo, Texas. (Images courtesy of GSA) ###
12.18.2015	Reps. Barton (R-TX) and Cuellar (D-TX) commend the House for passing H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which includes lifting the ban on crude oil exports. Barton and Cuellar have worked in a bipartisan and bicameral capacity to carry this crucial policy fix across the finish line. At a time when legislators so rarely cross the aisle figuratively or the floor of the Capitol rotunda to the other chamber physically, Barton and Cuellar did both and demonstrated the power of Congress to work for the benefit of all Americans. Barton introduced legislation (H.R. 702) to lift the antiquated ban on crude exports in February; he also introduced the same bill in the previous Congress. Support for this bill grew very quickly and gained the approval of leadership and key stakeholders. In October, the House passed H.R. 702. Since passage, both Reps. Barton and Cuellar have worked to include legislation to lift the ban in any major bill that came to the house floor. The window finally opened in the omnibus last week as both Barton and Cuellar worked with colleagues in the House and Senate for inclusion. “This represents the most substantial energy policy enacted in a generation,” stated Barton. “Of the remaining scarcity energy policies from the 1970s, lifting the ban on exports was the last vestige of unnecessary government overreach from the time. We have given all Americans a big Christmas present- one that will provide hundreds of thousands of jobs, bolster our economy, and keep the energy revolution in America alive and well.” “The inclusion of a repeal of the crude oil export ban in the omnibus appropriations package is a key step toward strengthening the U.S. economy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The crude oil export ban comes from a time of oil scarcity when Americans waited in gas lines to fill up their tanks. But today, the resurgence of the domestic oil industry has made this ban a hindrance to economic prosperity. As the Representative for the active Eagle Ford Shale, I understand the positive impacts lifting this ban will have in my district and across the country. Lifting this ban will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, increase our GDP by $134 billion, raise government revenues by $29 billion and lower gas prices by up to 12 cents. Repealing this ban will also enhance our national security by allowing the U.S. to compete against OPEC and limit Russia and Iran’s hold on the global oil market. I would like to thank Congressman Barton for his leadership and for his commitment to this important cause.” Barton added, “Lifting the ban will have an immediate impact on all Texans. As rig counts have been down, we must keep the energy boom alive. At a time of global unrest, energy security is one of the surest ways to maintain and grow our influence in volatile areas around the world. Today, the American people won and with US crude on the world market, the world is a better place.”
12.18.2015	Reps. Barton (R-TX) and Cuellar (D-TX) commend the House for passing H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, which includes lifting the ban on crude oil exports. Barton and Cuellar have worked in a bipartisan and bicameral capacity to carry this crucial policy fix across the finish line. At a time when legislators so rarely cross the aisle figuratively or the floor of the Capitol rotunda to the other chamber physically, Barton and Cuellar did both and demonstrated the power of Congress to work for the benefit of all Americans. Barton introduced legislation (H.R. 702) to lift the antiquated ban on crude exports in February; he also introduced the same bill in the previous Congress. Support for this bill grew very quickly and gained the approval of leadership and key stakeholders. In October, the House passed H.R. 702. Since passage, both Reps. Barton and Cuellar have worked to include legislation to lift the ban in any major bill that came to the house floor. The window finally opened in the omnibus last week as both Barton and Cuellar worked with colleagues in the House and Senate for inclusion. “This represents the most substantial energy policy enacted in a generation,” stated Barton. “Of the remaining scarcity energy policies from the 1970s, lifting the ban on exports was the last vestige of unnecessary government overreach from the time. We have given all Americans a big Christmas present- one that will provide hundreds of thousands of jobs, bolster our economy, and keep the energy revolution in America alive and well.” “The inclusion of a repeal of the crude oil export ban in the omnibus appropriations package is a key step toward strengthening the U.S. economy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The crude oil export ban comes from a time of oil scarcity when Americans waited in gas lines to fill up their tanks. But today, the resurgence of the domestic oil industry has made this ban a hindrance to economic prosperity. As the Representative for the active Eagle Ford Shale, I understand the positive impacts lifting this ban will have in my district and across the country. Lifting this ban will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, increase our GDP by $134 billion, raise government revenues by $29 billion and lower gas prices by up to 12 cents. Repealing this ban will also enhance our national security by allowing the U.S. to compete against OPEC and limit Russia and Iran’s hold on the global oil market. I would like to thank Congressman Barton for his leadership and for his commitment to this important cause.” Barton added, “Lifting the ban will have an immediate impact on all Texans. As rig counts have been down, we must keep the energy boom alive. At a time of global unrest, energy security is one of the surest ways to maintain and grow our influence in volatile areas around the world. Today, the American people won and with US crude on the world market, the world is a better place.”
12.18.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced he had worked with representatives from other citrus-growing regions, including California and Florida, to secure $5.5 million in additional federal funding in the proposed government funding package to tackle citrus greening disease and aid the citrus industry in Texas, Florida and California. The funding will come in a combination of a one-time funding increase and a previously approved allocation of $2 million. Huanglongbing (HLB), also known as citrus greening disease, greens ripe citrus and misshapes the fruit, making it bitter and unmarketable. The effect of this disease on the $11.2 billion U.S. citrus industry has been damaging, especially in the Rio Grande Valley and Florida. The federal government’s main response to citrus greening disease is implemented by two groups: the HLB Multi-Agency Coordination task force (MAC) and the Citrus Health Response Program (CHRP). Both groups are under the jurisdiction of the federal government but also work with state departments of agriculture and the citrus industry to combat the disease. Through the proposed government funding package, Congressman Cuellar secured an additional $5.5 million for control and management of the disease across the country through September 2017. This money is a one-time allocation on top of the $50 million announced this summer for a total of $55.5 million. Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a non-profit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Gande Valley and has personally seen the effects of the disease since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “It is becoming a very wide-spread problem in the Valley… as serious the situation in Florida already is,” Murden said. “Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? Because that’s what could happen. Quite frankly, it can wipe this industry out and we’ll never have citrus here again until there’s a cure, and there is no cure,” he added. “Citrus greening is beginning to become a real problem for Texas citrus and has devastated citrus groves across the country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The $55.5 million in federal funding is crucial for the fight to save the citrus industry and protect the livelihoods of citrus growers in my district and across the Rio Grande Valley. “We must do everything we can to protect citrus in Texas. I would like to thank my House colleagues, including Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX-15), Filemon Vela (D-TX-34), David Valadao (R-CA-21) and Thomas Rooney (R-FL-17), for their commitment to combating the citrus greening disease and for their assistance in securing these funds in the government funding package.”
12.18.2015	The recently passed omnibus appropriations bill provides $210 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program and $55 million for Operation Stonegarden grants Today Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of $265 million in the federal government funding package to assist states and localities that incur costs for incarcerating undocumented criminals and assist with border security. “The omnibus appropriations act which provides government funding through September 2016 includes $210 million for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). This is an increase of $25 million over Fiscal Year 2015 funding,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The SCAAP provides grants to reimburse local entities for the costs they incur when incarcerating an undocumented criminal foreign national. In 2013, the latest year for which statistics are available, 3.8 percent of individuals incarcerated in state prisons were noncitizens. To give a sense of the size of the undocumented population this affects, in Fiscal Year 2014, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) removed 177,960 individuals who were previously convicted of a crime and in Fiscal Year 2015, ICE removed approximately 235,000 individuals. Of these removals, almost two-thirds were convicted criminals. “While immigration enforcement is a federal responsibility, our state and local law enforcement play a unique role in improving border security. The omnibus appropriations bill also provides $55 million in funding for Operation Stonegarden grants. These grants support enhanced cooperation and coordination between Department of Homeland Security agencies and local, tribal, and state law enforcement to help secure our borders. “These SCAAP and Stonegarden grants play an important role in helping states and localities recoup at least some of the funds they expend carrying out a federal responsibility. I thank our border Sheriffs, who locally administer and carry out the Stonegarden program, for their hard work and cooperation in the joint mission of keeping our communities secure and I thank all of our law enforcement personnel in communities along the border for their support and efforts. I would also thank Congressman John Carter (R-TX-31), chairman of the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee; and Congressman John Culberson (R-TX-7), Chairman of the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee; for their support of these important grant programs.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, Twitter Feed, or YouTube Channel
12.16.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) made the following statement upon the release of the Omnibus Appropriations act for Fiscal Year 2016. Congressman Cuellar fought to have a provision included that would repeal the longstanding ban on the export of U.S. crude oil. “The omnibus appropriations package includes a provision I have been advocating for to lift the 1975 prohibition on the export of U.S. crude oil. This policy comes from a different era and now hurts our economy. By including this provision in the appropriations language, we can move toward a more prosperous U.S. energy sector. “As the representative for the active Eagle Ford Shale, I understand the importance of the energy industry to my district, the state and the nation as a whole. The United States is now one of the world’s leading energy producers, and the domestic benefits of lifting this ban are numerous. They include creating hundreds of thousands of jobs, increasing our GDP by $134 billion, raising government revenues by $29 billion and likely lowering gas prices. Repealing this ban will also benefit our national security by providing another tool in our foreign policy arsenal to allow the U.S. to compete against OPEC and prevent Russia and Iran from claiming an outsize market share among our allies. “I would like to give special thanks to Congressman Joe Barton (R-TX-6) and Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) for their leadership and support on this issue. I would also like to thank the bipartisan group of representatives and senators who have supported us in our efforts to end this decades-old ban.”
12.16.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the inclusion of nearly $948 million in the Fiscal Year 2016 appropriations omnibus package for federal courthouse projects. This money includes funding for the construction of a new federal courthouse for the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas in San Antonio, Texas. In September, Congressman Cuellar, along with the entire San Antonio House of Representatives delegation, introduced legislation to provide emergency funding for the construction. The current John H. Wood, Jr. U.S. Courthouse in San Antonio was built nearly 50 years ago and suited not to the task of administering justice but to hosting part of the 1968 World's Fair. The courthouse as it is currently built causes numerous problems for its users. Judges, jurors, prosecutors and visitors often pass defendants charged with violent crimes in corridors and conveyances around the building. Some of the most violent drug trafficking and organized crime cases are tried in the facility, and its shortcomings, including an unprotected perimeter, pose a threat to the federal employees working there as well as the civilians who pass nearby or use the adjacent playground. The building also suffers from other flaws, including high levels of lead and iron contamination in its water, likely due to poor pipe construction, missing heating and air conditioning controls, and asbestos and mold in and around the HVAC systems. "As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, funding the San Antonio courthouse construction was a priority of mine," Congressman Cuellar said. “The inclusion of the funding for a new federal courthouse will allow for better administration of justice as the current building was never intended for this purpose. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and I fought together in a bipartisan manner to make this funding possible. I would also like to thank Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL-4), chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government; the other members of the San Antonio delegation; the federal judges in San Antonio who use the Wood Courthouse; Mayor Ivy Taylor; and the City of San Antonio for their support in this effort." To see the exact appropriations language, please click here.
12.16.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that the Fiscal Year 2016 government funding bill includes more than $897 million worth of support for Mexico and Central America, provisions that he and Kay Granger (R-TX-12), chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, have fought for. The omnibus includes $750 million in funding to implement the United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America in support of the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle of Central America, which, if successfully implemented, will help reduce illegal immigration to the United States and bolster regional governance, prosperity, and security. “We continue to play defense on our goal line when it comes to the issue of illegal immigration,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I’ve repeatedly said that to stop illegal immigration here at home, we must provide strategic investment abroad. To that end, the omnibus appropriations bill includes a significant investment in Central America to assist with the fight against those elements that are causing thousands of children and families to flee their homes. As I reported earlier this month, in October and November we saw double the number of unaccompanied minors and family units arrive at our southern border from Central America than we did at the same time last year. This puts us on track to see more illegal crossings of Central Americans than we did in 2014, when there were a staggering 68,541 unaccompanied children and families apprehended at the border. This influx has caused the Department of Health and Human Services, the federal agency tasked with caring for the unaccompanied children from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, to request 6,400 temporary beds which costs will far exceed the standard $219 a child per day. “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee and a member representing our southern border, this is an issue of particular concern. Last summer I traveled with Kay Granger, Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, to Central America to see first-hand the situation facing these children and families and to discuss with the leaders of these countries ways in which the U.S. can provide support. I’d like to thank Chair Granger and Ranking member of the Appropriations Committee, Nita Lowey, for their efforts on this issue and for including this $750 million to support the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle of Central America, as well as including $100 million to assist Mexico with international narcotics control and law enforcement which is intended to support border security along their southern border with Guatemala and Belize. Between October 2014 and April 2015, Mexico deported more than 92,000 Central Americans. This will help us take the fight against illegal immigration to the front lines, instead of continuing to play defense here at our border. “Here at home, I’ve continually stated that if a migrant does make it into the United States, we must treat them humanely and we must treat these unaccompanied children as if they were our own. That is why I’ve supported increased transparency at our nation’s immigration detention facilities to ensure those apprehended are treated fairly and are provided appropriate nourishment and medical care. In addition, I’ve obtained 55 new federal immigration judges to help reduce the backlog of cases and reduce bottlenecks in dealing with the surge in illegal immigration. Both of these provisions were included in the omnibus package. “In addition to efforts to fight illegal immigration stemming from Central America, I’ve fought for increased funding and provisions to support economic development, educational opportunities, and law enforcement in Mexico and Central America, to include: • Access to a $265 million pool for a microenterprise and microfinance program to promote economic development in Mexico and Central America. • $39 million to Mexico under the Economic Support Fund designed to promote a civil and just society. • An expansion of and increase to US-Mexico academic exchanges at the high school, college, and post graduate level. • Encouraging educational and cultural exchange programs with Mexico and Central and South America to enhance cross cultural understanding. • Establishment of a working group between the United States and Mexico to help facilitate and ease commerce across the border. • Conducting a study on what standards or protocols are needed for passenger and freight high-speed rail between the United States and Mexico to increase tourism and commerce. • Not less than $1.5 million for International Military Education and Training with Mexico. • $100 million to Mexico for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement to promote safety and border security in Mexico. • $7 million in foreign military grants to Mexico.” To see the omnibus language regarding the $750 million for Central America, click here. To see the additional omnibus language affecting Mexico and Central America, click here. To see the United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America as referenced in the appropriations, click here. To see the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle of Central America as referenced in the appropriations, click here. To see the latest Family Unit and Unaccompanied Children apprehension numbers as reported by the U.S. Border Patrol, click here.
12.16.2015	Reps. Pete Olson (R-TX), Bob Latta (R-OH), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), and Henry Cuellar (D-TX), today introduced bipartisan legislation that would update how the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) addresses ozone requirements in the Clean Air Act. EPA recently issued a new standard requiring a reduction in the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ozone, from the current level of 75 parts per billion (PPB) down to 70 PPB. This bill is intended to be the first in a series of legislative efforts on ozone, with upcoming legislation to focus on how local air authorities make the leap from an existing standard to a new one. In this first step in the wake of EPA’s new standard, Olson and his colleagues introduced H.R. 4265, the Clean Air Implementation Act, which would require a brief pause while EPA studies the impacts of foreign pollution on non-attainment areas, review the current standard every eight years (to allow more time for implementation) instead of every five, and allow for limited consideration of feasibility when EPA moves to draft the next ozone rule. "As communities across America try to navigate an ever changing standard process, we must have better information on how foreign sources of pollution impact our air quality,” Rep. Pete Olson said. “Understanding how much ozone is under our control is a critical component of how states develop plans to improve air quality. Our bill provides a needed pause in implementing the current standard while we streamline the process with needed information.” “The EPA, when releasing new standards, must ensure that they are achievable, and do not cause significant harm to our economy,” said Rep. Bob Latta. “As we work to gain a full understanding of the impact of foreign pollution in areas of the country that go out of attainment, it is imperative we postpone the implementation of these standards to avoid unnecessary and burdensome costs on communities working towards compliance until further review is conducted.” “I represent several Arizona communities where energy production drives the local economy, so I want to ensure there is local input on the impact of these federal rules. We cannot allow these rules to be administered in a way that kills jobs and undermines local economies,” Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick said. "I’m pleased to cosponsor this bill with support from communities in Arizona as well as our state Department of Air Quality." “Businesses and economic growth provide opportunities for the families I represent,” Congressman Henry Cuellar said. “I know the negative impact that rapidly implementing the EPA’s new ozone standard could have on economic development in my district. We need to find a way to balance the need for environmental protection with the feasibility of implementing these standards in an economically viable way.” Highlights of Clean Air Implementation Act: o Timeline Revision - EPA shall update the Ambient Air Quality Standards at eight year intervals unless the Administrator finds that specific circumstances warrant a review earlier in the cycle. o Secondary Consideration of Feasibility – EPA can use as a factor in determining the range of levels for a new NAAQS feasibility when setting a new standard. o Foreign Transport – EPA in coordination with the National Academies of Sciences shall report to Congress within two years, the extent to which foreign sources of pollution impact achievement of NAAQS standards in the US. The 2015 standard will be paused until the study is complete.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for more than $275 million worth of transportation projects in Hidalgo County. Representative Cuellar represents the western portion of Hidalgo County. Congressman Cuellar shares Hidalgo County with Representatives Ruben Hinojosa and Filemon Vela. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached documents labeled Funding and Projects and Map provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Hidalgo County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank the Valley delegation and our U.S. senators for their great work on this bill. Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Hidalgo County road projects will include work on US 281 and US 283, both local roads used daily by Hidalgo County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of Hidalgo County has increased from 569,463 to approximately 831,073, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 46 percent. This has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Hidalgo County.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), who represents part of Bexar County, announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, about $208 million worth of Starr County transportation projects. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached documents labeled Funding and Projects and Map provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Starr County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Starr County road projects will include work on US 83 and FM 755, local roads used daily by residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of Starr County has increased from 53,597 to approximately 62,955, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 17.5 percent. This increase has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Starr County.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for $82,853,636 worth of Zapata County transportation projects. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached documents labeled Funding and Projects and Map provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Zapata County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Zapata County road projects will include work on US 83, a local road used daily by both Atascosa County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of Zapata County has increased from 12,182 to approximately 14,319, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 18 percent. This has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Zapata County.” The federal highway bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for $98,352,192 worth of Webb County transportation projects. A full list of these projects in Laredo proper as well as a map, and Webb County are attached. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Webb County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The road projects will include work on IH 35, US 59, and US 83, all local roads used daily by both Laredo and Webb County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of Webb County has increased from 193,117 to approximately 266,673, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 38 percent. This has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Webb County.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for $19,770,699 worth of transportation projects in the portion of La Salle County that he represents. Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23) represents the other portion of La Salle County. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached documents labeled Funding and Projects and Map provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for La Salle County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The La Salle County road projects will include work on SH 97 and IH 35, both local roads used daily by La Salle County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of La Salle County has increased from 5,866 to approximately 7,474, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 27.4 percent. This, along with the energy sector activities, has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to La Salle County.” The federal highway bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for $38,476,405 worth of McMullen County transportation projects. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached documents provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for McMullen County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The McMullen County road projects will include work on SH 72 and SH 16, local roads used daily by residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2010, the population of McMullen County has increased from 707 to approximately 805, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 13.9 percent. This increase, along with the energy sector activities, has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Starr County.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for $35,572,967 worth of transportation projects in Wilson County. Wilson County is also partially represented by another representative. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached document labeled Funding and Projects provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Wilson County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Wilson County road projects will include work on SL 181, FM 541, FM 536, FM 2772, FM 775 and US 181, all local roads used daily by both Wilson County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “Since 2000, the population of Wilson County has increased from 32,408 to approximately 46,502, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, a population increase of 43 percent. This, along with the energy sector activities, has led to a boom in traffic that slows down private vehicle traffic as well as the commercial traffic that drives the county’s economy. This is why the new federal highway authorization legislation is so vitally important to Wilson County.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, new money would be made available for Atascosa County transportation projects. A full list of these projects can be found in the attached document labeled Funding and Projects provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Atascosa County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Atascosa County road projects will include work on SH 97, SH 16, FM 140, US 281, and SH 173, all local roads used daily by both Atascosa County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. “According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the population of Atascosa County has increased from 38,628 in 2000 to approximately 47,774 today. This increase of 24 percent, along with expansion in the energy sector, has added new stress to the county’s roads in terms of traffic as well as increased wear and tear. In order to address traffic flows through the county, these road improvement projects need funding to be completed.” The federal highway bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway funding bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012.
12.11.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), who represents part of Bexar County, announced that under the newly passed and signed five-year federal highway authorization bill, almost $80 million worth of projects in the portion of the county that he represents would be funded. A full list of these projects in the northeast part of Bexar County can be found in the attached documents, provided by the Texas Department of Transportation. “I am pleased to announce these additional funds for Bexar County road projects,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Thanks to the federal highway bill, Texas is estimated to receive more than $18 billion over the next five years. That is $2 billion more than provided under current funding levels. The Bexar road projects will include work on Interstate Highway 410, State Loop 13, and Interstate Highway 10, all roads used daily by northeast Bexar County residents and travelers. These road improvement projects will help the commuting experience for local residents and enhance the flow of commercial traffic through the county. Since 2000, the population of Bexar County has increased more than 33 percent, from 1,392,931 to approximately 1,855,866, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. This increase has added new stress to the county’s roads in terms of traffic as well as increased wear and tear. In order to address traffic flows through the county, these road improvement projects need funding to be completed.” The federal highway authorization bill was passed last week by both the House and Senate with resounding majorities. The bipartisan legislation was the first long-term highway authorization bill to be passed by Congress since MAP-21 in 2012. For a full list of all projects in Bexar County, valued at nearly $933 million, click here. Congressman Cuellar shares Bexar County with four other representatives.
12.09.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement in response to the announcement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that they will begin the process of expanding their temporary capacity to house unaccompanied children. “As I have warned repeatedly, we must not take our eye off the ball on the issues of curbing the flow of undocumented crossings of unaccompanied minors and families from Central America at our southern border. In October and November we saw 10,588 undocumented unaccompanied minors apprehended at the border, along with 12,505 family units -- more than double the number we saw in the same two months last year (5,129 and 4,577, respectively). Generally, over the last few years, the number of apprehensions decreases after the summer. However, this year, there has been a steady uptick in illegal crossings, causing concern that this year may be worse than 2014, when we saw 68,541 apprehensions of unaccompanied children at the southern border. “The Department of Health and Human Services, the federal agency tasked with caring for these children, who are mostly from the Central American countries of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, before they are seen by an immigration judge, has announced that they have begun the process of requesting temporary shelters to house these children should this increasing trend continue. HHS is currently requesting an additional 6,400 temporary beds. The normal cost per day per child for a bed is $219; however, these temporary facilities will exceed that figure. According to HHS, of the children referred to the agency recently, a third have been from Honduras, a third from Guatemala, a third from El Salvador, and a small remainder from all other countries. The number of apprehended children referred to the agency has increased over the past several months. In July, 3,745 were referred, followed by 4,314 in August, 4,173 in September, 4,603 in October, and 5,555 in November. According to HHS, most years see a decrease in the number of referred children after August and September, but this year’s increases have led to the preparation of temporary shelters. “I have stated that we must provide assistance to our Central American friends who are leaving their homes. To that end, and in my capacity as a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I’ve requested an increase in funding, over Fiscal Year 2015 levels, to assist Central America in their fight against criminal gangs, drug traffickers and organized crime, and to increase their own border security and combat human smuggling and trafficking. I thank Kay Granger, chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, and Nita Lowey, ranking member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, for their assistance in seeking this increase in funding. “Here at home, I’ve called for increased transparency at our nation’s immigration detention facilities to ensure those apprehended are treated humanely and are provided appropriate nourishment and medical care. I have also requested 55 new federal immigration judges to reduce the backlog of cases and reduce bottlenecks in dealing with the surge in illegal immigration. All of which was included in the House of Representatives Appropriations bills and I’m calling to be included in the omnibus package.” To see the latest Unaccompanied Children Statistics as reported by CBP, click here. To see the latest Family Unit and Unaccompanied Children apprehension numbers as reported by the U.S. Border Patrol, click here.
12.05.2015	Congressional Advisory Renters with Storm Damage May Apply for Disaster Assistance Renters displaced from their homes or apartments by the October storms may be eligible for federal disaster assistance, which may include grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and low-interest disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). FEMA grants for eligible renters may include funds to cover the cost of renting another place to live. Renters may also be eligible for Other Needs Assistance (ONA). ONA grants help survivors with uninsured or underinsured expenses and serious needs caused by the disaster, including: • Child care • Heating fuels • Moving and storage expenses • Disaster-related funeral and burial expenses • Disaster-related dental and medical expenses, such as wheelchairs, canes and prescriptions • Repair or replacement of personal property lost or damaged in the storm, including furniture and appliances, as well as job-related tools and equipment required by the self-employed • Primary vehicles, approved second vehicles and modified vehicles damaged by the disaster SBA offers low-interest disaster loans to help renters repair or replace disaster-damaged personal property, including automobiles. Survivors may be eligible to borrow up to $40,000, depending on their losses. Texans in the following counties may register for disaster assistance for damage or losses sustained during the period Oct. 22 to Oct. 31: Bastrop, Brazoria, Caldwell, Comal, Galveston, Guadalupe, Hardin, Harris, Hays, Hidalgo, Liberty, Navarro, Travis, Willacy and Wilson. Survivors can apply online at DisasterAssistance.gov or by phone (voice, 711 or relay service) at 800-621-3362. TTY users should call 800-462-7585. The toll-free lines are open 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. seven days a week. All FEMA disaster assistance will be provided without discrimination on the grounds of race, color, sex (including sexual harassment), religion, national origin, age, disability, limited English proficiency, economic status, or retaliation. If you believe your civil rights are being violated, call 800-621-3362 or 800-462-7585(TTY/TDD). FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards. The SBA is the federal government’s primary source of money for the long-term rebuilding of disaster-damaged private property. SBA helps businesses of all sizes, private non-profit organizations, homeowners and renters fund repairs or rebuilding efforts and cover the cost of replacing lost or disaster-damaged personal property. These disaster loans cover losses not fully compensated by insurance or other recoveries and do not duplicate benefits of other agencies or organizations. For more information, applicants may contact SBA’s Disaster Assistance Customer Service Center by calling 800-659-2955, emailing disastercustomerservice@sba.gov, or visiting SBA’s website at www.sba.gov/disaster. Deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals may call 800-877-8339. Visit www.fema.gov/texas-disaster-mitigation for publications and reference material on rebuilding and repairing safer and stronger.
12.03.2015	Today, the House agreed to the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, H.R. 22, the bill that offers a five-year $305 billion reauthorization of federal-aid highway and transit programs. The House voted 359-65 to accept the legislation, paving the way for Senate passage and sending the bill to the President’s desk. The legislation will allocate an average of $3.67 billion per year for the next five years for Texas transportation projects. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has consistently advocated to secure transportation and infrastructure dollars for Texas’ 28th Congressional District and the Texas border region and was successful in including language that would make the important change of including stretches of road from border ports of entry in the national Primary Freight Network. “The current Primary Freight Network misses key portions of our nation’s interstate system with its cap of 27,000 miles,” Congressman Cuellar said. “However, this bill will increase the cap to 41,518 miles and absorb key stretches of road from border ports of entry, including Interstate Highway 35 from Laredo to San Antonio.” In addition, Congressman Cuellar, along with Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23), successfully advocated for language that would provide border states with the flexibility to reserve certain federal highway funds for qualified border infrastructure projects. “The border region has hundreds of billions of dollars in trade flowing in and out. Tens of thousands of trucks cross the border between Texas and Mexico every day. This puts a tremendous strain on our border transportation infrastructure. Under this bill, a border state will be able to set aside up to 5 percent of statewide surface transportation funds for transportation infrastructure projects along our nation’s borders. This is important as it will allow our border communities more certainty in planning vital infrastructure project.” Congressman Cuellar also worked with Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX-27) in designating as a National Highway System High-Priority Corridor Texas State Highway 44 from U.S. Route 59 at Freer, Texas, in the 28th Congressional District, to Texas State Highway 358 in Corpus Christi. This gives Highway 44 from Freer to Corpus Christi the same designation as Route 59, I-35, and Highway 83 coming out of Laredo. This designation provides for the potential of increased federal funding and preferential treatment in applying for project grants. “The border is a powerhouse for large-scale trade and we need more funding to keep up with infrastructure improvements and that is precisely what I have fought for in this bill,” Cuellar added. “I would like to thank Chairmen Inhofe and Shuster, Ranking Members Boxer and DeFazio, the members of their committees, and the members of the conference committee for their hard work.” Congressman Cuellar and Congressman McCaul (TX-10) also successfully advocated for language authorizing an intelligent freight transportation system that will connect land ports of entry with current federal-aid highways. “There is a need to balance security with commerce at the U.S.-Mexico border, and the nation needs improved transportation infrastructure connecting ports of entry to the federal highway system,” Congressman Cuellar said. “An intelligent freight transportation system will help overcome congestion while enhancing throughput.
12.03.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX-23), Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX-16) and Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX-10) praised the passage by the U.S. House and Senate of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, a five-year federal highway bill including language to give states more flexibility to invest in border infrastructure. The legislation generates an average of $3.67 billion per year for the next five years for Texas transportation projects. Introduced in the House by Cuellar, Hurd and McCaul earlier this year as stand-alone bill H.R. 3181, this language will create a Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) Reserve Fund, giving border states more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds. States like Texas can reserve up to 5 percent of statewide Surface Transportation Funds for qualified border infrastructure purposes, providing funding certainty and allowing stakeholders and border communities to advocate for border infrastructure. “The CBI Fund will undoubtedly benefit border communities across my district and the country by dedicating more money to ports of entry,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My hometown of Laredo is host to the nation’s largest inland port, which services over 14,000 daily commercial truck crossings and 1,500 daily rail crossings. The large volumes of traffic passing over the border across South Texas place a tremendous strain on our border transportation infrastructure making it imperative that the infrastructure around our nation’s ports and trade centers remain in peak condition to ensure our economy keeps moving forward. I would like to thank my colleagues who supported this provision and worked to get it included in the bill.” “As the top exporting state in the nation, Texas already transports more than $100 billion in goods to Mexico each year, supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Giving states like ours more flexibility to invest in infrastructure along the border has the potential to facilitate more international trade, boosting jobs and economic growth.” “International trade and commerce is not just important for many of the towns in the 23rd Congressional District of Texas – it’s a vital part of the economy,” said Hurd, who has more than 820 miles of international border in his district and was a member of the conference committee for the highway bill. “Providing states the flexibility to invest in the infrastructure that makes this type of commerce possible not only benefits the families who live along the border, but ultimately boosts trade for the entire state of Texas and the nation.” “Wait times at five of the busiest ports of entry along our southern border result in an economic loss of $166 million per minute,” added Congressman O’Rourke. “ The passage of this bipartisan bill means states like Texas can direct funds to repair and upgrade infrastructure at our ports of entry, resulting in reduced wait times and increased economic and job growth for communities like El Paso." “Our homeland security deserves our utmost attention, and that starts at our border,” said McCaul, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. “By ensuring Texas has the flexibility to invest these funds in border infrastructure, our nation will be safer while paving the way to better American access to global economic opportunities. The inclusion of this provision will also support critical jobs in my district, which exported $11.5 billion worth of goods and services in 2013. By providing this certainty in funding for infrastructure improvements, we will be able to address the problems currently being encountered at the border." The provision is receiving support from stakeholders on the border, who understand the importance of having secure and stable routes across the border. “Today’s passage of a long-term transportation bill proves that Congress can still accomplish big things and in a bipartisan way,” said Jesse Hereford, chairman of the Border Trade Alliance. “This legislation is critically important for our country’s border regions, which are struggling to ensure that their infrastructure keeps pace with today’s trade volumes. The Border Trade Alliance thanks Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Cuellar, Rep. Hurd, Rep. McCaul and Rep. O’Rourke for working together to give border states like Texas the flexibility to direct transportation funding to the border region to help alleviate bottlenecks and congestion and promote the safe and efficient movement of freight.” "Safe and efficient cross border trade is central for the economic growth of border communities such as El Paso. We see every day how much people and companies rely on our transportation infrastructure to transport goods and travel for work,” said Rolando Pablos, chief executive officer of the Borderplex Alliance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving economic prosperity in the El Paso, Ciudad Juarez and Southern New Mexico region. “We know current border crossings are not optimal and result in long wait times and the delayed movement of goods for businesses. We applaud Congress for including funding for the coordinated border infrastructure program in the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which will allow for improvements to our border transportation infrastructure and bolster economic activity and opportunities in this region.”
12.02.2015	Today, the House voted 359-64 to adopt the conference report on the Every Student Succeeds Act. This bill reauthorizes the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the primary source of federal aid to K-12 education, and the conference report, or compromise, between the House and the Senate represents a key step forward for our nation’s schoolchildren by replacing No Child Left Behind Act policies which have hampered the growth of our students. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following response: “I am pleased that the House took this necessary bipartisan action to improve the experience of our nation’s schoolchildren,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As the son of parents who understood the value of a good education, I pay special attention to the opportunities our schools can create and have fought to improve the educational experience for children in my district and across the country. The conference report adopted today upholds key school accountability provisions while lessening our reliance on standardized tests under the No Child Left Behind Act, which have been shown to be incomplete measures of student success. By eliminating what is known as Adequate Yearly Progress, the compromise instead replaces it with an accountability system that would allow individual states to best identify the needs of struggling schools. “Importantly, the compromise also includes provisions to help states improve low-performing schools, increase teacher quality and help direct additional funds to low-income and ESL students, support successful charter school programs and increase access to critical academic and extracurricular programs such as afterschool care and increased access to STEM education and arts education.”
11.19.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) made the following statement upon the news that Honduran police on Wednesday detained five Syrian young men believed to be headed to the United States. “Honduran police stopped and detained five Syrians trying to enter the Central American nation illegally,” Congressman Cuellar said. “According to a spokesman for the Honduran Police Investigation Unit, there is reason to believe these young men were going to try to illegally travel to the United States. While there is no evidence, as of today, that these men have ties to terrorism, this shows the important role our friends south of the border play in keeping our own nation safe. “This is why, as a member of Congress, and also as a member of the House Appropriations Homeland Security Subcommittee, I have been advocating for increased assistance to our Central American friends. Securing the border doesn’t start on the border – it begins with cooperation and teamwork with our allies to the south in Mexico and in Central America. I thank Jorge Alberto Milla Reyes, Honduras’ ambassador to the U.S., and his government, as well as the Mexican government, for their cooperation in keeping both of our nations safe. “The devastation and sheer terror that women, children and families are facing in war-ravaged Syria is a world humanitarian crisis that we cannot simply turn our backs to. However, I believe we do need a very tough screening process for any Syrian refugee who wants to come to the United States and that is why today I voted in favor of the American SAFE Act. This bill requires that, in addition to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) screening, the FBI ensure that each individual receives a background investigation before admission to the U.S.” In addition to the news of the Honduran detentions, DHS also confirmed that it had detained eight Syrians – two men, two women, and four children – who had presented themselves at a port of entry in Laredo on Tuesday. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
11.12.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar and representatives from the City of Laredo today inaugurated a brand new, state-of-the-art Bi-National Federal Inspection Services (FIS) facility that will serve as a Mexican Customs pre-clearance facility for air cargo in Laredo, Texas, on Thursday, November 12 at the Laredo International Airport. The FIS facility currently houses both U.S. and Mexican Customs. Congressman Cuellar worked with the governments of Mexico and the United States to establish this operation at the Laredo International Airport, which allows cargo to be pre-inspected by Mexican customs officers under the Servicio de Administración Tributaria (SAT) at the Laredo International Airport and arrive in Mexico as pre-inspected cargo. Cuellar also worked with the City of Laredo, which invested $3.3 million, to construct the facility. On October 15 of this year, U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Mexico’s Finance Minister Luis Videgaray signed the Bi-National Agreement in Mexico City. DHS worked in close coordination with the Mexican Ministry of Finance and Public Credit to develop the Cargo Pre-Inspection Program, which will formally begin operations at the Laredo International Airport. No other airport outside of Mexico is approved by the Mexican government to pre-inspect Mexico-bound air cargo, making Laredo, which already holds the title of the nation’s largest inland port, the only airport in the United States to have a Mexican customs pre-clearance facility. “The Laredo International Airport is ranked in the top 500 all-cargo airports in the country and is also the only airport on our southern border with a U.S. customs availability 24/7/365,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Pre-clearance facilities, such as this one in Laredo, benefit both countries by saving time and costs to the importer, while also increasing the competitiveness of both countries’ economies. These pre-inspected operations are designed to expedite the delivery of air-cargo to certified Mexican importers in the automotive, auto parts, electronic, electrical and aerospace industries. I thank the City of Laredo and representatives from both the United States and Mexico for working with me to accomplish this historic operation in Laredo,” Cuellar added. “Mexican Customs at the Laredo International Airport will expand and solidify the City of Laredo, Texas as the premier commercial port on the southern border,” said City of Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. “The presence of Mexican Customs Pre-Inspection at the Laredo International Airport will resonate throughout Mexico’s Industrial sectors,” said Jose L. Flores, Manager, Laredo International Airport.
11.12.2015	El congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, y representantes de la Ciudad de Laredo, hoy inauguraron la nueva Instalación Federal Binacional para Servicios de Pre-inspección en el aeropuerto internacional de Laredo. La instalación de la aduana mexicana en Laredo, Texas, para la pre-inspección de mercancías americanas con destino a México, es la primera aduana mexicana que opera fuera de la República Mexicana. La instalación ya ocupa ambas aduanas de Estados Unidos y México. El congresista federal de Texas, Henry Cuéllar, trabajó con los gobiernos de ambos países para establecer esta operación en el aeropuerto internacional de Laredo, donde oficiales de la aduana mexicana Servicio de Administración Tributaria (SAT) inspeccionarán el cargo aéreo que recibe Laredo de todo Estados Unidos con destino a ciertas lugares en México como cargo pre-inspeccionado. El congresista Cuellar también trabajó con la Ciudad de Laredo, quien aportó $3,3 millones de dólares para construir la instalación. El 15 de octubre de este año, el Secretario de Seguridad Nacional de Estados Unidos, (DHS, por sus siglas en inglés), Jeh Johnson, y el Secretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público de México Luis Videgaray, firmaron el Acuerdo Binacional en la Ciudad de México. DHS trabajó con la Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público para desarrollar la Operación de Pre-Inspección para Cargo Aéreo que ahora está operando de manera formal en esta ciudad. Laredo, Texas, se ubica en la frontera entre Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, y Texas, EE.UU., y es el puerto interior más grande de Estados Unidos. “El aeropuerto internacional de Laredo está clasificado entre los 500 mejores y más grandes aeropuertos de cargo en los Estados Unidos. El aeropuerto de Laredo también es el único en todo el país que tiene disponibilidad de aduana las 24 horas del día, siete días a la semana, 365 días al año,” dijo el congresista Cuéllar. “Las instalaciones de pre-inspección, como la de Laredo, benefician a ambos países porque ahorran tiempo y dinero para el importador, mientras que también mejora la competitividad de ambos países. Estas operaciones de pre-inspección están designadas para acelerar la entrega de cargo aéreo a importadores mexicanos certificados en las industrias de automóviles, partes de autos, electro-domésticos y aeroespacial. Agradezco la ayuda de la Ciudad de Laredo y los representantes de Estados Unidos y México por trabajar conmigo para realizar esta operación en Laredo,” dijo Cuéllar.
11.09.2015	Today, Congressman Cuellar witnessed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the City of Laredo and COMCE (Consejo Mexicano de Comercio Exterior) to work together to process, promote and expedite trade through the Port of Laredo. This historic agreement between the City of Laredo and COMCE will solidify Laredo’s position as the nation’s number one inland port and top trade destination for all trade between the United States and Mexico. Congressman Cuellar and the City of Laredo have worked diligently over the past year to secure this agreement with the Mexican trade organization, which is the oldest and most-respected Mexican business association related to foreign trade. “More than $100 billion in Texas goods are exported to Mexico each year, which supports hundreds of thousands of good jobs for Texans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Last year, over two million cargo trucks moved northbound from Mexico to Laredo. Today’s memorandum of understanding between the City of Laredo and COMCE is an important step in securing Laredo place as North America’s leader in international trade. I thank Mayor Saenz and the City for their great work in this process.” The corporations that participate in COMCE represent over one fourth of all the exports of Mexican companies to the United States. COMCE Noreste, also part of COMCE, promotes the foreign trade of all those corporations from northeast Mexico, mainly the states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo León, Coahuila, Durango and Zacatecas. The corporations that are part of COMCE Noreste are responsible for at least $40 billion in trade in Mexican exports. The organization provides several services to its membership including advice on: laws and regulations on foreign trade; customs procedures; free trade agreements; import and export requirement information; export promotion government programs; custom laws. COMCE Noreste developed CASCEM (Cadena Segura del Comercio Exterior Mexicano), the most important private sector program in Mexico promoting compliance with all the import/export secure requirements of the Mexican and U.S. governments. CAINTRA (Cámara de la Industria de la Transformación de Nuevo León), which recently signed an agreement COMCE Noreste to develop joint programs that achieve the objectives and goals of and COMCE Noreste, participated as a witness to the historic signing in Laredo. CAINTRA is the most respected industry chamber in northern Mexico and one of the two most important industry chambers in the whole Mexico. This chamber represents some of the most important corporations in Mexico. CAINTRA represents over three thousand Mexican corporations from the energy, telecom, cement, glass, beer, food, meat, chemical, software, and environmental industries. CAINTRA has different commissions such as: environmental; transportation; energy; tax; innovation and competitiveness; and young entrepreneurship.
11.09.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosted a meeting with participants from the Texas Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration, the City of Laredo, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Mexican Customs officials, the Federal Rail Administration, Kansas City Southern Railway Company and Union Pacific Railroad to continue ongoing dialogue and find a solution to rail blockage issues plaguing Laredo. Congressman Cuellar has been deeply involved in this issue since 2013, when he initiated an all-parties meeting and began conversation surrounding local rail blockage. In the past year, he successfully included language in the FY2015 House Appropriations bill that requires the Government Accountability Office to assess best practices to decrease rail congestion and reduce blockage of street crossings in Laredo. Items discussed today where the possibility of pre-clearing rail cargo, clearing rail staff to operate on both sides of the border, investing in infrastructure and city ordinances for alleviating traffic congestions during certain hours. “Where most U.S. ports of entry have, on average, one incoming train per day, Laredo has 11 incoming and another 11 outgoing trains. We met with city, state and federal agencies today to make sure Laredo’s rail cargo continues to grow while also looking for solutions to ease traffic congestion within the city that are sometimes caused by rail operations. I thank all the agencies for working together on this effort.”
11.06.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) has released the following statement on President Obama's decision today to reject the application for the completion of the Keystone XL oil pipeline after years of consideration: "The Keystone XL is a great opportunity to create thousands of good jobs in a vastly growing energy sector. I greatly disagree with President Obama’s decision to reject the Keystone XL today. The House has voted several times to allow for construction of the pipeline and each time I have voted in support. According to the Department of Energy, the Keystone XL pipeline would move up to 830,000 barrels of oil from western Canada and create tens of thousands of American jobs in many U.S. refineries, the majority of which are in Texas, where families and communities can grow and develop from added jobs. The pipeline would also reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil. The President's rejection today opens the door for other competing countries to come in and reap the benefits of North American oil." ###
11.03.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement in response to the continued surge of children and families coming across the U.S.-Mexico border: “Over the past year, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has reported a 42 percent decrease in apprehensions of unaccompanied children and families along the border. According to CBP, the total number of apprehensions of unaccompanied children for fiscal year 2015 was 39,970, compared with 68,541 in fiscal year 2014. In 2015, apprehensions of parents with children dropped from to 39,838 from 68,445 in 2014. “Although the CBP report shows a decrease in apprehensions from fiscal year 2014, we still need to focus our attention and resources to the border. The problem is not solved and we need to keep monitoring. The actual number of children apprehended at the border is not just 39,970. Instead, those 39,970 children are supplemented by the 22,132 children apprehended with a family member. This makes for total of 62,102 children apprehended (unaccompanied children and children with a family member) between October 1, 2014 and September 30, 2015.” “The flow of children and families across the border is an ongoing occurrence. The actual numbers are quite a bit different and deserve greater scrutiny. “We need to take action to curb this continued flow of undocumented crossings across our southern border. The real question is: How many of those who do not have a legal basis to be in the United States have been deported?” To see the latest apprehension numbers as reported by CBP, please click here. To see a further breakdown of numbers from CBP regarding children detained along the southwest border, please click here.
10.29.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced the opening of a health insurance enrollment assistance center in McAllen that will help individuals and families review their health coverage options, find out whether they qualify for financial assistance and sign up or re-enroll in a plan that meets their needs. The center will offer in-person enrollment assistance from now through the end of January. Open enrollment to sign up for health coverage at HealthCare.gov begins November 1 and coverage that will begin January 1, 2016 must be secured by December 15. “I think it is great that the people of McAllen will have access to this center and the advice of trained counselors on their health care options,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It can be intimidating to choose a health care plan, but with the help of this enrollment assistance center, they can make it a little bit easier.” The McAllen enrollment assistance center is located at 3400 N. McColl Rd., Suite #1, 2nd floor, McAllen, TX 78501. The center may be reached by phone at 956-340-4694 and is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., with walk-ins accepted from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Evening hours are by appointment only. Weekend hours are from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. and are by appointment only.
10.29.2015	Today Congressman Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement on the election of Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI-1): “I congratulate Congressman Ryan on his election as speaker of the United States House of Representatives,” Congressman Cuellar said. “What I have always wanted to see in a speaker is someone who can work across the aisle and who can bring about some level of constructive harmony within and between the parties. Based on my experience with Speaker Ryan and his leadership of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, I know he has the temperament and the leadership style to bridge the gaps in Congress. “I thank outgoing Speaker John Boehner (R-OH-8) for his nearly five years of service as speaker and his 24 years as a member of Congress. Although we sit on opposite sides of the aisle, I have always respected his work ethic and his commitment to the immense job he had undertaken. “I wish all the best to Mr. Boehner as he resigns his seat in Congress and to Speaker Ryan in his new job. As Speaker Ryan said to the House today, ‘The House is broken.’ Americans’ satisfaction with Congress is at an all-time low, and I hope under his leadership, we can bring together both parties to fix it. As Speaker Ryan said this morning, now is the time for members to step up and make a change.”
10.29.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) condemned the continued long wait times for veterans seeking health care at the South Texas Veterans Health Care System in San Antonio. More than a year after news first broke of deaths caused by long waits for care at the Phoenix, Arizona, Veterans Health Administration facilities, veterans in the San Antonio region are still waiting unreasonably long times to receive the care they deserve for their service. According to a letter sent to Secretary of Veterans Affairs by Texas Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn on Thursday, data shows that as of October 1, more than one-fifth of all appointments scheduled at the South Texas Veterans Health Care System (STVHCS) exceeded a wait time of 30 days, an unacceptable situation. Across his career, Congressman Cuellar has fought to honor veterans and to preserve their rights. Over the summer, he voted to make it easier to fire bad actors from the Department of Veterans Affairs and helped rename and dedicate a post office in Floresville, Texas, to honor veterans. He has previously supported other means to support our veterans, including by finding ways in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to fund some of the most pressing infrastructure needs of the military and VA and by providing payments to disabled veterans and a tax credit to businesses that hire unemployed veterans, and by voting to allow veterans to visit private facilities closer to home. “I do not like to see our veterans continue to have to wait for the care they deserve as former service members,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It has been more than a year since the VA scandal first broke and yet we are still having these problems. Why is that? Something has gone wrong, and we need to fix it. I support Sens. Cruz and Cornyn’s effort to improve wait times for veterans and look forward to reading Secretary McDonald’s response.” Sens. Cruz and Cornyn have asked for a long list of information to better get at the problems causing delays for veterans and have asked for a response from Secretary McDonald by November 30. The letter can be found here.
10.27.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement on the budget agreement reached between the White House and Congressional leaders, averting until 2017 another debt limit fight and setting funding levels for the next two years: “Last night a federal budget deal was reached between U.S. House and Senate leaders as well as the Obama administration. I am encouraged by this deal, but will be reviewing it carefully. “If this deal is agreed to by Congress, it will pave the way for a smooth start to beginning of the next speaker’s administration by doing away with harmful across-the-board sequester cuts and providing budget certainty for the next two years. “Under the deal, the current limits on total spending would be increased by $50 billion in FY 2016 and by $30 billion in 2017, along with $32 billion in additional Overseas Contingency Operations funding over the two-year period. Offsets will be implemented by savings in other parts of the budget.” “Importantly, included in the budget are fixes to the Social Security disability insurance trust fund and Medicare Part B premiums. The agreement prevents a 20 percent across-the-board cut in benefits for 11 million Social Security disability insurance beneficiaries which was to take effect next year, as well as a 52 percent premium hike for Medicare Part B enrollees. This is similar to legislation I co-sponsored earlier this month to avoid these premium hikes by holding premiums to 2015 levels. “I am glad that both Republicans and Democrats are working together as we reach a number of fiscal cliffs. By averting them, the United States Congress will be doing its job of helping the American people and not jeopardizing our country’s financial future.”
10.26.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement in response to recent news that apprehensions of unaccompanied children and families along the border have decreased by 42 percent in the last year: “While I am certainly happy to see that the number of unaccompanied children and families from Central America has decreased by 42 percent over the past year, we need to keep a couple of things in mind. “First, there has been a recent spike in the number of immigrant children and families caught crossing over illegally. In September, almost 10,000 were detained, an unseasonably high number. “Second, the latest U.S. Border Patrol data shows that while the number of apprehensions of unaccompanied children and families along the border has fallen, 39,970 unaccompanied children were still apprehended over the last year, and 39,838 parents with children were still detained. “New responses have been made to stem the flow of immigrants crossing over illegally. While positive changes are being made overall, we need to figure out how to further depress these numbers. “Some action has been taken. According to the Migration Policy Institute’s U.S. Immigration Policy Program, immigrants may be responding to new checkpoints along busy routes near Mexico’s southern border. Mexican authorities have also implemented measures to keep people from riding on top of northbound freight trains while at the same time increasing deportations. On the U.S. side, the government is undertaking a $1.2 million international media campaign to caution Central Americans against taking the risky journey through Mexico to the United States. “I believe in the right of migrants to enter our country, but I believe they must do so legally. I will continue to work toward this to further decrease the number of unaccompanied children and families entering the U.S. illegally.” To see the latest apprehension numbers from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, please click here.
10.23.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued an alert for U.S. citizens caught in the path of Category 5 Hurricane Patricia bearing down on the west coast of Mexico. The storm, classified as the strongest ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere, is expected to make landfall on the coast of the state of Jalisco later today. Mexican authorities have declared a state of emergency and have warned residents to prepare for the storm. In addition, the Mexican government has activated all of its preparation and response protocols in preparation for the storm. The United States federal government is closely monitoring the strength and trajectory of the storm. Late this afternoon the Department of State issued a recommendation to U.S. citizens in the affected area to “make preparations immediately to protect life and property, [strongly encouraging] U.S. citizens to take shelter as advised by Mexican authorities at any time they feel in danger.” Hurricane Patricia is currently being classified by the U.S. National Hurricane Center as the strongest hurricane ever in the Western Hemisphere (@NWSNHC), with sustained winds of as high as 200 mph. For purposes of comparison, Hurricane Katrina in 2005 registered sustained wind speeds at its most powerful of around 175 mph. “I strongly encourage anyone in the path of the storm to evacuate or to take shelter,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The U.S. National Hurricane Center has identified this storm as the strongest ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere. My office will be monitoring the storm closely, and I will be having conversations with government officials in the U.S. and Mexico to ensure the best response possible.” Even though it is not in the direct path of the storm, the 28th Congressional District and other parts of Texas will also feel the effects of the storm, with Central and South Texas expected to receive up to 20 inches of rain over the next 24 hours. Congressman Cuellar encourages residents of his district or anyone else who could feel the effects of the storm to turn to local authorities and the National Weather Service (www.weather.gov) for information. The National Weather Service may be followed on Twitter at @NWS. The U.S. Consulate in Guadalajara, Mexico, is posting updates at http://guadalajara.usconsulate.gov/. The consulate's Twitter handle is @USCGGuadalajara. Congressman Cuellar's office will be posting updates on the storm and suggested response plans throughout the weekend. Follow Congressman Cuellar on Twitter @repcuellar. Alternatively, you can follow him on Facebook at Facebook.com/repcuellar.
10.21.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) signed on as a co-sponsor of Congresswoman Dina Titus’ (D-NV-1) H.R. 3696, the Medicare Premium Fairness Act of 2015. The legislation will help prevent an increase in Medicare premiums. Next year nearly 8 million Medicare enrollees are faced with a much as a 52 percent premium hike, the largest in the program’s history. A premium raise of this magnitude would harm seniors and drain state budgets as they had to help pay larger and larger medical bills. “When I heard about this next looming crisis I took the immediate step of cosponsoring H.R. 3696,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This legislation will hold 2016 premiums at the same level seniors are paying in 2015, avoiding this 52 percent premium hike. Many seniors and those with disabilities rely on Medicare to improve their quality of life and I will continue to stand-up for these important benefits.” The text of the bill may be viewed here.
10.20.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) attended and made remarks at the announcement of a $975,000 grant awarded to the Webb County 406th District Court by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). The grant will be paid out over three years and will help the court continue and expand its Drug Court Program, which allows it to offer treatment to those who come through the system and are dependent on alcohol but not currently receiving treatment. “It is great to see our courts receive this money,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Alcohol dependency is a terrible condition that hurts people and families across the region. By tackling this problem as a mental health issue and providing the proper substance abuse treatment, we can save taxpayer dollars and help prevent much of the harm done across the region by alcohol. “I would like to thank Judge Hale and his staff for their work on the Drug Court Program and their commitment to helping people dependent on alcohol who end up in the courts. I would also like to thank Jesse Hernandez of La Familia Consulting and Counseling Services. For decades Mr. Hernandez has been helping people with alcohol dependency issues, and he will continue this work by serving as program evaluator under the new grant, preparing its performance assessment and ensuring the program is a success. Through a partnership with PILLAR, a nonprofit that provides mental health care and substance abuse treatment services, the court’s drug program will expand to include both individualized and group treatment strategies that help people change unhealthy behavior by focusing on building solutions to reach desired goals and by giving participants the tools to deal with the stress of their affliction. These funds will also save taxpayer dollars because treatment is much less expensive than its alternatives, such as incarcerating those addicted. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the average cost for one full year of methadone maintenance treatment is approximately $4,700 per patient, whereas one full year of imprisonment costs approximately $24,000 per person. In addition to Congressman Cuellar, the event was attended by Judge Oscar J. Hale Jr. of the 406th District Court, Judge Becky Palomo of the 341st Judicial District Court, who works closely with Judge Hale on the Drug Court Program, and Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. Just last week, Congressman Cuellar attended a grant announcement at the Webb County Court at Law II for a similar program to tackle DWI recidivism. Together, the grants total more than $1.9 million over three years and will help treat the problems caused by alcohol dependence in Webb County.
10.19.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and the city of Laredo welcomed Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL-25) for a tour of the World Trade Bridge as well as the Laredo airport and other parts of the city. Congressman Cuellar invited Congressman Diaz-Balart to Laredo to see and learn about the World Trade Bridge in his capacity as chair of the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD). Congressman Cuellar is also a member of the subcommittee. With Congressman Diaz-Balart’s support, Congressman Cuellar was also able to include language in this fiscal year’s THUD appropriations bill to encourage improvements to the Laredo airport’s air traffic control tower. “It was wonderful to show Congressman Diaz-Balart around my hometown of Laredo,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I particularly enjoyed showing him the World Trade Bridge and all the commerce it supports as well as the local airport tower that he helped me include in the THUD appropriations bill. It is great for people to see the effect trade has had on Laredo as well as the infrastructure we have to offer.” Laredo is home to the busiest inland port in the country. Forty percent of the land commerce traffic between the U.S. and Mexico passes through the port of Laredo, and the World Trade Bridge is the busiest bridge between the two countries with 12,000 trucks passing over it daily. In addition to their visit to the World Trade Bridge and the airport, Congressmen Cuellar and Diaz-Balart met with city officials at City Hall to discuss appropriations language Congressman Cuellar, in working with Chairman Diaz-Balart, was able to successfully include in the THUD appropriations bill, including: • designating land ports of entry as projects to which transportation infrastructure project funds can be appropriated, • encouraging the U.S. Department of Transportation to partner with Hispanic serving institutions and historically black colleges and universities for sharing research and information regarding minority-owned businesses and • encouraging the authorization committee to consider expanding the freight network system and to identify a freight network that connects to high-volume land ports of entry.
10.19.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) attended the grand opening of a new 14,000-square-foot facility for Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN), a Laredo social services organization that helps those in need, including by treating those with drug problems. The new facility will consolidate under one roof the organization’s employees, who have until now been spread out over several buildings. Congressman Cuellar was a founding board member of the organization in 1982. The event was attended by Congressman Cuellar, who made remarks, along with Isela Dabdoub, president and CEO of SCAN, and Luis E. Flores, executive vice president of SCAN. Dr. Susana Rivera, program director for SCAN, emceed the event. “I have been invested in the success of SCAN from Day One,” said Congressman Cuellar. “SCAN helps those in need in our community and aids them in leading happy and productive lives. Their staff has done this selfless work day in and day out for the past 33 years, so I am thrilled to see them benefit from a new facility that will allow for greater collaboration and a stronger organization.” Dabdoub thanked Congressman Cuellar for his support and underscored the importance of the new building. “Today SCAN celebrates the grand opening of our 14,000-square-foot office building, and we are very thankful to our board of directors, staff, volunteers and life-long supporters like Congressman Cuellar, a founding board member,” said Dabdoub. With an annual budget of more than $8 million, SCAN has more than 30 programs providing services in 14 different counties across South Texas. The organization was formed in 1982 as Stop Child Abuse and Neglect in Laredo, Texas.
10.19.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) addressed his transportation priorities in the just-released draft of the long-term Surface Transportation Reauthorization & Reform Act of 2015. The bill offers a long-term extension of highway and transit funding authority through the Highway Trust Fund. The fund needs to be reauthorized by Congress by October 29. The bill makes the important change of extending freight corridors to key ports of entry along the border, including Laredo. Congressman Cuellar has consistently advocated to secure transportation and infrastructure dollars for Laredo and the Texas border region. Currently, the national highway freight network misses key ports of entry, including Laredo, with its cap of 27,000 miles. However, this bill will increase the cap to 41,000 miles and absorb the stretch of Interstate Highway 35 between the Laredo port of entry and San Antonio, along with other key stretches of road across the country. “I thank Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA-9) of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee for his leadership and for including these provisions in the highway bill,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I also thank Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR-4). I look forward to working with them both to improve this important bill. “I appreciate Chairman Shuster’s commitment to understanding the transportation issues that affect my district. Last year he visited Texas and traveled with me down I-35 to see what an oversight it was to leave it out of the freight network. Forty percent of all land traffic between the U.S. and Mexico passes through Laredo and ends up on I-35. Laredo is home to the nation’s largest inland port, which services over 12,000 daily commercial truck crossings and 1,500 daily rail crossings. Nearly enough trucks cross the border at Laredo every year to wrap around the earth twice.” The bill also includes a new Surface Transportation Block Grant Program which allows border infrastructure projects to compete for grants nationwide. While it’s good to see border infrastructure included in this grant program, it falls short of the bill Congressman Cuellar introduced earlier this year with Representatives Hurd and McCaul, which would allow states to set aside funds specifically for border infrastructure projects. This program would provide needed certainty for improvements along the border, including at the Laredo port of entry. The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee is expected to take up the highway bill Thursday.
10.09.2015	Today Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Joe Barton (R-TX-6) commended their colleagues on the bipartisan House floor vote to end the ban on crude oil exports. Cuellar and Barton introduced this legislation in February of this year. The bill passed 261-159, with 26 Democrats voting in favor. The United States is now one of the world’s leading energy producers, but our economy is hampered by an outdated energy policy of the 1970s. “The House’s vote today to overturn the crude oil export ban is a strong step toward a more prosperous U.S. energy sector,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I come from one of the most active oil-producing regions of the country. With the Eagle Ford Shale in my district and the Permian Basin nearby, I recognize the great potential for our domestic oil industry, and I also understand the way in which it is being suppressed by this outdated export ban. “Lifting the ban will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, increase GDP by $134 billion and raise government revenues by $29 billion. The ban harms national security by preventing the U.S. from fully utilizing all the tools in our arsenal, while at the same time allowing Russia and Iran to claim an outsize market share among our allies.” Rep. Barton stated, “This is a major victory for the American people. Lifting the ban on crude exports will put Americans to work, enhance our national security, and lower gas prices. Over the past year we have bridged many divides to get to this point. I would like to thank Henry Cuellar for his leadership and the many outside groups that made this issue one of national importance. ” H.R. 702 received support from a vast array of outside groups. Notably, this bill was endorsed by: the US Chamber of Commerce, Americans for Tax Reform, Producers for American Crude Exports, American Maritime Officers Service, and the Maritime Institute for Research and Industrial Development. This rare coalition that includes: industry, labor, producers and consumers, was achieved through the leadership of Reps. Cuellar and Barton. “In Texas, we have seen our economy grow by leaps and bounds due in large part to the boom in energy production. Lifting the ban on exports will allow our State’s economy to continue this growth pattern and benefit all Texans,” added Barton. Reps. Cuellar and Barton applaud the House for voting to end the ban and urge the Senate to take up this measure. With strong support, as seen in the House today, the president should see the need to act and stop playing politics with American jobs.
10.08.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released a compilation of the latest statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that show a lower murder rate in cities along the Texas-Mexico border than in other major cities across the nation and the State of Texas. The numbers are from 2014. The FBI crime rates also show that the number of robberies, assaults, and rapes are significantly lower in border cities than the major metropolitan cities in Texas. “Many people, both in the political arena and out, mischaracterize the southern border region as very unsafe,” Congressman Cuellar said. “But today’s numbers, for yet another year, paint a very different picture. These statistics clearly show that some of the safest cities in the United States are on the U.S.-Mexico border. The murder rate is actually higher in Washington, D.C. where I work than in McAllen, El Paso or Brownsville, all along the Texas border with Mexico. These numbers should cause people to rethink some of the things they may have heard about the region. Misinformation like that hurts our local economy and makes it difficult to attract skilled workers and encourage investment.” Some of the key takeaways from the latest FBI crime statistics include: · The murder rates in Washington, DC, Dallas, and Houston are more than twice the murder rates in McAllen, Brownsville and El Paso, respectively · In 2014, there were 242 murders in Houston and 116 in Dallas, compared to 14 murders in Laredo, six in McAllen and five in Brownsville. · In 2014, there were 10,186 robberies in Houston and 4,202 robberies in Dallas, compared to 415 in El Paso, 196 in Laredo, 138 in Brownsville and 68 in McAllen. Attached to this release are the following seven charts: 2014 TX Cities Total Robberies, 2014 TX Cities Total Aggravated Assaults, 2014 TX Cities Total Rapes, 2014 Murder Rates, 2014 TX Cities Total Murders and 2014 FBI Releases 2014 Crime Statistics. To access the latest FBI crime statistics, visit this link: https://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2014/crime-in-the-u.s.-2014
10.08.2015	El día de hoy el congresista Henry Cuéllar por el distrito 28 de Texas publicó una recopilación de las últimas estadísticas de la Oficina Federal de Investigación (FBI por sus siglas en inglés) que muestran que hay una tasa de homicidios más baja en las ciudades ubicadas en la frontera de México-Estados Unidos, que en otras de las grandes ciudades de toda la nación y el estado de Texas. Las cifras son del 2014/ Las tasas de criminalidad del FBI también muestran que el número de robos, asaltos y violaciones son significativamente más bajas en las ciudades fronterizas que en las principales ciudades metropolitanas de Texas. "Muchas personas, tanto dentro y fuera de la política, caracterizan la región fronteriza de forma errónea como muy insegura", dijo el congresista Cuéllar. "Pero los números de hoy muestran de nuevo una realidad muy diferente. Estas estadísticas muestran claramente que algunas de las ciudades más seguras de los Estados Unidos se encuentran en la frontera entre Estados Unidos y México. La tasa de asesinatos es en realidad mayor en Washington, D.C., la ciudad donde yo trabajo, que en McAllen, El Paso o Brownsville, y a lo largo de la frontera de Texas con México. Estas estadísticas deberían hacer que la gente reconsidere lo que ha oído hablar de la región. La información errónea de que la frontera es insegura le hace daño a nuestra economía local y hace que sea difícil atraer a trabajadores calificados y la promoción de inversión". Algunos de los puntos clave de las últimas estadísticas del FBI sobre la delincuencia incluyen: • Las tasas de homicidios en Washington, D.C., Dallas y Houston son más del doble de las tasas de homicidios en McAllen, Brownsville y El Paso, respectivamente • En 2014, hubo 242 asesinatos en Houston y 116 en Dallas, en comparación con 14 asesinatos en Laredo, seis en McAllen y dos en Brownsville • En 2014, hubo 10,186 robos en Houston y 4,202 robos en Dallas, en comparación con 415 en El Paso, 196 en Laredo, 138 en Brownsville y 68 en McAllen Adjunto a este comunicado los siguientes siete documentos: 2014 TX Ciudades totales Robos, 2014 TX Ciudades total agravado asaltos, 2014 TX Ciudades totales violaciones, 2014 Asesinato Precios, 2014 TX Ciudades Total de asesinatos y 2014 FBI Lanzamientos 2014 Estadísticas delictivas.
10.05.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement on the finalization of the Trans-Pacific Partnership this morning in Atlanta: “The Trans-Pacific Partnership will lead to more jobs and an increase in opportunity for the agricultural products and manufactured goods made in this country and in my district. Over the summer, I was a strong supporter of Trade Promotion Authority, which will give the president the authority to present the agreement to Congress for a simple up-or-down vote. As the representative for the largest inland port in the country, I have seen the positive effects that free trade can have on my district. I am happy to hear that a final agreement has now been reached, and I look forward to reviewing it closely in the coming days.”
10.02.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) held a binational energy roundtable at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) with top experts from the energy industry in both the United States and Mexico. The first event of its kind in South Texas, the discussion brought together public and private sector officials from both the United States and Mexico in order to strengthen binational cooperation and work together to develop a more advanced energy infrastructure and workforce on the border In addition to the roundtable discussion, Congressman Cuellar also served as an honorary witness to the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) between TAMIU, the Universidad Autónoma Nacional de México, the Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila, the Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, the Universidad de Monterrey, the Universidad Autónoma de Tamaulipas and the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey for exchange programs for academic material, students and faculty. The MOU reaffirms the signatories’ commitment to collaborative educational programs between the two countries and recognizes the value of scientific and educational exchange for promoting the research and teaching activities of the five respective institutions. This agreement between the universities will spark innovation for the international oil and gas industry through collaboration on multiple levels. “This is a historic event,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The United States and Mexico are currently experiencing great technological breakthroughs in the energy industry, and this is the first time we’ve ever had so many experts in the industry meet to discuss the sector’s future outlook. Laredo is at the forefront of an energy corridor. Recent innovations on both sides of the border have the potential to add thousands of good-paying jobs to rebuild our communities and provide more security to our families. “Mexico’s’ recent energy reform allows for great collaboration and investment from U.S. energy companies in order to develop better ways of providing energy to the world. Today’s discussion and the signing of the MOU between TAMIU and Mexican higher education institutions will allow young people from both countries to share ideas. This is one of the surest ways to weaken cultural barriers and invest in our future workforce.” “We are honored to host this historic meeting of minds and shared futures,” said Dr. Ray Keck, president of TAMIU. “TAMIU, with its academic expertise, Binational Center and research prowess, is ideally poised as an international conduit to help channel strategies focused on strengthening binational cooperation. We are also deeply appreciative of Congressman Cuellar’s visionary leadership on this and also thankful to him for his commitment to expanding our academic linkages with our Mexican university counterparts.”
10.02.2015	Hoy, el congresista demócrata Henry Cuéllar por el distrito 28 de Texas presentó una mesa redonda con representantes expertos del sector de energía en México y los Estados Unidos en la universidad Texas A&M International (TAMIU). La mesa redonda fue la primera de su tipo en Laredo, y reunió a representantes de gobierno y el sector privado de ambos países para reforzar la cooperación y trabajar juntos para el desarrollo de la infraestructura y la mano de obra en el sector energético en la frontera. Además de la discusión de la mesa redonda, el congresista Cuéllar fue testigo de la firma de un memorándum de entendimiento entre TAMIU, la Universidad Autónoma Nacional de México, la Universidad Autónoma de Coahuila, la Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, la Universidad de Monterrey, la Universidad Autonóma de Tamaulipas y el Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey para iniciar programas de intercambio para material académico, estudiantes y también para el intercambio de profesores. El memorándum reafirma el compromiso de estas instituciones para colaborar juntos en estos programas y también para promover la investigación y la docencia de energía entre las cinco instituciones. Se espera que con este acuerdo, las universidades impulsen la innovación para el sector de petróleo internacional por medio de la colaboración y nuevos programas de licenciatura y estudio posgrado. “Esto es un evento histórico,” dijo el congresista Cuéllar. “Actualmente, los Estados Unidos y México son responsables de grandes avances tecnológicos en el sector energético. Esta es la primera vez que hemos tenido tantos expertos del sector en el mismo lugar para hablar sobre la perspectiva de la industria petrolera. Laredo se ubica en el corredor perfecto para facilitar el movimiento y el fomento de energía. La innovación y el desarrollo de nueva tecnología en el sector energético en ambos lados de la frontera tienen la finalidad de brindar trabajo, y buen salario, para invertir en nuestras comunidades y en nuestras familias. “La nueva reforma energética en México se presta para una buena colaboración e inversión por parte de las compañías de energía en EEUU. La colaboración entre las compañías nos ayudará a proporcionar energía al mundo entero. La discusión de hoy y el memorándum entre las instituciones brindará oportunidades para jóvenes académicos en ambos países para compartir ideas y tecnología, asimismo para romper las barreras e invertir en nuestra futura mano de obra.” "Es un honor para nosotros servir como anfitriones de esta reunión histórica de mentes y futuros compartidos,” comentó el Dr. Ray Keck, presidente de TAMIU. “TAMIU, con su experiencia académica, Centro Binacional y su poder de investigación, está idóneamente posicionada para ser el conducto internacional que canaliza estrategias enfocadas en el fortalecimiento de la cooperación binacional. Así también, estamos profundamente agradecidos con el Congresista Cuéllar por su liderazgo visionario y compromiso de apoyarnos a ampliar vínculos académicos con nuestros homólogos en las universidades mexicanas.”
10.01.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) hosted a roundtable Wednesday afternoon to discuss the issue of bank closures, or de-risking, in communities along the border. Representatives from both the U.S. and Mexico attended as well as Congressmen Juan Vargas (D-CA-51) and Will Hurd (R-TX-23). Banks in already underserved border communities have been closing at a critical rate. For example, 17 percent of banks have closed in Laredo, Texas, recently. In Calexico, Calif., 80 percent have closed; in San Ysidro, Calif., 50 percent; in Nogales, Ariz., 29 percent; and in El Paso, 13 percent. The reasons for these closings appear to be economic circumstances and costly anti-money laundering regulations. The following people participated in the event: · Congressmen Cuellar, Vargas and Hurd · Jason Wells, Executive Director of the San Ysidro Chamber of Commerce · Russ Jones, Gary Wyatt, Noe Garcia and Raymond Castillo of the Border Trade Alliance · Paola Avila, Vice President of the San Diego Chamber of Commerce · Bridget McGovern, Vice President of External Relations and Associate General Counsel at MoneyGram International · Suresh Ramamurthi, Chairman of CBW Bank · Margaret Liu, Senior Vice President of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors · Kelly Goulart, Regulatory Compliance Manager for the Independent Bankers Association of Texas · Rob Rowe, Vice President and Associate Chief Counsel for Regulatory Compliance of the American Bankers Association · Joan Gregory Saenz, Vice President of the American Bankers Association · Luis Nino and Jose Alberto Balbuena of the Mexican Bank Association · Dr. Lorena Martinez Trigueros, Director General of Payment Systems and Corporate Services for the Mexican Central Bank · Narciso Campos, Head of Banking, Securities and Savings Unit for the Mexican Ministry of Finance · Daniel Glaser, Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the U.S. Department of the Treasury · Jennifer Shasky Calvery, Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network · Maureen Smith, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Industry and Analysis at the Department of Commerce The discussion allowed border community, banking and government representatives the opportunity to bring up issues and potential solutions regarding bank closures along the border. “It’s great we had this opportunity to discuss de-risking with representatives from the public and private sectors from both the U.S. and Mexico,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our border communities are the lifeblood of trade between our two nations, and these communities need access to competitive banking services.” Congressman Hurd, one of the co-hosts, highlighted the effect of over-regulation on the border banking community. “Cross-border trade and commerce is critical, and we should be looking at ways to increase, not hamper it,” Hurd said. “While we must look for ways to counter illegal activities, we must also be cognizant of the unintended consequences over-regulation has on our local communities. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues, constituents, stakeholders and the administration to find ways to promote safety and economic growth.” One of the key players in the discussion surrounding bank de-risking has been the Border Trade Alliance. The alliance, a business organization advocating and supporting international trade in the U.S. southwest border region, sent its president, Noe Garcia, to represent the organization. “The Border Trade Alliance is extremely grateful to U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar for hosting our delegation yesterday,” Garcia said. “Reps. Cuellar, Vargas and Hurd have all shown great leadership by bringing together government, private sector and border community experts to help us find solutions to deal with the border banking crisis.” The participants from the public and private sectors on both sides of the border will take what they learned from the roundtable and use it to further their discussions on how to keep open access to credit in banks along the border.
09.30.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement today on the continuing resolution, or funding mechanism, approved by the House to continue funding for the federal government until December 11, 2015: “I am glad this continuing resolution came to the floor today. Keeping the federal government funded is vitally important. Doing so will allow us to continue paying local Homeland Security staff as well as our military. It will also allow us to continue funding crucial education, health care and transportation projects that our community needs as well as keeping all the other federal agencies open. Failing to keep the government open beyond today will cause great harm in a number of ways to my district. Although I know the fight to work out a funding resolution has been contentious, it is important that we keep the government funded and not allow it to lapse into another shutdown. I thank leadership for bringing this continuing resolution to the floor. However, we must be careful not to let this become precedent. I am encouraged by Speaker Boehner and Senate Majority Leader McConnell’s recent two-year budget talks with President Obama to hopefully head off another crisis like this. “After reviewing the continuing resolution, I decided that I would vote for it. In reviewing the legislation, I was particularly pleased to see a number of provisions. “The continuing resolution includes language allowing the Small Business Administration (SBA) flexibility in its funding to accommodate demand for 7(a) business loans. 7(a) loans are the most common type of loan given out by the SBA. In 2014, the program helped 52,044 U.S. small businesses with an average loan amount of $368,737. “The continuing resolution includes an extension of the Immigrant Investor (EB-5) Regional Center Program. Created by Congress in 1990, the EB-5 Program allows immigrant entrepreneurs to apply for a green card if they make investments in a commercial enterprise in the U.S. or plan to create or preserve 10 permanent full-time jobs for qualified U.S. workers. The Regional Center Program, also known as the Immigrant Investor Program, sets aside EB-5 visas for immigrants who invest in commercial enterprises associated with regional centers, which facilitate investment in job-creating economic development projects by pooling capital raised under the EB-5 immigrant investor program. “Finally, the continuing resolution offers support for veterans by allowing the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) to maintain increased staffing levels to help eliminate the disability claims backlog. Reports differ as to the exact size of the backlog, but it numbers at the very least in the tens of thousands. “With all these provisions in place, as well as many others, we can keep our government going and help the many people in our district to whom the federal government has a responsibility.
09.29.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that F.J. Scott Elementary School in Roma had been named a National Blue Ribbon School by the United States Department of Education. The Blue Ribbon, an award given out to just 335 schools across the country today, recognizes overall academic excellence or progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. F.J. Scott was given the award for overall academic excellence. “I am thrilled to hear of F.J. Scott’s success today,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As someone who has benefited greatly from good educational opportunities, I know how important the work of school faculty, staff and students is. The academic excellence fostered at F.J. Scott is an example that all schools should follow.” F.J. Scott Principal Diana Salinas explained that her school’s success was a result of high standards. “I am absolutely thrilled by today’s news,” Salinas said. “Here at F.J. Scott, we have established a system of collaboration where everyone is held accountable for the school’s success. Everyone – student, faculty, staff – is held to high standards, no excuses, and this has been fully embraced by the campus community.” F.J. Scott was the first school in the Roma Independent School District. It is currently home to 611 students between pre-K and fifth grade and employs 36 teachers.
09.25.2015	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), along with San Antonio Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX-23), Lamar Smith (R-TX-21), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX-35) and Joaquin Castro (D-TX-20), introduced H.R. 3612, bipartisan legislation to provide emergency funding for FY 2016 for the construction of a new federal courthouse for the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas. If passed, the San Antonio delegation’s bill, which would require an emergency budgetary designation by Congress, will provide an adequate seat of justice for a large federal judicial district that covers nearly 92,000 square miles and has divisions in Austin, Del Rio, El Paso, Midland, Pecos and Waco. The current John H. Wood, Jr. U.S. Courthouse in San Antonio was built nearly 50 years ago and suited not to the task of administering justice but to hosting part of the 1968 World's Fair. The courthouse as it is currently built causes numerous problems for its users. Judges, jurors, prosecutors and visitors often pass defendants charged with violent crimes in corridors and conveyances around the building. The building lacks a protected perimeter; tests positive for high levels of lead and iron contamination in its water, likely due to poor pipe construction; and is missing proper heating and air conditioning controls, not to mention asbestos and mold in and around the HVAC systems. Physical and environmental safety issues aside, the courthouse has nowhere near the capacity needed for current staffing levels. Originally housing two judges and 24 staff, the building is now home to seven judges and more than 280 staff. All of these factors place unneeded stress on a busy federal judicial district. "The Wood Courthouse has kept the Western District going for nearly 50 years, but it unfortunately does not have the capacity to support it any longer," Congressman Cuellar said. "The project to build a new courthouse is deserving of emergency appropriations because of the building’s numerous problems: The building’s water quality, air quality, space, safety and security issues go beyond simple repairs, and I am calling on Congress and the General Services Administration (GSA) to approve the construction of a new courthouse immediately. "The current courthouse was designed and built nearly 50 years ago and was not intended for its current purpose. It was designed to be a temporary pavilion for the 1968 World’s Fair. Not surprisingly, the courthouse has serious safety and security concerns. Prisoners are not separated from judges, juries, lawyers, civilians, and staff; they are often walking the same hallways. Water in the building has been found to contain unhealthy levels of lead and iron. Similarly, the HVAC systems leak, have exposed electrical wires and contain asbestos and mold buildup. In addition, much of the building is not in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act." The bipartisan San Antonio delegation is united behind building the Western District a new judicial home. "For too long, the Wood Courthouse has languished on a waitlist, stalling new construction for critical security and safety updates," said Congressman Castro. "Emergency funding is essential to ensure the courthouse’s basic functionality and to protect workers and visitors from potentially serious harm." Noted Congressman Hurd: "It’s outrageous that some of the most violent drug trafficking and organized crime cases in Texas are being tried in a 1960s movie theater. The building’s shortcomings pose a serious physical threat to the federal employees that work there and the increasing number of civilians who visit the adjacent playground. The way I see it, the current facility puts the health and safety of San Antonians at risk. Moving the U.S. federal court proceedings out of this dangerous location is a public safety priority." Said Congressman Smith: "Contaminated water, asbestos and mold have all recently been discovered at the U.S. District Courthouse for the Western District in San Antonio. This is a necessary step we must take in order to address many safety and security issues at the courthouse." Said Congressman Doggett: "Despite years of our Bexar congressional delegation working together to secure construction funding, we still have a vacant lot where we should have a hall of justice. This year House Republicans have refused to fund new courthouse construction anywhere in the country. Prior to that, the Administrative Office of the Courts unjustifiably downgraded the priority for our courthouse. In these circumstances, this emergency bill may be only a ‘hail Mary’ pass, but I am in favor of throwing it." H.R. 3612 calls for the new courthouse to be built on city-owned land at police headquarters on West Nueva Street. The new land would be acquired by the GSA, the federal government's "landlord," through a land swap with the city. The Wood Courthouse has long been known to be inadequate, but funding for a replacement has been delayed for years. Since 2000, the GSA has been exploring replacement options for the Wood Courthouse among others. "A new federal courthouse is long overdue," said San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor. "The recent water and air quality problems within the Woods Federal Courthouse come on top of long-standing security concerns. We are grateful for Congressman Cuellar’s attention and sponsorship and Congressmen Smith, Castro, Doggett and Hurd for their support as original co-sponsors of this emergency appropriation in FY16." San Antonio City Manager Sheryl Sculley noted the redevelopment possibilities of building a new federal courthouse: "In 2010, the City agreed to swap its former Police Headquarter site for the existing Federal Courthouse site in HemisFair Park. The exchange would be catalytic for two areas of downtown redevelopment; the Park and the Civic Center where the new courthouse would be built. Both the city and federal government are waiting for Congress to fund the construction of the new courthouse in order to close on the transaction."
09.24.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today released the following statement on His Holiness Pope Francis’ address to a joint meeting of Congress: “Pope Francis’ visit to our nation’s Capitol was a truly historic event. His address to Congress was greatly welcomed by many of my colleagues as we put aside our partisan politics to listen to a world leader on peace. I invited a number of my constituents to listen and take part in this momentous occasion as I believe in building peace and understanding in order to make our nation fair and prosperous for everyone. Pope Francis has brought people with different ideologies together to talk about our most pressing issues, such as immigration and social inequalities. But, regardless of religion, I believe Pope Francis’ commitment to peace, goodwill and the Golden Rule is something that all of us should adhere to. “Pope Francis’ stances on the key issues of our time transcend the political boxes we often place ourselves into, but they carry clear lessons for politicians in the U.S. and across the world. The pope’s emphasis on our social responsibility to do good for our communities is a clear call to action that we cannot ignore. As a practicing Roman Catholic, I found particularly moving His Holiness’ exhortation to legislate justly and with compassion for everyone in our society. “A running theme throughout the pope’s address was the need for greater dialogue. At a time of fractured relations between both parties in Congress, and between so many different groups outside Washington, I hope that all my colleagues take His Holiness’ address to heart. “As Pope Francis outlined in his address to a joint meeting of Congress today, dialogue can help us confront some of our world’s greatest problems: hostility, violence, poverty and discrimination in all its many forms. As the pope stated, we have seen some of these problems manifest themselves in the discussion over immigration in this country as well as the fight for civil rights. Pope Francis reminded us that most of us in this country are the descendants of immigrants and that we should respect the rights of everyone; ‘We, the people of this continent, are not fearful of foreigners, because most of us were once foreigners.’ Another one of His Holiness’ statements really resonated with me, ‘If we want security, let us give security; if we want life, let us give life; if we want opportunities, let us provide opportunities.’ “If there is one lesson we can all take away from His Holiness’ address today, it is the need to treat our neighbors as full equals, deserving of our full respect and compassion. Throughout His Holiness’ address, he invoked the Golden Rule and its application to so many of our greatest conflicts. By implementing the Golden Rule, perhaps we can find a way to alleviate hunger, poverty, discrimination and increase economic equality.
09.21.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today that Rambo, a military working dog from his district, took home the American Humane Association’s prize for Military Dog of the Year Saturday night at the Annual Hero Dog Awards in Los Angeles. Rambo was a finalist for the grand prize of 2015 American Hero Dog. Rambo, from Converse, near San Antonio, served in the Marine Corps from January 2011 to April 2012 as an explosive detection military working dog based out of Cherry Point, North Carolina. While on active duty, Rambo conducted 994 hours of training and 622 missions on base and in the local community before being retired due to a shoulder injury. Rambo is currently the mascot for Gizmo’s Gift, a Texas nonprofit that helps families who adopt a retired working dog. Rambo visits local nursing homes and youth groups to bring joy to people’s lives. “Rambo demonstrates the loyalty and teamwork that we value in our Armed Forces,” said Congressman Cuellar. “His crucial work alongside our soldiers in sniffing out explosives is greatly deserving of special recognition.” Although Congressman Cuellar was not able to attend the award ceremony, he and Congressman Gus Bilirakis (R-FL-12), together co-chairs of the Congressional Humane Bond Caucus, filmed a video address shown at the ceremony in which they congratulated all the finalists, including Rambo. The Humane Bond Caucus works to strengthen the human bond between people and animals in working environments, our homes, hospitals, educational settings, the wild and agriculture. The award ceremony will be broadcast on the Hallmark Channel October 30 at 8 p.m. ET / 7 p.m. CT.
09.17.2015	Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), and Gene Green (D-TX) applaud the House Committee on Energy and Commerce on the approval of H.R. 702, which would amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 to repeal the outdated ban on crude oil exports. Rep. Barton stated, “I would like to thank Congressman Cuellar who was the first of many Democrats to cosponsor this legislation. His leadership made this step possible. Chairman Upton, Chairman Whitfield, and Congressman Green have also been instrumental in crossing this major hurdle at Committee.” While the ban was originally implemented in a time of fear over the scarcity of domestic oil, the recent boom in drilling activity across the country as a result of new technologies has made America one of the world’s largest oil producers. Lifting the ban is a simple, commonsense, and free market piece of legislation that has achieved bipartisan support so rarely seen in Congress today. “The crude oil export ban is an outdated ban that is slowing our economy, both in Texas and across the country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Several unbiased sources, including the Energy Information Administration (EIA), have released data highlighting the benefits of lifting the ban, including the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs and flat or lowered gas prices.” “Forget all the political rhetoric and look at the facts. This bill is about unleashing the American ability to compete and to strategically make the world a better place. I want this to be an American bill, not a partisan bill. This was the last major step for this legislation prior to reaching the House Floor and ultimately the President’s desk. If the President signs this bill, I guarantee you we are going to increase economic activity, create jobs, and put America first in the world market,” added Congressman Barton. Congressman Green said, “We’ve been eager to work on this legislation for months, and come to a solution that works. While this is still a work in progress, we’re pleased with the strides we’ve made. Any legislation that passes out of the House needs to be bipartisan and protect American jobs and families. Not only do we need the Presidential protections we provided today, we need to have a process established at the Department of Commerce and provide opportunity for our maritime community.” All three Texans are encouraged that H.R. 702 will reach the House Floor within the next few weeks. This important step helps encourage the Senate to move forward and shows this Administration compelling bipartisan support for this legislation.
09.17.2015	Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), and Gene Green (D-TX) applaud the House Committee on Energy and Commerce on the approval of H.R. 702, which would amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 to repeal the outdated ban on crude oil exports. Rep. Barton stated, “I would like to thank Congressman Cuellar who was the first of many Democrats to cosponsor this legislation. His leadership made this step possible. Chairman Upton, Chairman Whitfield, and Congressman Green have also been instrumental in crossing this major hurdle at Committee.” While the ban was originally implemented in a time of fear over the scarcity of domestic oil, the recent boom in drilling activity across the country as a result of new technologies has made America one of the world’s largest oil producers. Lifting the ban is a simple, commonsense, and free market piece of legislation that has achieved bipartisan support so rarely seen in Congress today. “The crude oil export ban is an outdated ban that is slowing our economy, both in Texas and across the country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Several unbiased sources, including the Energy Information Administration (EIA), have released data highlighting the benefits of lifting the ban, including the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs and flat or lowered gas prices.” “Forget all the political rhetoric and look at the facts. This bill is about unleashing the American ability to compete and to strategically make the world a better place. I want this to be an American bill, not a partisan bill. This was the last major step for this legislation prior to reaching the House Floor and ultimately the President’s desk. If the President signs this bill, I guarantee you we are going to increase economic activity, create jobs, and put America first in the world market,” added Congressman Barton. Congressman Green said, “We’ve been eager to work on this legislation for months, and come to a solution that works. While this is still a work in progress, we’re pleased with the strides we’ve made. Any legislation that passes out of the House needs to be bipartisan and protect American jobs and families. Not only do we need the Presidential protections we provided today, we need to have a process established at the Department of Commerce and provide opportunity for our maritime community.” All three Texans are encouraged that H.R. 702 will reach the House Floor within the next few weeks. This important step helps encourage the Senate to move forward and shows this Administration compelling bipartisan support for this legislation.
09.16.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will hold a wild horse and burro adoption here on September 25 and 26. The animals to be adopted will be displayed at the Laredo International Fair and Exposition (LIFE Downs) and will consist of dozens of adult and yearling horses and burros that once roamed free on Western public lands. BLM occasionally removes excess animals from public lands and puts them up for adoption in order to maintain a healthy balance between herd size and available resources. To adopt, one must be at least 18 and have no record of animal abuse. Adopters must have a minimum of 400 square feet of corral space per animal with free access to food, water and shelter. A six-foot corral fence is required for adult horses, five feet for yearlings and four-and-a-half feet for burros. All animals must be loaded in covered stock-type trailers with swing gates and sturdy walls and floors. BLM staff will be on hand to assist adopters through the application process. All animals will be available for adoption for at least $125 (the minimum statutory amount). As an incentive, BLM pays a one-time $500 care-and-feeding allowance to adopters of horses at least four years old. WHO: BLM, attendees of the Laredo International Fair and Exposition, Congressman Cuellar’s office WHAT: BLM will be administering an adoption of excess wild horses and burros removed from federal lands. WHERE: Laredo International Fair and Exposition (LIFE Downs) located at Hwy 59 East, Laredo, Texas 78043 -- From I-35 Exit 2 in Laredo, go east on U.S. Hwy 59 approx. 3 ½ miles to facility. WHEN: Friday, September 25 – 12 p.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturday, September 26 – 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. For more information on BLM adoption programs and incentives, please visit www.blm.gov/nm/whb or contact Paul McGuire, BLM Public Affairs Specialist, by phone at 405-826-3036 or via email at pmcguire@blm.gov. For other information, please contact Congressman Cuellar’s District Press Secretary Rafael Benavides by phone at 956-286-6007 or via email at Rafael.Benavides@mail.house.gov.
09.15.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today attended the grand opening of the new $6.1 million Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) Crime Lab with State Rep. Richard P. Raymond, DPS Director Steven C. McCraw, Mayor Pete Saenz, and other local and state leaders. L-R: Representative Richard P. Raymond, Texas Department of Public Safety Director Steve McCraw and Congressman Henry Cuellar attend the new DPS Crime Lab in Laredo on Tuesday. The crime lab is the result of teamwork between federal, state and local governments and will provide local law enforcement with the technology and personnel to process evidence here in town, rather than having to send materials to existing labs in Austin and Weslaco. The new 17,537 gross square-foot crime lab accommodates 12 employees and will provide Laredo area law enforcement with services for controlled substance analysis, freezers for DNA preservation, ballistics testing and more. It will reduce backlogs and allow law enforcement to speed up the rate at which cases can be analyzed and will help prosecutors get cases to trail faster in order to provide fast and accurate justice for the community. Thanks to the help of Rep. Richard P. Raymond (D-Laredo), the 81st Texas Legislature authorized funding for the construction of a new crime laboratory in Laredo. On the federal level, Congressman Henry Cuellar secured an earmark in 2010 for $250,000 in the Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) technology program. Those funds were provided through a grant to the Webb County Sheriff’s Office and were used in the new crime lab facility for firing range equipment and support to provide safe and secure ballistic testing of evidentiary firearms at an approximate cost of $190,000. The earmark also secured the purchase of a walk-in freezer for storage and preservation of DNA evidentiary samples at an approximate cost of $68,000. “This crime lab is a great investment for the community.” said Congressman Cuellar. “With this new lab, local law enforcement and prosecutors will now have the capabilities and state-of-the-art technology to test, archive and present evidence. I thank Rep. Raymond, Texas Department of Public Safety Director McCraw and Sheriff Cuellar for their collaborative efforts in making this lab a reality.” “I appreciate Congressman Cuellar getting us additional funding to make this crime lab even more effective and I am also proud that we are naming it after O.J. Hale who has given his life to serve our country and our community by working to protect the public safety of our city,” said Representative Richard P. Raymond "Today's announcement is a historic moment in our great city. The unveiling of a building such as this one is testament of what happens when local, county, state and federal agencies work together for a common good," said Sheriff Martin Cuellar. "This new state-of-the-art facility will truly have a great impact in helping solve crimes in the Gateway City."
09.14.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), along with Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), Rep. Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX-15), Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX-34) and Texas Gov. Greg Abbott met with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald to discuss issues relating to veteran health care in the Rio Grande Valley. Sec. McDonald’s visit follows an invitation from Sen. Cornyn in October 2014. Sec. McDonald, Sen. Cornyn, Gov. Abbott and the delegation toured the VA facility in Harlingen as well as the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley’s (UTRGV) Smart Hospital and took part in roundtable discussions about UTRGV’s plans for a new medical school. They also met with local veterans to address potential solutions for local VA health care. In McAllen, Sec. McDonald and the delegation met with local veterans and toured the McAllen Veterans War Memorial and later attended the McAllen Chamber of Commerce Legislative Luncheon, where Sen. Cornyn and Sec. McDonald participated in an onstage conversation regarding South Texas veterans’ concerns and other issues affecting the region and the nation. “Veterans care should be a national priority and I am grateful that we were able to bring together a bipartisan coalition to discuss this important issue. I am confident that Secretary McDonald will prioritize improving veteran services in South Texas and the Valley,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My district has over 38,000 veterans, many of whom live in the Valley. The wait times and service that our veterans receive need to improve greatly. That’s why I have worked for years to increase partnerships between local hospitals and the VA to provide treatment to veterans and why I supported the Veterans’ Compensation Cost of Living Adjustment Act (COLA) to increase the amounts paid to veterans for disability compensation and to their survivors for dependency and indemnity compensation. “Back in May, I met with veterans in Starr and Hidalgo Counties to announce a recent expansion in medical services from the VA Choice Program for eligible veterans. I sat down with them to explain that under the expansion of these services, veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility may use a closer medical facility as long as they receive preauthorization from TriWest. Programs like these make a real difference for those seeking treatment and I will work to bring more efficiency to the VA system. My commitment is to the people of Texas and I will continue to fight for veterans’ health care in Washington.”
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) issued the following statement today in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or the Iran nuclear deal, between the U.S., Germany, France, the United Kingdom, China, Russia, the European Union and Iran: "Since the Iran nuclear deal was officially released in July 2015, I have been carefully reviewing it, discussing it with experts and constituents back home and poring over classified materials available to members of Congress. I have decided to support the deal because it will be in the best interest of the United States, Israel and our allies. "Fundamentally, the world is faced with two issues regarding Iran: Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon, and Iran’s destabilizing activities in the Middle East and other parts of the world. To be clear, I am not naïve and know that Iran is not to be trusted. "This agreement deals only with Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon. Congress and the administration will continue to address the other issue with laws and appropriations to stop Iran’s destabilizing activities. "I am a friend of Israel; I always have been and I always will be. I have visited Israel, attended Bonds for Israel dinners, and I support this agreement as a strong ally. Furthermore, I have paid close attention to the thoughts of my Jewish colleagues such as Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, nuclear experts such as Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, and sanctions experts such as Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, and when they tell me that this agreement is in the best interest of Israel, the U.S. and our allies, I cannot ignore it. "Much of the debate has centered on the agreement’s impact on Israel. As a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, I have supported appropriations to bolster this key American ally. "Since 2009, Congress has provided $20.5 billion in foreign military financing (FMF) to Israel, which adds up to more than half of the total U.S.-provided FMF we provide to the entire world. Furthermore, we have provided Israel an additional $3 billion in Iron Dome systems and missile defense programs. We supply Israel with some of the most advanced military equipment in the world, including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which will be delivered next year. In addition, Israel has been authorized an unprecedented $1.9 billion munitions resupply package that provides Israel with state-of-the-art precision-guided munitions. In addition, we provide intelligence and other assistance to Israel. This agreement does not tie our hands when it comes to our military efforts or intelligence powers. With this in mind, I believe America can come to Israel’s aid should potential harm ever come its way. "I can compare much of the debate on this issue to the debate about the U.S.-Mexico border. I frequently hear people from around the country talking about what is best for the region, but they often pay no attention to the experts who really know what is happening there. Similarly, I cannot brush aside the fact that experts on Israel, including retired generals and admirals, 29 of our country’s top scientists, former nuclear weapons inspectors, and 440 rabbis, have backed it. Additionally, more than 60 former Israeli security experts have urged the Israeli prime minister to support the agreement. I have been in classified meetings on the agreement. I have also met with leaders from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the European Union. My meetings have given me a broad sense of stakeholder concerns, so I am making a decision based on a wide array of information. This decision is based on a fact-driven analysis of the agreement and not party politics nor emotion. "There are many influential supporters of this agreement. "Recently, three dozen retired generals and admirals released an open letter in which they argued, “There is no better option to prevent an Iranian nuclear weapon. Military action would be less effective than the deal, assuming it is fully implemented. If the Iranians cheat, our advanced technology, intelligence and the inspections will reveal it, and U.S. military options remain on the table. And if the deal is rejected by America, the Iranians could have a nuclear weapon within a year. The choice is that stark.” Among the signers of this letter were Marine Gen. James Cartwright, former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Joseph P. Hoar, former head of the U.S. Central Command; and Gens. Merrill McPeak and Lloyd W. Newton of the Air Force. "Secretary of Defense Ash Carter recently wrote in a USA Today op-ed: “Nothing in the Iran deal constrains the U.S. Defense Department in any way or its ability to carry out such a mission. Indeed, the reality is that any prospective military option, if called for, will be more effective under this deal — not less. Iran will have a smaller and more concentrated civil nuclear program, and the deal’s verification provisions will give us more information with which to plan.” "Some people have argued that the agreement was based on the expectation that Iran will reform its ways. The truth of the matter is that none of this agreement is based on trust. Rather, it implements the most expansive monitoring and transparency regime ever negotiated. When former President Ronald Reagan inherited the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) with the former Soviet Union in the early ‘80s and proposed the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks, he based the terms of those talks not on trust, but on verification. Reagan was not soft when it came to the Soviet Union – all important diplomatic deals to lessen weapons threats exist because of a lack of trust, not in spite of it. These talks led to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) signed by President George H.W. Bush. "I have read this agreement page by page. I have heard from Vice President Joe Biden, Secretary of State Kerry, Secretary Lew and Secretary Moniz. I have talked to the Israeli ambassador to the U.S., Ronald Dermer, about this issue. I have attended classified and unclassified briefings on the pros and cons of this agreement. I have met in person with constituents, some of them dear friends of mine, and talked to them on the phone to sound out their thoughts. I have heard from people in my district reflecting a wide spectrum of opinions on this agreement. I have paid very close attention to what they have said. "With that in mind, we need to tackle the Iran problem by starting with where the country is at the moment: Iran is a nuclear threshold state, with about two months needed to develop a nuclear weapon — not in 10 to 15 years, but in a mere two months. This agreement will push back the breakout period for Iran to at least a year, a level at which it will remain for a decade or more. Currently, Iran can continue to rapidly develop advanced centrifuges. This agreement will reduce Iran’s centrifuges by two-thirds for 10 years. Iran can also currently expand its stockpile of enriched uranium, which currently stands at more than 12,000 kilograms. With the agreement, that amount could be reduced to no more than 300 kilograms for 15 years. Iran can currently produce enough weapons-grade plutonium each year for one to two nuclear weapons. With the agreement, Iran cannot produce any weapons-grade plutonium. Iran’s undeclared locations are currently not accessible to investigators from the IAEA. With this agreement, the IAEA can go wherever the evidence suggests suspicious activity. No facility will be off-limits. Despite all these facts, some people have misunderstood the basis of the agreement, its mechanisms and its purported loopholes. "There are critics who oppose this deal because it lifts sanctions. The sanctions that will be lifted are only those that we imposed on the regime due to their nuclear activities. These sanctions were put in place specifically for the purpose of bringing Iran to the negotiating table. The U.S. and E.U. will continue to maintain non-nuclear sanctions on Iran including those that were put in place as a result of Iran’s human rights abuses and support for terrorism. We must further remember that much of the sanctioned funds (which is a smaller amount than what critics claim) are not held by the U.S. but are held by China, India, Turkey, Japan and South Korea. It is unrealistic to think that these sanctions will hold should the U.S. reject this deal, one the rest of the world supports. "I have also heard people argue that Iran could conduct covert activities because the agreement allows it up to 24 days to grant access to sites deemed suspicious. First, the IAEA can request access with just 24 hours’ notice under the Additional Protocol of the Nonproliferation Treaty. The accord goes further than any other nonproliferation agreement by allowing the IAEA to resolve all access issues within 24 days. There is no way to destroy all evidence of nuclear material from a site in 24 days or even over a much longer time horizon, and we still have access to our surveillance technology and intelligence as well as other countries’. "Should the U.S. turn down this agreement no better deal will be possible and our sanctions regime will collapse. This deal came through high-level diplomatic engagement and has broad international backing. I have spoken to European ambassadors, and should the U.S. turn down this deal, one that was unanimously approved by the 15 members of the United Nations Security Council and supported by the Gulf Cooperation Council nations, all of whom are greatly concerned by Iran, our credibility with the world community will be hampered in the future and no better deal will be reached. "There are two options before us: do nothing and allow Iran to become a nuclear weapons power, or pass this deal and protect Israel, our friends in the region and partners around the globe. To tackle the Iran problem, a reasonable solution stands before us: the JCPOA. The JCPOA is not a perfect deal, but after nearly two months of careful reflection, consultation and review of the confidential materials available to members of Congress, it deserves my support. "One last point: There will be other congressional actions to protect Israel after today’s vote, and I will continue to support Israel. "I encourage my constituents to read the JCPOA and related documents, available here, and I thank them for sharing their thoughts with me personally and with my staff in the district and in Washington, D.C."
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON – The Blue Dog Coalition announced their support today for H.R. 702, a bill to repeal the ban on crude oil exports in the United States. The Coalition backs the bill as changing market conditions have proven that the 1970’s-era ban on crude exports is hopelessly outdated. Among countries with the largest energy reserves, the United States is the sole nation that prohibits the export of its own domestically-produced oil. The bill repeals a section of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975, which gives the president the authority to restrict oil exports. "It makes no sense that the U.S. can export refined oil products, but not crude oil," said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration Kurt Schrader (OR-05). "Currently, crude oil from the U.S., one of the world’s leading producers, is excluded from determining the global market price of oil. In order to expand our markets and decrease gasoline prices globally, this ban must be lifted. Allowing U.S. oil into foreign markets also has the potential to increase stability in volatile regions of the world by creating competition on the global market and limiting the ability of countries like Russia to use crude oil as a political weapon. Lifting this ban would help improve the U.S.’s trade balance problem and improve the future budget picture for America. It’s high time that Congress moves forward on this commonsense, bipartisan and straightforward solution to a ban which has outlived its usefulness.” “For the first time in two decades, we are producing more oil than we are buying from foreign countries,” said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy Jim Cooper (TN-05). “And our gas production is at an all-time high and growing so fast that we will soon be producing more than we will be able to use at home. The boost to job creation that comes from low energy prices and weaning ourselves from foreign oil is huge, and gives us an international competitive advantage. All of this, including exporting crude, gives us a chance to become an energy leader and we shouldn’t squander this opportunity.” “The ban on crude oil exports is an outdated policy that frankly, no longer makes sense,” said Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications Jim Costa (CA-16). “New technologies have provided the United States with an abundance of domestic crude oil production and expanding our export opportunities to include crude oil, in addition to gasoline and natural gas products, will further stimulate our economy and create jobs. Additionally, and importantly, providing our domestic producers the ability to sell crude oil to the global market will reduce the geopolitical influence of bad actors like Iran and Russia. This is commonsense, bipartisan legislation that will have a positive impact here in the United States and abroad.” “As the representative for one of the largest oil-producing regions in the country, I have seen the negative effects of the crude oil export ban on industry in my district,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), lead Democratic whip for the bill. “With jobs being lost and equipment being taken offline, we need to take proactive steps to ensure that the new product being drawn out of the ground with new extraction technologies can be sold. Lifting the ban will benefit the U.S. economy and will likely lead to lower gas prices. It will also jump-start the economy by creating as many as 800,000 new jobs.” H.R. 702 currently has 123 cosponsors from both parties and will receive a vote in the House Subcommittee on Energy and Power tomorrow. The legislation received a hearing in the Subcommittee in July. -###- The fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, and are committed to working across the aisle to find solutions to the biggest issues facing the United States. Visit the Blue Dog website at http://bluedog.schrader.house.gov/ to learn more. You can also news updates on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/BlueDogPress.
09.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that constituents in the 28th Congressional District will have the opportunity to see Pope Francis in Washington, D.C., by being selected through a lottery drawing. On September 24, His Holiness Pope Francis will become the first sitting pope to address a joint session of Congress. Following the address, Pope Francis will make a brief appearance on the steps of the U.S. Capitol. Interested individuals should fill out this form and submitting it on or before Sept. 9. A random drawing will take place in Congressman Cuellar’s D.C. office Sept. 10, and ticket winners will be notified that same day. Two tickets in each of the nine counties Congressman Cuellar represents (Bexar, Wilson, Atascosa, McMullen, La sale, Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo) will be selected through the lottery. These tickets will grant their holders admission to watch the Pope’s address on jumbotrons on the West Lawn of the Capitol. Tickets are standing-room only, not for His Holiness’ address inside the House Chamber. Sightings of His Holiness as he passes through the crowds are not guaranteed, and ticketholders will be responsible for their own transportation, lodging and trip expenses. Only constituents of Texas’ 28th Congressional District are eligible for this lottery. For more information, please call Congressman Cuellar’s D.C. office at (202) 225-1640.
09.02.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) attended a dedication ceremony with officials from the United States Postal Service, local veterans groups and members in the community to officially rename the Floresville Post Office as the “Floresville Veterans Post Office Building,” in honor of the sacrifices made by veterans everywhere. In June of this year, Congressman Cuellar announced the successful passage of H.R. 891, a bill he authored to rename the post office in Floresville. The bill successfully passed the House and Senate and, in July, President Barack Obama signed H.R. 891 into law, officially changing the name of the post office in Floresville in honor of veterans, both living and deceased. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) delivers a Congressional Certificate of Recognition and a framed U.S. flag flown over the Capitol during the renaming ceremony for the Floresville Veterans Post Office Building. Pictured from left to right are Congressman Henry Cuellar, Postmaster Johnnie Crisp, Ayda Alderete, Manager, Post Office Operations and Postal Clerk Jerry Rodriguez. “Our veterans embody what is great about America. Locally, Floresville is blessed to have so many selfless individuals who have honorably served our country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I want to make sure that their dedication to our nation is honored at every level. The Floresville Veterans Post Office Building will forever be a reminder of the valor and courage we find within our veteran community. I thank the staff at the United States Postal Service for their great service and participation in this process,” said Congressman Cuellar. "On behalf of the U.S. Postal Service, I want to express sincere appreciation to all our veterans of the United States Armed Forces here in Floresville, as we rename this post office building in your honor and join our entire community in saying thank you for your commitment, your sacrifice, and your service to country," said Ayda Alderete, USPS Rio Grande District Alamo Area Manager, Post Office Operations. Among the brave Floresville residents who have fought for our country are Frank Villarreal, Pedro Devora and Rufino Gonzalez. Mr. Villarreal served in Vietnam with the U.S. Navy Seawolves helicopter squadron, which provided support to the Navy SEALS. Mr. Devora and Mr. Gonzalez served on the USS Sangamon in World War II and survived a kamikaze attack. The post office, located at 141 Paloma Drive, is located across the street from the Frank M. Tejeda Texas State Veteran’s Home, which currently houses 154 area veterans. View video of Rep. Cuellar speaking in favor of H.R. 891 in the U.S. House of Representatives here: https://youtu.be/fsSCVxdvvO
08.31.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced that a large portion of contaminated soil located at the former Anzon site, an old antimony smelter near residential neighborhoods in north Laredo, has been cleaned and is one step closer to being redeveloped into a sewer treatment plant. According to the Agency for Toxic Substances & Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal public health agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, antimony is a silvery white metal that can be harmful to human health if released into the atmosphere or water supply during the mining and processing of its ores and in the production of antimony products. At one time the largest antimony smelter in the world, the former Anzon site was originally located in Mexico and moved to Laredo in response to a duty placed on foreign antimony in the 1920s. Anzon, now known as AI Divestitures Inc., (AI), operated the approximately 130-acre site, which sits at the intersection of Mines Road and Interstate Highway 35 (bisected by Manadas Creek), until it ceased operations of an antimony processing facility in 1999. In 2004, the facility was demolished; however, part of the site was contaminated with antimony. Five to six acres out of the 71 acres north of Manadas Creek were used by Anzon, and the rest of the property had no contamination. Last month, AI submitted a report to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) detailing its success in removing antimony from the surface soil on the northern portion of the site. Recently, that report was approved by TCEQ and a determination of no further action was made. Now AI can proceed with the sale of the site to the city of Laredo for redevelopment as a sewer treatment plant. “I have worked with the EPA, TCEQ and key stakeholders for year to make sure this site was cleaned up,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I’m happy to learn now that it can be redeveloped for a better purpose for our community.” “AI Divestitures Inc. is very pleased that the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality on August 20, 2015 confirmed that 71 acres of AI’s property north of Manadas Creek has been remediated to meet residential standards,” said Jamie Kalanta, who has been overseeing this project as vice president of Alent D.O.G. According to local officials, the city has reached the final stage of authorizing the purchase of the northern portion and will finalize it soon. Under a 1995 order, AI is required to investigate and remediate the site in accordance with TCEQ cleanup rules. Aside from the recently approved 71 acres, action is also being taken on the southern portion of the site, where AI is currently finalizing bids for further development.
08.29.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today attended an event at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) celebrating the beginning of the second year of a three-year grant to improve minority representation in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Congressman Cuellar helped to secure a three-year federal funding grant of approximately $750,000 for the TAMIU's Minority Science and Engineering Improvement Program (MSEIP) in 2014, which aims to increase the participation of underrepresented minorities at Texas A&M International University in science and engineering careers. In remarks to the roughly 90 high school students and their parents who were in attendance at Saturday morning’s event, Congressman Cuellar underlined the importance of education in his own life. “Traditionally, minority students have been underrepresented nationally in STEM careers,” Congressman Cuellar said. “There is a great need in our country for expertise in these fields and the demand will continue to grow for years. It has been my priority to make sure students in my district get a level playing field when competing for opportunities in higher education and in the workforce. I thank Dr. Keck and everyone involved in the MSEIP program at TAMIU for believing in our students and investing in the future generations of our community.” Dr. Keck concurred, noting the bright futures ahead for MSEIP Program students. “Research shows that students graduating in STEM fields have tremendous career and employment opportunities available to them, with premium salaries and benefits to those holding degrees in these fields. We consider ourselves blessed to be able to offer these students the key to that future through participation in this program,” Dr. Keck said. Congressman Cuellar realizes the need to close the education gap for minority students. According to the U.S. Department of Education, Hispanics compose 20 percent of America’s youth, but make up less than two percent of the STEM workforce. Congressman Cuellar continues his commitment to improving the lot of minority communities in his district through higher education. As a state legislator, he authored the bill that created the TEXAS Grant, the largest scholarship program in Texas history. In Congress, he helped pass H.R. 1911, legislation that lowered student loan interest rates. Congressman Cuellar received his masters of business administration in international trade from TAMIU, formerly Laredo State University, in 1982.
08.28.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today awarded Sergeant Valentin Moreno, a veteran with the United States Army, with the Purple Heart Award. The Purple Heart is awarded to members of the armed forces of the United States who are wounded by an instrument of war in the hands of the enemy. It was established by General George Washington in 1782. For injuries received on August 19, 1969 as a result of hostile actions in the Republic of Vietnam, Mr. Moreno was entitled to the Purple Heart. In recognition of Mr. Moreno’s service to the United States during the Cold War, he was also awarded a Cold War Recognition Certificate. Congressman Cuellar pins the Purple Heart on Sergeant Valentin E. Moreno during a ceremony at Laredo City Hall on Friday. Congressman Cuellar meets with the family of veteran Valentin E. Moreno during a Purple Heart ceremony at Laredo City Hall on Friday. L-R: Congressman Henry Cuellar, Derick Moreno, Sgt. Michelle Rodriguez, Sgt. Valentin E. Moreno, Juanita Moreno, Steven Moreno and Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. “My office was successful in obtaining Mr. Moreno’s Purple Heart and Cold War Recognition to be honorably presented to him in front of the community, as well as his family and friends,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Mr. Moreno for his service to our country. He truly is a great example of an outstanding citizen and makes me proud to be a Laredoan.” “I am honored to be able to be part of such a momentous presentation to a true Laredo hero,” said City of Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz. “Mr. Moreno exemplifies what is great about Laredo, and America: selfless service to our country. Mr. Moreno’s actions in Vietnam represent valor, courage, love and defense of freedom.” Born in Laredo in 1947, Valentin Moreno graduated from Martin High School in 1966 and received his Bachelors of Science in Computer Information Systems in 1998 from Texas A&M International University. He served in the United States Army for 12 years, including three tours from 1967 to 1970 in Vietnam. He is a former Army Ranger who has received various awards and citations including the Silver Star, Bronze Star, Air Medal, Combat Infantry Badge, the Covet Ranger Tab, the Master Parachutist Wings and the Vietnamese Parachutist Wings. He currently resides in Laredo with his wife Juanita, and has three children: Derick, Steven and Michelle. He is a member of the American Legion Post 59, where he serves as the public relations chairperson.
08.26.2015	Today, Rep. Cuellar (D-TX-28) marked Women’s Equality Day, a celebration of the 95th anniversary of the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which ensured women’s right to vote across the country. This hard-won victory came after 72 years of marching and petitioning as well as ostracism and imprisonment following the first major women’s rights conference at Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848. “Women’s Equality Day serves as an important reminder of the great accomplishments of women in our country and the history to obtain equal rights,” Congressman Cuellar said. “We must continue to work to remove the gaps and ceilings that remain between men and women, particularly in the workplace.” Even today, outdated policies limit opportunities in the workplace. For instance, women, on average, are still paid just 78 cents for every dollar paid to men. This wage gap is unacceptable in the 21st century and hurts both women and families. “One of the best ways to spur economic growth and reignite the American dream is to level the playing field on which men and women play,” Congressman Cuellar said. “On this Women’s Equality Day, let us redouble our commitment to better economic opportunity for women, knowing that women’s success is America’s success.”
08.19.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), along with Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) President Dr. Ray Keck III and TRiO Student Support Services Program Director Leticia Valle, announced today that TAMIU has been awarded a $1.2 million grant by the United States Department of Education, which will be used by the university’s TRiO Student Support Services program to provide academic assistance to students in need. The $1.2 million federal grant from the Department of Education will be disbursed over five years ($247,584 per year) and will fund TAMIU’s TRiO Student Support Services program, which is designed to identify and help provide academic services for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. The program provides tutoring, counseling, remediation and other support services to students who are low-income, first-generation college students or students with disabilities. Since 2001, TAMIU has received $3.3 million from the Department of Education for this program, which teaches students how to employ a highly structured approach to school. Participating students are required to attend weekly half-hour meetings with an academic coordinator. “These federal funds are an investment in the future of our community and workforce. As a first-generation student myself, I understand the challenges many of our students face when pursuing higher education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The services provided by TAMIU’s TRiO Student Support Services provide many advantages to help our students throughout their educational experience. I thank Dr. Keck and Leticia Valle for their help in securing this grant for TAMIU, and for their dedication to the students of our community.” “TAMIU has been fortunate to have been blessed with an active TRiO Student Support Services program on campus since 2001. These vital tutoring and support services have assisted almost 800 students, helping them to navigate and succeed in higher education. We are profoundly thankful to Cong. Cuellar for his leadership on this and for his tireless advocacy for our students and all students,” said Dr. Ray Keck III, President of Texas A&M International University.
08.18.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), announced long-awaited renovations to the Lincoln-Juarez International Bridge, also known as Bridge II, which will begin next month thanks to funds he was able to secure during the House Appropriations Committee Fiscal Year 2014 Budget. Brasfield & Gorrie, LLC of Birmingham, Alabama, has been awarded a $62 million contract from the General Services Administration (GSA) and will oversee the project for the Vehicle Processing Facility at the Juarez-Lincoln Bridge. The renovations include a new bus inspection and passenger processing area to include individual bus stalls, pedestrian inspection lanes, waiting area, restrooms, and a canopy for loading and unloading buses. Construction is projected to start in September and the project is scheduled to be completed by Spring 2018. Congressman Cuellar is currently working with GSA to also secure additional funding for renovations to Gateway to the Americas International Bridge, also known as Bridge I, in the near future. These planned renovations will include changes to the exterior of the historic administration building, as well as the interior spaces that will help improve pedestrian flow in a more efficient manner. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Thursday announced a $62 million renovation project for the Lincoln-Juarez International Bridge in Laredo, Texas. L-R: Rep. Henry Cuellar, GSA Regional Administrator Sylvia Hernandez, CBP Director of Field Operations David Higgerson, Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz and Nuevo Laredo Mayor Carlos Canturosas. “This is an enormous federal investment in our community. Our international bridges serve several great purposes: they secure Laredo’s position as a North American leader in trade, they increase tourism in our communities and they’re also an important medium for connecting families across the border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Today’s historic announcement means that these overdue renovations to Bridge II will greatly reduce travel time for international shoppers and travelers who contribute millions of dollars annually to our economy “I thank Sylvia Hernandez, GSA Regional Administrator, and David Higgerson, CBP Director of Field Operations for the Laredo Field Office, for their immeasurable work in obtaining a better blueprint on the format of the construction to allow for an improved flow of pedestrians and noncommercial vehicles. In addition, we will work with the City of Laredo, the City of Nuevo Laredo, CBP, Mexican Customs and the private sector to minimize disruption to the flow of traffic and surrounding businesses during construction.” GSA Regional Administrator Sylvia Hernandez said, “Laredo is a top priority for GSA and represents our vision to make smart, strategic decisions with our agency partners and stakeholders while spurring economic development to local communities. This project will ease the traffic for those who use the crossing and also help CBP in performing their mission to safeguard America’s borders.” "We are extremely excited and pleased to see these much needed updates to our bus processing facility at Lincoln-Juarez Bridge and the improvements to pedestrian processing at Gateway to the Americas Bridge come to fruition," said Director, Field Operations David P. Higgerson, Laredo Field Office. "The ever-growing traffic volumes have far exceeded the limits of the present facilities and we will work hand in glove with our stakeholder partners at the federal, state and local levels to help facilitate traffic flow during the construction. We look forward to seeing and utilizing the finished facilities." International Bridge II ranked the second busiest crossing for buses in Fiscal Year 2012 with an average of 106 buses a day. In 2012 and 2013, International Bridge I was the fourth busiest bridge for privately owned vehicle crossings with 3,364,645 and 3,519,680, respectively. ###
08.18.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced the expansion of health care services for veterans at the Laredo Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Outpatient Clinic. A new partnership between the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System, TriWest and Doctors Hospital of Laredo will allow qualifying Laredo-area veterans to receive inpatient surgical and emergency care services. This partnership brings the convenience of a community hospital within reach to over 5,000 Webb County veterans who will no longer have to travel to San Antonio for their healthcare needs. As per this agreement, Doctors Hospital will notify the VA when a local veteran arrives to the emergency room, or when a veteran arrives as a transfer from the Laredo VA Outpatient clinic. The hospital will then provide in-patient services, emergency room care and advanced radiological services including MRI and CT scans. These new services are in conjunction with existing on-site clinic services, which have recently been expanded to include primary care, dentistry, mental health, women’s health, telemedicine, podiatry, on-board EMS, radiology and laboratory work. With this new agreement, the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic now has partnerships with two Laredo hospitals to make sure veterans get the care they need. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced a new partnership between the Department of Veterans Affairs Texas Valley Coastal Bend and Doctors Hospital of Laredo to provide inpatient services to Webb County Veterans. L-R: Hugo Martinez, Public Affairs Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs; Laredo Mayor Pete Saenz; Rep. Henry Cuellar; Rene Lopez, CEO of Doctors Hospital of Laredo; and Robert Walton, Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs Texas Valley Coastal Bend. "Veterans’ needs have been a priority of mine since being elected into Congress more than 10 years ago. Our veterans have paid a great price to defend our country. They deserve nothing but the best and that means receiving the best healthcare here at home, with their families. “This new partnership with the VA and Doctors Hospital of Laredo is another step to our shared commitment to provide excellent healthcare to our area veterans. I thank the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Director Robert Walton and Doctors Hospital of Laredo CEO Rene Lopez for their hard work and dedication to our local veterans,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “We at the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System are very pleased with this new partnership with Doctors Hospital, as we continue to improve access to care and services for our Veterans in the Laredo area. Our mission to honor our veterans is a noble one, and we are very thankful Mr. Rene Lopez and all the staff at Doctors Hospital for contributing to our mission,” said Robert Walton, Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs Texas Valley Coastal Bend. “We are excited about this opportunity to offer these services to our veterans,” said Rene Lopez, CEO, Doctors Hospital of Laredo. “This is in line with our mission to provide quality care that improves the lives and well-being of people living in our communities.”
08.14.2015	Today, the United States Department of Commerce announced the approval of licenses for swaps of U.S. light crude oil in exchange for imports of heavy Mexican crude oil. Currently, the United States is prohibited from exporting its crude oil due to a crude oil export ban that was established in 1975 and has since hindered the American energy market in light of great advancements in energy exploration. The Department of Commerce was able to approve these licenses as delegated by the President through his authority in the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. The approval of licenses announced today will be mutually beneficial for both countries. Many American petroleum refineries are not fully equipped to process light crude oil, the type that is abundant in shale plays across the United States. On the other hand, Mexico produces great quantities of heavy crude oil while their refineries are better equipped to process lighter crude. The oil swaps will help for production in oil refineries across the U.S. and Mexico. “Texas will gain tremendously from this oil swap agreement. The petroleum industry in Texas, in large part due to shale production, such as the Eagle Ford Shale in my district, has revitalized our nation’s economy,” said Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28). “These swaps will further positively impact energy exploration in Texas and the United States. The U.S. and Mexico have a great relationship when it comes to trade and commerce, and today’s announcement is a clear sign that both countries are eager to further develop their energy sectors. I thank Secretary Penny Pritzker and Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security Eric Hirschhorn, as well as my colleagues Rep. Will Hurd and Rep. Michael McCaul for their important role in securing this agreement.” “An agreement like this is a strong step toward North American energy security, which is an integral part of our National Security. I believe it will open the door for more reforms that move North America towards energy independence,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX23), who spent more than nine years serving as an undercover CIA officer and sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security. “Energy trade is a key component of our economic relationship with Mexico and recent changes in their energy policies have given us an opportunity to strengthen that exchange. The American Energy Renaissance that has flourished in Texas due to Eagle Ford, Permian Basin and Barnett shale exploration will continue to strengthen because of this decision.” # # #
07.30.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar has issued the following statement on the 50th Anniversary of President Lyndon Johnson’s signing of the Social Security Act Amendments of 1965 into law, creating Medicare and Medicaid. Medicare provides health insurance for people age 65 and older, as well as individuals with certain disabilities; while Medicaid is a joint federal-state program that provides health coverage for low-income individuals. “Today marks 50 years of Medicare and Medicaid! Medicare and Medicaid have offered critical health and financial stability for our nation’s seniors, persons with disabilities, and low income Americans. Now, with The Affordable Care Act, many more of my constituents have been able to obtain healthcare. In the past two years I have hosted workshops across the 28th District of Texas to help constituents learn more about their options under the new health insurance marketplace. This year will be no different. I will constantly strive to ensure the people of the 28th District are equipped to navigate the health insurance marketplace and can successfully apply for coverage during open enrollment,” said Congressman Cuellar.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today issued the following statement on passage of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost of Living Adjustment Act of 2015 in the House of Representatives. The legislation would increase the amounts paid to veterans for disability compensation and to their survivors for dependency and indemnity compensation by the same Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) increase that will be payable to Social Security recipients beginning December 1, 2015 “Our veterans served to protect our freedom. We should take every opportunity possible to take care of them and, in many cases, their survivors. This act will not only adjust cost of living, it will also improve other benefits. Veterans seeking disability benefits often seek them for more than one medical condition. This bill requires that veterans receive interim disability payments as each medical condition is confirmed by the VA, rather than waiting until all medical conditions are confirmed. The act will also develop a new Fully Developed Claim (FDC) program offering veterans and survivors up to an extra year of benefit payments, faster decisions from the VA on compensation, pension and survivor benefit claims if they submit all relevant records in their possession and certify that they have no further evidence to submit ,” said Congressman Cuellar.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28), Congressman Michael Conaway (R-TX-11), the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX-10) introduced the bipartisan Student Agriculture Protection Act. The legislation would exempt from taxation the first $5000 in proceeds on the sale of livestock or agricultural projects by Future Farmers of America and 4-H participants. Cuellar: "I have always been a strong supporter of agricultural education. The Student Agriculture Protection Act will encourage students to dedicate themselves to being the next innovators in the agriculture industry. The tax exemption will allow thousands of students who participate in livestock and county fairs across the country each year to take home a larger portion of what they earn." McCaul: “The Student Agriculture Protection Act would help cultivate future generations of American farmers by allowing members of these organizations to keep more of their hard earned money made from the sale of livestock or special projects at county fairs and livestock shows. This will reward students for their hard work and allow the U.S. to remain outfitted with the innovative minds that have allowed us to be the world leader in agriculture.” Conaway: "Organizations like Future Farmers of America and 4-H provide students with invaluable experiences and encourage success through hard work. I’m proud to support legislation that will reward these students for all their efforts, and I hope that it will inspire more students to explore the possibility of a career in agriculture."
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Hidalgo County has received $3.3 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $20 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 Million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Hidalgo County has received over $16.5 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Hidalgo County Sheriff, Eddie Guerra, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2015 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Starr County has received $1.2 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $20 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 Million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Starr County has received over $7.8 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Starr County Sheriff, Rene Fuentes, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2015 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Webb County has received $2.89 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement for equipment and over-time pay. Statewide, Texas received $20 million in law enforcement funding of the $55 Million nationwide. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcement as they work with the federal government to help provide protection of our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I have worked to ensure that the hard working men and women providing services and protection have the resources and support they need to get the job done. Since 2009, Webb County has received over $21.1 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Webb County Sheriff, Martin Cuellar, and the men and women who secure our border communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These $2.893 million will go a long way, as they will allow us to continue our efforts in combating crime and drug trafficking in our area,” said Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “It is through programs such as Operation Stonegarden that we are able to provide a stronger sense of security and safety to those whom we serve. On behalf of all the residents in Webb County, I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for always having our best interest in mind.” The FY 2015 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders.
07.27.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), working with Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Will Hurd (R-TX), announced today the introduction of legislation which will give states more flexibility in how they use federal transportation funds, allowing them to invest more into border infrastructure. “This is an important bill, one that will undoubtedly benefit Laredo and the Rio Grande Valley; as well as border communities across the country. My hometown of Laredo is host to the nation’s largest inland port, which services over 12,000 daily commercial truck crossings and 1,500 daily rail crossings. It is imperative that the transportation infrastructure around our nation’s ports and trade centers, such as the Port of Laredo, are in peak condition to insure our economy keeps moving forward,” Rep. Cuellar said. H.R. 3181 introduced Thursday will create a Coordinated Border Infrastructure (CBI) Reserve Fund creating an explicit avenue through which border states like Texas can reserve up to five percent of statewide Surface Transportation Funds for qualified border infrastructure purposes. This legislation allows stakeholders and border communities to advocate for border infrastructure and provides funding certainty. “International trade and commerce is the life-blood for many cities and small towns in my district,” said Hurd, who represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas, which has more than 820 miles of international border. “Making it easier to safely move goods and services across the Texas-Mexico border will be good for both sides. Putting resources back into the infrastructure that facilitates that movement of goods is a longtime coming and I’m proud to support it.” "Our homeland security starts at our border. By ensuring we are investing in the necessary infrastructure at our borders, we are also keeping our nation safe while continuing to promote American access to the 96% of the world’s consumers that live outside of our country. This legislation promotes security and economic growth, and is especially important for my district which exported $11.5 billion worth of goods and services in 2013. By providing certainty in funding for infrastructure improvements, we will be able to address the problems currently being encountered at the border," said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. Senator Cornyn worked to include similar language in the long-term highway bill currently pending before the Senate. “As the top exporting state in the nation, Texas relies on quality infrastructure along its southern border to help transport more than $100 billion in exported Texas goods to Mexico each year and support hundreds of thousands of Texas jobs. Allowing Border States like Texas more flexibility in the long-term planning of border projects will benefit workers and consumers in our state and across the country,” said Sen. Cornyn. The legislation is receiving support from stakeholders on the border, who understand the importance of having secure and stable routes across the border. "Border wait times at our international land ports of entry are having serious negative impacts to our country's economy. We are thankful for introduction of this legislation and the leadership demonstrated by U.S. Senators Boxer and Cornyn as well as Congressmen Hurd and Cuellar on this issue of vital economic importance. This legislation will provide funds to our border states for needed infrastructure expansion and freight mobility projects located at our international borders," stated Jesse J. Hereford, Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance.
07.16.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, was successful in adding language into the Fiscal Year 2016 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. The language in the bill, which passed Tuesday, would bring more transparency within Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Last year, Congressman Cuellar spoke with CBP port directors to address concerns from citizens in his district about the treatment received by agents at our international ports of entry. Congressman Cuellar was successful in adding language to the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that requires the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection to review training manuals and coursework as well as incident-reporting practices within the agency to making sure that customs and border patrol officers are trained to interact respectfully with those crossing the border. After the discussions, CBP at the South Texas ports of entry initiated the Professionalism, Respect, Integrity, Diversity and Excellence (PRIDE) initiative, which aims to improve the interaction with agents and civilians at our international ports of entry. Through the initiative, Professionalism Service Managers receive and address both positive and negative comments from the public who interact with CBP at the South Texas Port of Entry. Congressman Cuellar also included language to have CBP agents use body-worn cameras while on duty. “Thousands of people legally cross at our international ports of entry daily,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These people are an integral part of our community, family and local economy and deserve to be treated fairly and respectfully by our agents. I look forward to my ongoing partnership with Customs and Border Protection to make sure we bring transparency and fair treatment to the people who are legally crossing our international borders.” In response to Congressman Cuellar’s language, CBP issued the first of three phases of a study to evaluate the feasibility of incorporating body-worn camera technology into the agency’s law enforcement operations at CBP training academies between October and December of 2014. The second phase of the study, which ended in May of this year, evaluated the feasibility of body-worn cameras into the agency’s law enforcement operations. Now, CBP is currently in the third phase of the study and Congressman Cuellar has requested to the Commissioner of CBP that the Laredo Port of Entry be used as a pilot program where agents use the body-worn cameras while conducting daily operations with the public. If approved, the results will be reported back to the House Appropriations Committee. Congressman Cuellar was also successful in passing language into the FY16 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that would ensure transparency in regards to the treatment of immigrant detainees at ICE family detention centers. “When considering the funding of the Department of Homeland Security for FY16, I wanted to ensure that there was language that requires transparency with the way ICE treats detainees,” Congressman Cuellar said. “After hearing reports of inappropriate and demeaning treatment of detainees, I made sure that there was a reporting mechanism in the funding bill.” Within 15 days of enactment, and monthly thereafter, ICE is directed to update the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security on family detention oversight activities; assuring that these families and individuals receive the appropriate care while in detention. Congressman Cuellar also included language to fund the Alternatives to Detention (ATD) program to the level for FY15. ATD places low-risk illegal immigrants under various forms of intensive supervision or electronic monitoring, in lieu of detention, to ensure their appearance for immigration hearings and, in some cases, for their removal. The program reduces the number of detainees in detention centers, while also saving taxpayer money on unnecessary costs of detention.
07.15.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) received the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). This award recognizes Congressman Cuellar’s votes during the 113th Congress which contributed to the protection and enhancement of America’s national parks. NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks Award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA tracked votes for three national park-related votes in the Senate and five in the House of Representatives. To receive the award, senators needed to vote in favor of national parks on at least two scored bills and representatives on at least three scored bills. During the 113th Congress, Congressman Cuellar voted in favor of House Amendment 5 to H.R. 152, Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013; H.R. 1033, American Battlefield Protection Program Amendments Act of 2013; and H.R. 2954, The Public Access and Lands Improvement Act. From left to right: NPCA President & CEO Clark Bunting, Congressman Henry Cuellar and Craig Obey, NPCA Senior VP, Government Affairs “Every American should be proud of the treasures we hold in our National Parks,” said Congressman Cuellar. “National Parks are an important national heritage that allows us to appreciate the natural wonders of our country. I thank the National Parks Conservation Association for bestowing me with this award today.” “It’s an honor to recognize Congressman Henry Cuellar for supporting our national parks on the floor of the House during the 113th Congress,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the 114th Congress works on policies and funding levels impacting our national parks, I look forward to working with Congressman Cuellar to ensure national parks have safe roadways, are well maintained, and have the resources they need to thrive for their upcoming centennial” ### About the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA): Since 1919, the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) has been the leading voice for our national parks. NPCA and its more than one million members and supporters work together to protect and preserve our nation’s natural, historical, and cultural heritage for future generations. For more information, visit www.npca.org. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
07.08.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today helped secure $50 million within the Fiscal Year 2016 Agricultural Appropriations bill to save the citrus industry in Texas. Congressman Cuellar, whose district includes a portion of the Rio Grande Valley—the top citrus-producing area in Texas, understands the importance of the $11.2 billion citrus industry in the United States and how it has been affected by Huanglongbing (HLB), also known as citrus-greening disease, which is lethal to citrus plants, carried by an insect known as the Asian Citrus Psyllid (ACP). HLB is a disease that greens ripe citrus and misshapes the fruit, making it bitter and unmarketable. The disease can kill the trees in as little as five years after being infected and is transmitted by the Asian Citrus Psyllid (ACP). It has devastated groves in all of Florida and has now been detected in Texas groves. Dale Murden of Texas Citrus Mutual, a non-profit trade association representing Texas citrus growers, owns a citrus grove in the Rio Gande Valley and has personally seen the effects of the disease since it was first positively identified in the Valley in 2008. “It is becoming a very wide-spread problem in the Valley… as serious the situation in Florida already is,” Murden said. “Can you imagine the Rio Grande Valley without citrus trees? Because that’s what could happen. Quite frankly, it can wipe this industry out and we’ll never have citrus here again until there’s a cure, and there is no cure,” he added. “This disease has been catastrophic for citrus groves in Florida and threatens the entire industry here in Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These $50 million in federal funds are the highest funding level for citrus pest efforts in an appropriations bill and allow us a fighting chance to save the citrus industry in Texas, as well as the livelihoods of citrus growers all across the Rio Grande Valley. “We must do everything we can to protect citrus in Texas. I thank my fellow South Texas colleagues for their help in securing these funds into the FY16 agriculture appropriations bill.” As part of these $50 million, Congressman Cuellar helped allocate $6.5 million into the bill for the Huanglongbing Multi-Agency Coordination (MAC), a task force specifically targeting the citrus greening crisis. He also secured $43.5 million in federal funds for the Citrus Health Response Program (CHRP), which is a national program critical to combating citrus diseases. Federal funds are used in partnership with other state agriculture departments and citrus industry groups to research, survey and combat both the pest and the disease. ###
07.07.2015	On July 5, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) named the five San Antonio Missions, including the Alamo, as a World Heritage Site. The iconic Spanish missions were built by Franciscan missionaries in the 18th century when San Antonio was part of colonial New Spain and are an example of the interweaving of Spanish and Coahuiltecan cultures. The five missions consist of Mission Concepción, Mission San José, Mission San Juan, Mission Espada and Mission San Antonio de Valero (The Alamo) and embody nearly 300 years of history and culture. They continued to play an important role in early Mexican history and during the struggle for Texas independence. Last December, the San Antonio delegation passed legislation to expand the boundaries of San Antonio Missions National Historical Park. “Congratulations to the city of San Antonio, Bexar County, and all who have been involved in obtaining this high honor. The San Antonio missions embody our rich heritage,” said Congressman Lamar Smith. “These Missions are more than Texas landmarks; they are international treasures that we will continue working to preserve and protect for generations to come.” "The designation of the historic San Antonio missions as a UNESCO World Heritage Site is something all of Texas and the United States should celebrate proudly,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “These missions are a testament to the long and rich history of Texas and its people. They serve as a looking glass into what life was like in colonial New Spain and independent Texas. This designation is also one of personal pride for San Antonians, many of whom are the descendants of the original Coahuiltecan peoples and Spanish immigrants who lived in and around the area.” “I am proud and grateful that UNESCO designated the San Antonio Missions a World Heritage Site,” said Congressman Joaquin Castro. “Today is particularly special for the many San Antonians who have worked for years to make this prestigious honor a reality. Not only does the World Heritage Site designation raise San Antonio’s international profile, it stands to add over a thousand jobs and more than $100 million to our city’s economy. This recognition is just one more reason why folks from around the world should be sure to visit San Antonio and enjoy all our culturally rich city has to offer.” “This success results from years of effort by so many,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett. “Now more people from around the world will come to appreciate our treasure that represents the culture and diversity of San Antonio. What we have long known is officially recognized—our Missions are a part of what is formally called the “patrimony of humankind.” "Texans have long been proud of the rich heritage and culture represented by these missions and we are grateful to see them receiving the international recognition that they are due,” said Congressman Will Hurd. "This decision shines a light on a history and a community which are more than worthy. I look forward to seeing the great benefits that San Antonio will receive as visitors from around the world travel to see these beautiful missions for themselves. My thanks goes to the many individuals and organizations who have worked so hard to make this a reality." # # #
06.29.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced a $250,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration (EDA) to the Laredo Development Foundation (LDF) for the development of their new International Business Assistance Center. Aside from the $250,000 grant from the EDA, the Laredo Development Foundation is matching $75,000 in funds for a total investment of $325,000 that will further develop the International Business Assistance Center. The center will help businesses by promoting international investment and development opportunities in Laredo. The funds will also be used to hire an international marketing manager and a project coordinator for the center in order to foster entrepreneurial development and job creation for the region. LDF will offer small and medium-sized businesses with the equipment, business development expertise, office space, conference rooms and support staff to encourage growth and create jobs. The center will also aim to attract direct foreign investment to Laredo by opening up new markets for local businesses that want to expand into Mexico. It will also help foreign investors and local businesses find federal, state and local incentives. “I congratulate the Laredo Development Foundation and the EDA for investing in this project which I believe will yield lasting economic benefits for the businesses and people of Laredo,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank the efforts of Olivia Varela, LDF Executive Director, and Jorge Ayala with the EDA for helping to secure these federal funds, which are a great economic investment for Laredo.” LDF’s International Business Assistance Center will also work closely with the Small Business Development Center at Texas A&M International University, Laredo Community College, the City of Laredo and the South Texas Workforce Center to develop business-specific trainings and workforce trainings.
06.26.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) issued the following statement regarding today’s Supreme Court ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges. The court ruled 5-4 in favor of marriage equality: “The Supreme Court has ruled that all Americans are entitled to marriage equality under the U.S. Constitution. Today’s 5-4 decision in Obergefell v. Hodges strikes down bans on same-sex marriage and concludes that there is no lawful basis for a State to refuse recognition of a lawful same-sex marriage performed in another State. As of today, all Americans across our nation now have the equal right to marry whom they so choose. This ruling, however, and as Justice Kennedy stressed in his Majority Opinion, does not take away from the First Amendment rights of religious organizations and persons to teach the principles that are so central to their lives and faiths and to continue the family structure they have long revered.”
06.25.2015	The President commends Members of Congress who took important steps this week to ensure that the United States can negotiate and enforce strong, high-standard trade agreements that are good for American workers and our economy. Thanks to the leadership of Rep. Cuellar, workers and businesses in Texas will have more opportunity to compete and win in markets both at home and abroad. With bipartisan support from Congress, Trade Promotion Authority will help America write the rules of our new, global economy so more hardworking Americans can get their products to market. And with Trade Adjustment Assistance, vital support like job-training and community college education will now be available to more than 100,000 workers per year.
06.22.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) Today honored the efforts of nine U.S. Border Patrol agents from the Rio Grande Valley Sector who made split-second decisions that helped save the lives of those in need. Congressman Cuellar met with U.S. Border Patrol Agents at the McAllen Patrol Station on June 22, where he provided them with Congressional Certificates of Recognition and discussed the heroic actions these agents performed while on duty. The agents saved the lives of numerous civilians in the lower Rio Grande Valley area. “These agents went above and beyond their call of duty by risking their own lives to save civilians in need,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These agents are the embodiment of what the U.S. Border Patrol stands for—a federal law enforcement agency that is tasked with protecting our borders while following profound codes of professionalism and care when engaging with civilians and our community.” Congressman Henry Cuellar honored the heroic acts of nine Border Patrol agents from the Rio Grande Valley Sector on June 22. U.S. Border Patrol Agents Agent Jorge A. Perez of the Rio Grande City Station was on patrol on the riverbanks late at night on September 27, 2014 when he noticed two civilians drowning in the Rio Grande. Agent Perez jumped into the river to save both individuals and successfully pulled them to safety. Agent Jairo Colon-Soto of the Rio Grande City Station was on duty near Los Olmo’s Creek in Rio Grande City at approximately 10:15 p.m. on April 10, 2009 when three people jumped into an overflowing creek in an attempt to evade arrest. One individual made it to the other side, but the other two struggled to stay afloat and one eventually disappeared underwater. Agent Colon-Soto jumped into the creek, grabbed one individual and towed him to safety by the edge of the creek. He then swam out a second time and rescued the man who had disappeared under water. The man was unconscious and not breathing. Agent Colon-Soto performed chest compressions and resuscitated the man back to life. Agent Steven Peters of the McAllen Station was patrolling the Rio Grande by boat at approximately 8:45 p.m. on Oct. 26, 2014 when he encountered two people struggling to swim back to Mexico to avoid arrest. Agents threw a lifesaving buoy to help them make it safely to shore, however, one of the individuals began to drown and submerged underwater. Without regard for his own safety, Agent Peters jumped into the water and pulled the immigrant from certain death and safely assisted him to the riverbank. The other individual also made it safely to shore. Agent Oscar Ponce of the McAllen Station was working near Schuerbach Road in Mission when he saved the lives of three immigrants, who had jumped into Inspiration canal in an attempt to avoid apprehension. Agent Ponce jumped into the canal and brought the three individuals to safety. Agents Fernando Galvan Jr. and Arturo Gutierrez of the Harlingen Station saved a man’s life on April 29, 2015. The incident occurred when Harlingen Station agents observed marijuana being loaded into a minivan near the community of El Ranchito, south of San Benito on Military Highway 281. The agents attempted to stop the minivan as it left the area; however, the driver attempted to evade agents and sped away, at which time he lost control and struck a tree, which caused the minivan to catch on fire. Agents Galvan and Gutierrez became first responders to the criminals which certainly would have perished if it were not for the quick reaction from the Agents who extracted one person from the burning vehicle and moved another individual, who had been ejected from the vehicle, to a safer location. Additionally, Supervisory Border Patrol Agents Tomas Lopez and Robert Garofalo as well as Border Patrol Agent Jason Newman assisted with controlling the fire while Agents Galvan and Gutierrez saved the man’s life. They also helped moved the rescued individuals to safer locations and assisted with scene safety.
06.16.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced the successful passage of House Resolution 891, a bill he authored to rename the post office in Floresville as the “Floresville Veterans Post Office Building.” Speaking today on the House Floor, Congressman Cuellar stressed the importance to rename this post office in honor of all veterans, both living and deceased. The post office, located at 141 Paloma Drive, is located across the street from the Frank M. Tejeda Texas State Veteran’s Home, which currently houses 154 area veterans. “It is fitting that we provide this acknowledgment to our Floresville veterans directly across the street from where many of them live,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar speaks on the House Floor on June 15 in support of HR 891, a bill he authored to rename the Floresville post office as the “Floresville Veterans Post Office Building.” During his speech, Congressman Cuellar highlighted several stories about veterans from Floresville, including: · Frank Villarreal, who served in Vietnam with the U.S. Navy Seawolves helicopter squadron. This squadron provided support to the Navy SEALS; and · Pedro Devora and Rufino Gonzalez, both who served on the USS Sangamon in World War II. Both Devora and Gonzalez survived a kamikaze attack and lived long lives in Floresville. “I want to acknowledge all veterans who served and put their country above self and for whom I am recognizing with the renaming of the post office,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill passed the House and is now awaiting approval from the U.S. Senate. View video of Rep. Cuellar speaking in favor of H.R. 891 here: https://youtu.be/fsSCVxdvvOI
06.10.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) issues the following statement in response to U.S. Customs and Border Protection sending two UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters to South Texas following a shooting involving a CBP helicopter on patrol in Laredo on June 5: “CBP plans to send two UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters to south Texas in the wake of last Friday’s helicopter shooting incident. The Blackhawk is armored against small arms fire of the sort used in the recent incident, carries a larger crew than the EC120 helicopter currently used in the area, and is well suited for operating in a higher threat environment. The move is expected to occur this week; CBP continuously reviews the conditions of the border environment and deploys its resources accordingly. I support the men and women of CBP as they protect our Southern border.”
06.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar has issued the following statement regarding news that Lockheed Martin Services, Inc., has been awarded a $34 million budget ceiling increase by the U.S. Air Force to a previously-awarded contract for the Personnel Services Delivery Transformation (PSDT) at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas: "This $34 million budget ceiling increase will be used to support the U. S. Air Force's Life Cycle Management Center, which monitors the life cycle of various munitions and weapons systems at Randolph Air Force Base in San Antonio. This contract is an investment in the military operations at Randolph Air Force Base, but more importantly, for the community at large in San Antonio, fondly referred to as 'Military City, U.S.A.'"
06.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today received the Soaring Eagle Award from Texas Alliance For Patient Access, Texas Medical Liability Trust and Texas Medical Association for his work to fix the broken Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) system. Cuellar played a pivotal role in getting and keeping standard of care language in HR 2, commonly referred to as the ‘Doc Fix’. Cuellar’s successful addition marks the first time Congress has ever passed legislation that provides medical liability protections for physicians. “After lots of hard work, it was a great moment in April when we were able to celebrate the inclusion of the standard of care language in the SGR legislation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The enactment of this legislation permanently fixes the flawed sustainable growth program, ensures state medical malpractice liability laws are not adversely impacted by the federal government, and properly funds community health centers –all wins for Texas patients and doctors. Thank you to Texas Alliance For Patient Access, Texas Medical Liability Trust and Texas Medical Association for this award. I look forward to seeing the positive impact our work has in Texas and around the country.” “It is inspiring to know that one man who sees a problem, and who has the determination to do something about it, can pass legislation in the United States Congress. Your language in HR 2 does so much good for so many, and for that we are immensely grateful,” said Jon Opelt, Executive Director of Texas Alliance For Patient Access.
06.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today issued the following statement following reports that President Obama will nominate Roberta Jacobson, Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs at the Department of State, to serve as the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. “I have been impressed with Ms. Jacobson’s deep knowledge of Mexico and the rest of Latin America and fully support her nomination,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Ms. Jacobson and I have worked together before, including on the Mérida Initiative, and she has proven herself to be an able and effective leader. I know she will serve well as the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, and I look forward to working together to continue to improve and grow the relationship between the U.S. and Mexico.”
06.04.2015	El congresista demócrata por el distrito 28 de Texas, Henry Cuéllar hoy emitió la siguiente declaración después de los informes de que el Presidente Barack Obama nominará a Roberta Jacobson, Secretaria Asistente para Asuntos del Hemisferio Occidental del Departamento de Estado, para servir como Embajadora de Estados Unidos en México. “Estoy impresionado con el profundo conocimiento que tiene la Señora Jacobson sobre México y toda América Latina, también estoy completamente a favor de su nominación,” dijo el congresista Cuéllar. “La Sra. Jacobson y yo hemos trabajado juntos en la Iniciativa Mérida así como en otros asuntos y ha demostrado ser una líder capaz y eficaz. Sé que ella servirá bien como Embajadora de Estados Unidos en México y espero la oportunidad de trabajar juntos para una continua mejora y crecimiento en la relación entre México y Estado Unidos.”
06.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar has issued the following statement regarding news that Lockheed Martin Services, Inc., has been awarded a $34 million budget ceiling increase by the U.S. Air Force to a previously-awarded contract for the Personnel Services Delivery Transformation (PSDT) at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas "This $34 million budget ceiling increase will be used to support the U. S. Air Force's Life Cycle Management Center, which monitors the life cycle of various munitions and weapons systems at Randolph Air Force Base in San Antonio. This contract is an investment in the military operations at Randolph Air Force Base, but more importantly, for the community at large in San Antonio, fondly referred to as 'Military City, U.S.A.'"
05.25.2015	This Memorial Day, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) honored six heroes from Zapata who served honorably in the United States Armed Forces during World War II. In March, Congressman Cuellar recognized brothers Teodoro, Leopoldo, Antonio, Anselmo, Filiberto, Jr. and Jose Manuel Treviño with a speech on floor the U.S. House of Representatives in Washington, D.C. Congressman Cuellar also presented six American flags that were flown over the U.S. Capitol to the families of the Treviño brothers during today’s ceremony in Zapata. Combined, the six brothers served a total of fifteen and a half years. All were honorably discharged towards the end of the war and returned to Zapata to start their own families. The Treviño brothers were born to Filiberto and Luisa Cuellar Treviño. During World War II, Teodoro, the eldest, served in the Medical Corps in Bombay, India, as a trained surgical technician and treated wounded American soldiers. Leopoldo served in the Field Artillery and was stationed in Okinawa while preparing for the invasion of Japan. Antonio served in the Coastal Artillery and took part in the invasion of Normandy and the invasion of France, Belgium, the Rhineland and into Germany. Anselmo served in the Engineer Corps for five and a half months before being honorably discharged due to a leg injury. Filiberto, Jr., served in the U.S. Army Air Corps. While at sea, his ship was harassed by German submarines. He was also stationed in England where he unloaded bombs and ammunition from trucks preparing for the invasion of Normandy and was part of the liberation of Berlin. And Jose Manuel, the youngest of the brothers, served in the Infantry and was part of the occupation forces in Berlin that oversaw the liberation of the concentration camps and the release of the American prisoners of war. “The Treviño brothers faced tremendous obstacles while at war and it’s amazing that all were able to honorably serve and return home to Zapata,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These brothers had an immense sense of family and are an inspiration to us all. Their courage and dedication to country are timeless examples of what it really means to be an American. We honor the Treviño brothers today and always for their many sacrifices.” Family members, including children and grandchildren, shared stories of the Treviño brothers, true American heroes, while county officials honored their service to our country.
05.25.2015	On Saturday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and representatives from Lackland Air Force Base Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD) Team, San Antonio River Authority, Boeing, Thermo-Fisher Scientific, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, and the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, among other organizations spoke to students, parents and the greater Northeast San Antonio community on the opportunities associated with careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). The first annual STEM Connector event was sponsored by Judson Independent School District and hosted at Northeast Lakeview College. Congressman Cuellar delivered remarks to students on May 23 on the importance of STEM fields and continuing their higher education. Congressman Cuellar regularly hosts yearly STEM event throughout the 28th Congressional District of Texas. “Today we were able to expose hundreds of area students to the wonders of science, technology, engineering and math. It is projected that nine out of ten of the fastest-growing occupations in the near future will require at least a bachelor’s degree and will require significant scientific or mathematical training. That is why we need to expose and educate our students to the opportunities in STEM fields,” said Congressman Cuellar. According to data collected by Workforce Solutions Alamo, between now and 2020, STEM-related jobs are expected to grow by 9.5 percent in Bexar County. More women and minorities are also needed to bring more diversity to these innovative fields. The events highlighted in today’s STEM Connector are designed to peak the students’ curiosity with examples of work in aeronautical engineering, medical technology, urban planning, government agencies, climatology, healthcare, agriculture and other cutting-edge career opportunities.
05.19.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) last week was successful in adding important language in the Fiscal Year 2016 appropriations bill for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations (T-HUD) that specifies that freight corridors stretch all the way to their land ports of entry at the border. The addition of this language adds land ports to the list of critical infrastructure projects, which allows inland ports to now be funded under the National Infrastructure Investment. “Investing more money to expand and improve inland port infrastructure along the border will improve our freight corridors and allow more commercial traffic through our ports, which in turn creates more jobs, and spurs economic growth,” Congressman Cuellar said. “An average of 2.8 million trucks pass through the Laredo port every single year—and that’s just Laredo, there are ports all along the border that bring millions of dollars of commerce to our communities daily. It’s important for the efficiency of all inland ports, as well as the economy of their regions to ensure the ports are well-funded.” “The Border Trade Alliance applauds Congressman Cuellar’s efforts to ensure that trade corridors are defined as stretching all the way to the international border,” Border Trade Alliance Chairman Jesse Hereford said. “Our ports of entry with our trade partners Canada and Mexico are the starting points for the transit of freight throughout the U.S. and are vitally important to the competitiveness of the entire country. Making clear that trade corridors begin at the ports is a critical step in driving future infrastructure investment in the border regions. Rep. Cuellar deserves kudos from the whole cross-border trade community.” The language Cuellar successfully included in the T-HUD FY2016 appropriations bill specifies that freight corridors go all the way until the Mexico border, and adds land ports of entry to the list of critical areas that need to be preserved, expanded, and improved. This addition specifies that land ports of entry, in addition to highway and bridge projects, transit projects, freight rail projects, and other port infrastructure investments can be funded under the National Infrastructure Investment and it highlights these projects as important to the United States.
05.11.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Under Secretary Lisa Mensah and community leaders today in Floresville to announce $9.4 million in federal funds to improve the water and wastewater system for the City of Floresville. This funding is a result of “Build Out Texas,” a new initiative designed to improve critical infrastructure in Texas. This award is part of a nearly $30 million USDA Rural Development investment in Texas in which the City of Floresville and 14 other recipients in the state will receive funding to improve their water and wastewater systems. “These federal funds are an important investment for the future of Floresville,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Citizens will soon benefit from improved water and waste water systems, which in turn will allow the city to continue to grow by having the capacity to accommodate new residents and businesses.” The USDA Rural Development provided a $1,789,000 grant and a $7,495,000 loan to help fund this project. The remaining $180,000 was contributed by the City of Floresville. The total project cost will be $9,473,000. “USDA is your partner in helping to provide safe, reliable drinking water and wastewater management to rural Texas”, said USDA Rural Development Under Secretary Lisa Mensah. “This funding will improve the quality of life for residents by securing public health, creating jobs, and opening the door for even more opportunities in Floresville.” The funds will be used to modernize the waste water treatment plant and construct two new lift stations as well as new collection lines. Once complete, Floresville will have a brand new, state-of-the-art water treatment plant which will better protect the health and welfare of Floresville residents by reducing the number of pollutants in streams and prevent sewage overflow.
05.11.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Under Secretary Lisa Mensah today announced that Encinal Water Supply Corporation will receive $30,000 in federal funds to complete a Preliminary Engineering Report and Environmental Report. The reports are required for the city to complete an application to apply for financial assistance from USDA Rural Development for water system improvements. “These federal funds are an important investment for the future of Encinal Water Supply Corporation and its water systems which are crucial to the community’s families and businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Special thanks to Undersecretary Lisa Mensah and State Director Paco Valentin for joining me today for this announcement. The ability to apply for financial assistance from USDA is crucial for the future of Encinal’s water system, and this is a huge step towards getting that assistance.” Encinal Water Supply Corporation hopes to use the reports to get financial aid to replace old undersized water lines and add new fire hydrants.
05.11.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Under Secretary Lisa Mensah today announced that the City of Poteet will receive $30,000 in federal funds to complete a Preliminary Engineering Report and Environmental Report. The reports are required for the city to complete an application to apply for financial assistance from USDA Rural Development for water system improvements. “These federal funds are an important investment for the future of Poteet and its water systems which are crucial to the community’s families and businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The ability to apply for financial assistance from USDA is crucial for the future of the Poteet’s water system, and this is a huge step towards getting that assistance.” The USDA Rural Development provided a $30,000 grant, and the City of Poteet is contributing $10,000 for a total for $40,000 to complete the Preliminary Engineering Report and Environmental Report.
05.08.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today delivered books from the Library of Congress to children at Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary School. Children had the chance to choose any books they liked which included an array of topics, including fiction, non-fiction, children’s novels, and general reading material. Congressman Henry Cuellar provided over 100 books from the Library of Congress to children at Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary on Friday. Congressman Henry Cuellar met with students and teachers at Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary on Friday, where he donated over 100 books of various genres from the Library of Congress. Congressman Henry Cuellar, joined by educators Ms. Rebecca Briones (left) and Mrs. Roxanne Leal (right), explains the importance of reading and performing well in school to students Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary and on Friday. Students from Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary sign their names on a thank you message for Congressman Henry Cuellar on Friday, where they received books from the Library of Congress learned the importance of reading and doing well in school. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
05.06.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Tuesday helped unveil improvements made to the McAllen International Airport that were part of a $26.5 million partnership between the federal government and the City of McAllen. With the funds, more than 55,000 square feet were added to the existing 45,000 square-foot facility. This brings the total square footage to more than 100,000. This expansion also will alleviate the overcrowding at the post-security seating area. “Anyone who has used the airport in the summer knows how crowded it gets,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And with summer right around the corner, these improvements could not have come at a better time. I thank Mayor Darling, Congressman Ruben Hinojosa and the City of McAllen Council for their help in this combined effort. These improvements will allow the McAllen International Airport to continue adding aviation services for this rapidly-growing region.” Also built was a terminal gate to increase the airport’s passenger capacity and a building to house the Checked Baggage Inspection System. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Passenger Screening Area was also expanded with room for additional screening lanes and new amenities were added to increase customer satisfaction and comfort. “The modernization of the airport accomplishes three major objectives,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It will facilitate better travel for passengers; it will increase capacity of passengers; and above all, it will provide better security for all travelers.” “The McAllen International Airport is a key component for economic development and logistics in the Rio Grande Valley,” said McAllen Mayor Jim Darling. “The new expansion also makes it one of the nicest facilities you’ll see in the state. I’m proud to have such a fantastic airport in our city where we catch direct flights every day to cities like Houston, DFW, Mexico City and Las Vegas.” “We could not be more proud to offer such a great facility to all of our McAllen, regional and international passengers,” said McAllen Aviation Director Elizabeth Suarez. “The facility’s growth will not only allow the airport to continue providing great customer service to our current users, but it allow us to attract new passengers and become a key tool for attracting new air service development opportunities.” Of the total amount invested in the expansion and renovations, $12.4 million were federal grants provided by the Federal Aviation Administration and the TSA. The City of McAllen contributed the remaining $14.1 million.
05.06.2015	Surrounded by Starr County Veterans, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) on Tuesday announced the expansion of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program for eligible veterans who need medical assistance. Congressman Cuellar explained that under the expansion of these services, veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility may use a closer medical facility as long as they receive preauthorization from TriWest, the provider of services for the VA. “It isn’t fair for many of these veterans to travel many miles just to get medical attention,” said Congressman Cuellar. “From now on, if a veteran lives farther than 40 miles from a VA clinic, all they have to do is get preauthorization from TriWest to visit another facility and receive the care they deserve. This means that veterans in Starr County can now get the services they need, and deserve, here at home.” For example, if a veteran lives in Rio Grande City, he or she has to travel to the VA clinic in McAllen to receive medical attention. Under these new services, if the veteran lives more than 40 miles away from this facility, all he or she has to do is call TriWest to get preauthorization and visit a nearer hospital or clinic that is part of their network. The 40-mile calculation is based on the number of miles the veteran has to physically drive to get to the nearest VA Clinic. The 40-mile straight-line distance is no longer used to calculate the length of travel. For more information on the First Choice Program or if a veteran does not remember receiving a card or has questions of the services, they can call 1-866-606-8198. More information is also available by visiting www.va.gov/opa/choiceact
05.06.2015	– Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) spoke with Rex Lee Jim, Vice President of the Navajo Nation, David M. Brown, J.D., a graduate student at Harvard Medical School Global Health Delivery Program, as well as representatives from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) in Austin, and Zapata County at the Zapata County Technical and Advanced Education Center (ZTAC) in Zapata, Texas, on Tuesday to discuss the process behind building the ZTAC facility and the opportunities it has allotted the residents of area. The Navajo Nation plans to replicate the success of the ZTAC by building a similar facility within the Navajo Reservation of New Mexico. In 2007, Congressman Cuellar announced a $1 million grant from the EDA to build a state-of-the-art modern facility for the benefit of the people of Zapata. Combined with efforts and investments from federal, state and local partners, the ZTAC was built and officially opened its doors in 2011 and has been used to provide educational and training opportunities for the residents of Zapata County and the surrounding area. "I'm glad the Navajo Nation wants to replicate the success we have had here in Zapata with the ZTAC," said Congressman Cuellar. "This facility has given the community more choices and opportunities to educate and train both their students and their workforce. It is one of the best investments we have made for the people of Zapata." During the summer, an average of 90 students take college courses at the ZTAC in subjects ranging from English, history, Texas and U.S. history and math from Laredo Community College via videoconferencing and in-person with adjunct professors. It has also offered varied classes with Texas A&M International University, Texas A&M University and Texas State Technical College. Additionally, the Zapata County Independent School District offers college preparatory courses for high school students, who can earn up to 24 hours of college credit by the time they graduate. The facility also serves as a community center for various meetings, trainings and workshops, including outreach and enrollment events for the Affordable Care Act sponsored by Congressman Cuellar. The Texas Commission on Law Enforcement also uses the facility to train local officers, and the Mexican Consulate uses the facility to help provide information and promote wellness for Mexican nationals living in Zapata County. The Navajo Nation is exploring building a facility within the Navajo reservation in New Mexico based on the ZTAC model that will serve to educate and train people in the areas of healthcare and other disciplines. "Job skill training for Navajo healthcare workers in high-growth industry sectors such as Community Health Workers and Registered Nurses, provides good paying jobs for skilled workers and strengthens healthcare delivery systems for the people of the Navajo Nation," said David M. Brown, J.D., Inaugural Dean for ZTAC (2010-2013) and Masters of Medical Science Degree Candidate at Harvard Medical School.
05.06.2015	Surrounded by Zapata County Veterans, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) on Tuesday announced the expansion of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Choice Program for eligible veterans who need medical assistance. Congressman Cuellar explained that under the expansion of these services, veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility may use a closer medical facility as long as they receive preauthorization from TriWest, the provider of services for the VA. “It isn’t fair for many of these veterans to travel many miles just to get medical attention,” said Congressman Cuellar. “From now on, if a veteran lives farther than 40 miles from a VA clinic, all they have to do is get preauthorization from TriWest to visit another facility and receive the care they deserve. This means that veterans in Zapata County can now get the services they need, and deserve, here at home.” For example, if a veteran lives in Zapata, he or she has to travel to the VA clinic in Laredo to receive medical attention. Under these new services, if the veteran lives more than 40 miles away from this facility, all he or she has to do is call TriWest to get preauthorization and visit a nearer hospital or clinic that is part of their network. The 40-mile calculation is based on the number of miles the veteran has to physically drive to get to the nearest VA Clinic. The 40-mile straight-line distance is no longer used to calculate the length of travel. For more information on the First Choice Program or if a veteran does not remember receiving a card or has questions of the services, they can call 1-866-606-8198. More information is also available by visiting www.va.gov/opa/choiceact
04.30.2015	Following up on a request from House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX10) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) today released a report following a review of federal government efforts to identify and address property damage to private lands and infrastructure that occurs along the United States-Mexico border, as a result of illegal immigration, contraband smuggling, and the subsequent law enforcement pursuits. In the report, GAO recommends more training for CBP Border Patrol agents on how to interact with the ranching community and how to leave a minimal footprint when entering private property. Furthermore, GAO recommends tracking and record keeping of that training which is not currently required. "Private property owners along our nation's southwest border know better than anyone the consequences of a porous border,” Chairman McCaul said. “Farmers, ranchers, and private citizens along the border live in a state of continual fear and frustration over the constant flow of illegal border crossers, many of whom have no regard for private property and cause expensive damage. I’ve had the opportunity to meet with many of these landowners and one thing is clear: they, along with a majority of Americans, want Congress to take meaningful steps to secure the border once and for all. Private property owners shouldn’t have to shoulder the daily costs of this administration’s failure to secure our borders. The GAO’s findings only reconfirms what we already knew, the time for border security is now." “I want to thank GAO for their work on this report. The training and record keeping recommendations are a good first step, but our work is not done,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Land owners along the border in Texas are seeing significant damage to their properties through no fault of their own. I will continue to work with federal, state and local law enforcement officials, farmers and ranchers, and Susan Durham at the South Texans’ Property Rights Association, as well as border communities to find ways to compensate private landowners for damages incurred.” Because law enforcement pursuits of undocumented immigrants, illegal human and vehicle traffic, waste, and trash discarded by illegal immigrants and other cross-border violators visibly affect the land and come at a substantial cost to the property owner, Cuellar and McCaul wrote a letter requesting the review by GAO in June of 2013 as part of first steps toward providing landowners with compensation for damages or private property due to criminal activity by undocumented immigrants.
04.30.2015	The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today awarded Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) the prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award during a reception at the Chamber’s Capitol Hill office in Washington, D.C., for his support of key business legislation during the second session of the 113th Congress. The award is given to members of Congress who have cast votes that help the economy grow and create new jobs. “Business is the backbone of our great country, and my district is home to some of the largest trading ports in the country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue supporting legislation that supports a healthy economy and the creation of good jobs. I thank the U.S. Chamber for recognizing my legislation in the House and awarding me with the ‘Spirit of Enterprise’ award for the 113th Congress.” Pictured left is Representative Cuellar and R. Bruce Josten, Executive Vice President of Government Affairs for U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber designates “key votes” in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate chamber as the recorded votes on issues that have a direct impact on businesses. Among the issues the Chamber scored this year were terrorism risk insurance, tax extenders, and the CROmnibus. It also scored votes to ensure free speech, fund transportation and infrastructure and further ensure U.S. energy independence. “For 50 years, through our How They Voted scorecard, the U.S. Chamber has been recognizing legislators from both sides of the aisle who have worked to pass legislation and enact policies that bolster our country’s economy, create jobs and keep our nation’s spirit of enterprise alive,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise award honors those members of Congress like Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) who has recognized the need and shown a commitment to pro-growth policies in the second session of the 113th Congress.” This is the 27th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress and the 50th year of officially scoring Congress. The Spirit of Enterprise award is given annually by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication, How They Voted. Congressman Cuellar has an extensive record of supporting local business and job growth and has received the Spirit of Enterprise award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce nine times since 2005. ###
04.25.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced Erika Escamilla, a senior at United High in Laredo, as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Texas’ 28th congressional district. Her winning entry is a beautiful pencil portrait of her grandmother entitled “Mi Abuela,” (my grandmother). The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete to display their work in the United States Capitol Building. Each member of Congress has the opportunity to host a local competition among high school students and select the winning entry. Escamilla’s piece was chosen out of 92 submissions by high school students from all over Texas’ 28th congressional district, which spans from southeast San Antonio to Laredo and on to Mission, Texas, in the Rio Grande Valley. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) on Friday announced United High School senior Erika Escamilla as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Texas Congressional District 28. (From left to right are Roberto J. Santos, Superintendent for United I.S.D.; Laura R. Salido, art teacher at United High; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Erika Escamilla, United High senior; and Alberto Aleman, Jr., Principal of United High School. “I congratulate Ms. Escamilla on her winning art piece, a stunning portrait of her grandmother. There were so many great submissions this year and great examples of talent in District 28,” said Cuellar. “I look forward to welcoming Ms. Escamilla to Washington, D.C. and hope she continues to develop her creativity and talents to achieve success in her career.” “Congratulations to Erika Escamilla, winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition sponsored by the Honorable Congressman Henry Cuellar,” said Alberto Aleman, Jr., principle of United High School. “Erika is a senior at United High School. She is an art student in Mrs. Laura Salido’s art class. We are very proud of Erika for winning this prestigious competition. Her talents, dedication to her studies, excellent character and continuous improvement to her artistic skills will bring Erika continued success in all her endeavors.” “Ever since she was a child, Erika has always loved to draw,” said Erika Elizondo, mother of Erika Escamilla. “She has never taken any formal art classes except for the one this semester with her teacher, Ms. Salido. She has a natural talent and is very determined in all her school subjects. She has won several art competitions. We thank Congressman Cuellar for this important opportunity.” “It is with great honor and a pleasure to have been Erika Escamilla’s Art Teacher,” said Laura R. Salido, art teacher at United High School. “We, here at United High School are so proud of all of Erika’s accomplishments. The word that most exemplifies Ms. Escamilla is altruistic. Erica is good-natured and does for everyone without thinking of herself. Her studies, as well as her family, always come first. She is hard working, so well-liked by her peers, dedicated, friendly, and has no limits to what she can accomplish.” As the winner of the art competition, Escamilla is invited to fly to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, in late June to attend an awards ceremony and reception where her artwork will be displayed. She will have the opportunity to spend time with Congressman Cuellar and tour our nation’s capital to get a first-hand experience of what happens in Congress. First launched in 1982, this year marks the 33th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, more than 650,000 high school students have been involved in the program. For more information, visit http://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/.
04.25.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today the acceptance of United High School student Isidro Alaniz Jr., son of Isidro “Chilo” and Elia Alaniz, into the United States Military Academy at West Point. Isidro Alaniz, Jr. (center) signs an Oath of Allegiance on Friday at United High School. Alaniz was accepted into the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. (From left to right are Isidro Alaniz, District Attorney for Webb and Zapata Counties; Capt. C. J. Burgin, State Coordinator for the U.S. Army West Point Academy; Isidro Alaniz Jr., Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28); and Elia P. Alaniz. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Isidro’s exemplary test scores and his outstanding nomination application made him an ideal candidate, and one I trust will make Laredo proud as he serves our nation. I’m grateful for Isidro’s commitment to our country and look forward to following his career.” “The entire Alaniz Family is tremendously proud of Isidro’s decision to serve his Country. We are very grateful to Congressman Cuellar for his nomination of Isidro and helping make his dream a reality,” said Isidro “Chilo” Alaniz, District Attorney for Webb and Zapata Counties and father of Isidro, Jr. In addition to his outstanding grades and test scores, Isidro has an impressive resume of extracurricular activities that include selection into the National Honor Society, the Future Farmers of America (FFA), varsity football, varsity track, St. Patrick’s Catholic Church Confirmation Ministry and volunteering for many non-profit organizations. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities, and personal essays. Final acceptance decisions are made by the service academy.
04.25.2015	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced Erika Escamilla, a senior at United High in Laredo, as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Texas’ 28th congressional district. Her winning entry is a beautiful pencil portrait of her grandmother entitled “Mi Abuela,” (my grandmother). The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete to display their work in the United States Capitol Building. Each member of Congress has the opportunity to host a local competition among high school students and select the winning entry. Escamilla’s piece was chosen out of 92 submissions by high school students from all over Texas’ 28th congressional district, which spans from southeast San Antonio to Laredo and on to Mission, Texas, in the Rio Grande Valley. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) on Friday announced United High School senior Erika Escamilla as the winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for Texas Congressional District 28. (From left to right are Roberto J. Santos, Superintendent for United I.S.D.; Laura R. Salido, art teacher at United High; Congressman Henry Cuellar; Erika Escamilla, United High senior; and Alberto Aleman, Jr., Principal of United High School. “I congratulate Ms. Escamilla on her winning art piece, a stunning portrait of her grandmother. There were so many great submissions this year and great examples of talent in District 28,” said Cuellar. “I look forward to welcoming Ms. Escamilla to Washington, D.C. and hope she continues to develop her creativity and talents to achieve success in her career.” “Congratulations to Erika Escamilla, winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition sponsored by the Honorable Congressman Henry Cuellar,” said Alberto Aleman, Jr., principle of United High School. “Erika is a senior at United High School. She is an art student in Mrs. Laura Salido’s art class. We are very proud of Erika for winning this prestigious competition. Her talents, dedication to her studies, excellent character and continuous improvement to her artistic skills will bring Erika continued success in all her endeavors.” “Ever since she was a child, Erika has always loved to draw,” said Erika Elizondo, mother of Erika Escamilla. “She has never taken any formal art classes except for the one this semester with her teacher, Ms. Salido. She has a natural talent and is very determined in all her school subjects. She has won several art competitions. We thank Congressman Cuellar for this important opportunity.” “It is with great honor and a pleasure to have been Erika Escamilla’s Art Teacher,” said Laura R. Salido, art teacher at United High School. “We, here at United High School are so proud of all of Erika’s accomplishments. The word that most exemplifies Ms. Escamilla is altruistic. Erica is good-natured and does for everyone without thinking of herself. Her studies, as well as her family, always come first. She is hard working, so well-liked by her peers, dedicated, friendly, and has no limits to what she can accomplish.” As the winner of the art competition, Escamilla is invited to fly to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, in late June to attend an awards ceremony and reception where her artwork will be displayed. She will have the opportunity to spend time with Congressman Cuellar and tour our nation’s capital to get a first-hand experience of what happens in Congress. First launched in 1982, this year marks the 33th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, more than 650,000 high school students have been involved in the program. For more information, visit http://www.house.gov/content/educate/art_competition/.
04.23.2015	For Immediate Release: April 23, 2015 Contacts: Sean Brown (Rep. Barton) 202-225-2002 Kirsten Hartman (Rep. Cuellar) 202-225-1640​ A bill to end the ban on crude oil exports, which was originally introduced earlier this year by Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), continues to gain supporters. Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) signed on as a co-sponsor Thursday morning making the legislative effort bipartisan. Rep. Barton issued the following statement after speaking to Rep. Cuellar “I am excited to have Congressman Cuellar co-sponsor HR 702. This common-sense, straight forward and now bipartisan bill simply repeals the authority to restrict the export of crude oil. Support of this bill shouldn’t be based on party affiliation; it should be based on facts.” Cuellar echoed those thoughts. “Oil and energy technology has transformed over recent decades, yet we still have laws on the books from the 70’s governing crude oil—it just doesn’t make sense,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It’s time for the crude oil ban to be lifted, allowing the U.S. to compete in the global marketplace and reap the benefits of doing so, including hundreds of thousands of jobs—many of which will be in Texas. While I work with my friends across the aisle like Congressman Barton to ensure that the current, outdated bans on oil exports are lifted, I will also fight to ensure America’s refineries have equal access to American oil— we cannot enact legislation that benefits only one portion of the energy sector while disadvantaging another to the benefit of foreign competitors. “My sincere thanks to Congressman Barton for his leadership on this bipartisan issue, I look forward to working together towards to the goal of free trade and free markets—that is what is best for America and for Texas.” Barton also spoke about the importance of this legislation. “The 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports is wreaking havoc in today’s world. In Texas alone, it has caused a domino effect that has put tens of thousands of people out of work and left local communities scrambling to make up for lost oil and gas tax revenue. This ban is hurting our constituents, our cities and our country. “But this bill changes all of that. Experts say allowing the export of our oil will create nearly 630,000 jobs in the next 4 years and could lower prices at the pump by as much as 13 cents per gallon. “Congressman Cuellar’s co-sponsorship is proof of a broadening agreement that maintaining the ban is bad for business and bad for our nation. It is up to this Congress to examine the issue and move towards a better policy that reflects the reality of America today, not the America of 1975. It is a win, win, win—internationally, domestically, and economically.” Co-sponsors of the legislation now include, Reps. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) Jim Bridenstine (OK-01), John Carter (TX-31), Steve Chabot (OH-01), Michael Conaway (TX-11), Kevin Cramer (ND-AL), Bill Flores (TX-17), Trent Franks (AZ-08), Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), French Hill (AR-2), Kenny Marchant (TX-19), Markwayne Mullin (OK-02), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Robert Pittenger (NC-09), Steve Pearce (NM-02), Ted Poe (TX-02), Matt Salmon (AZ-05) and Joe Wilson (SC-02). A complete copy of the legislation can be found by clicking here.
04.22.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today released the following statement after co-sponsoring the bipartisan, bicameral Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) last week. The legislation would establish rules for international trade negotiations that will boost exports and grow the American and Texas economies. Cuellar was the first Democrat to formally back the legislation when he signed on as a co-sponsor on Friday, April 17. “This TPA bill was constructed by both Democrats and Republicans working together and will bring a host of benefits to our country, including boosting American exports, creating better jobs with bigger paychecks, and helping facilitate good relationships with foreign nations –it’s a no brainer,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That’s why I stepped up to co-sponsor this legislation, and am eagerly looking forward to its passage so communities can reap the benefits of the boost to our economy that expanded trade will bring, not just in Texas, but around the entire country.” Cuellar issued a statement of support for the legislation last week following its introduction, highlighting the benefits the legislation brings to states like Texas. The press release from Hatch, Wyden and Ryan can be found HERE. The official statement by the President on the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 can be found HERE.
04.20.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today issued the following statement encouraging the lift of the U.S. crude oil export ban, which would remove all restrictions on the export of crude oil from the United States, which would spur economic growth, continue to move our nation towards energy security, and create hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country. “Oil and energy technology has improved drastically over recent decades, yet we still have laws on the books from 40 years ago governing this resource,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It’s time the crude oil ban is lifted, allowing the U.S. to compete in the global marketplace and reap the benefits of doing so, including hundreds of thousands of jobs—many of which right at home in Texas. While I work with my friends across the aisle so that the current, outdated bans on oil exports are lifted, I will also fight to ensure America’s refineries have equal access to American oil— we cannot enact legislation that benefits only one portion of the energy sector while disadvantaging another to the benefit of foreign competitors. Free trade and free markets are the goal--that is what is best for America and for Texas.”
04.17.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) with La Vernia Mayor Robert Gregory and city council members today unveiled the new Water Well 6 in the city of La Vernia. In 2010, Cuellar included language in the Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill, which directed the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to provide $500,000 in federal funding for a new water well in La Vernia. The well is drilled to a depth of approximately 1,000 feet and a coated casing will help prevent corrosion, which deteriorated the previous well. Congressman Henry Cuellar and officials from the City of La Vernia gather during a ribbon-cutting ceremony at La Vernia City Hall for a new water well that will provide clean drinking water to current and future residents. “I thank Mayor Gregory and the City of La Vernia as well as the countless engineers, construction workers and others who helped to make this water well a reality. I take the health and well-being of my constituents very seriously and this federal investment in La Vernia will enable the community to grow and prosper while providing safe and reliable drinking water to current and future residents,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This water well is dedicated to the citizens of the City of La Vernia,” said Robert Gregory, mayor of La Vernia. “This is the first phase of creating a sustainable source of water for many years to come. This was made possible by the efforts of Congressman Henry Cuellar and his assistance with the city obtaining a federal grant to help fund the project. Many city council members spent hundreds of hours on this project to see it through to its fruition. This will benefit our citizens as well as being a vehicle for future economic development. As responsible stewards it is incumbent upon us to continue to diversify different water sources as well as promote conservation of natural resources. Again we thank all those who contributed to the success of this project and future projects to come.”
04.16.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today issued the following statement following the introduction of a bipartisan, bicameral Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) by Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). The legislation would establish rules for international trade negotiations that will boost exports and grow the American and Texas economies. “The advancement of new trade policies will expand opportunities for American businesses and workers in a way that is extremely beneficial for our economy, and I look forward to the opportunity to vote for this important, bipartisan TPA legislation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Reaching across our borders to partners like Mexico brings more jobs and bigger paychecks to states like Texas.”
04.10.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that border communities affected by the humanitarian crisis that developed last year as a result of an influx of unaccompanied minors crossing the border into the United States will be eligible for financial reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “As someone who lives here in Laredo myself, I know all too well that communities along the border are responsible for dealing with a lot of important and expensive challenges like providing humanitarian relief to children who have come to our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It’s important that the federal government mitigate these expenses and provide resources to assist with handling the issues that are unique to the cities and counties along border. I want to thank Senator John Cornyn and Chairman John Carter for working with me on a bipartisan solution to this problem.” Law enforcement, non-profits, religious, governmental and other community partners who incurred unexpected costs due to the surge will be able to apply for reimbursements due to an addition Cuellar included in the FY2015 Department of Homeland Security funding bill. The language adds a provision which makes costs of providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied alien children and to alien adults and their minor children eligible for reimbursement under certain Homeland Security grants to Southwest border recipients for fiscal years 2013 and 2014. The influx of unaccompanied alien children and families that came across the Southwest border overwhelmed federal resources and put a burden on state and local jurisdictions, particularly small counties, cities, and non-profits along the border. Awards may be used for reimbursement of costs related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and families, including costs for food, water, hygiene products, medicine, medical supplies and temporary housing, as well as costs for transportation to and from temporary housing or to permanent housing. This is part of a continued effort by Cuellar to ensure local communities along the border receive the reimbursements and support they need to address the humanitarian crisis that occurred due to unaccompanied minors crossing the border. Last July, the Appropriations Committee included language to address reimbursements in response to Cuellar’s request to Chairman Hal Rodgers to provide resources and assist with costs related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and family units who have entered the United States. Last year, Cuellar also sent a letter to FEMA requesting reimbursements for local governments and law enforcement that bear undue burdens along the border and has worked with the FEMA Grant Directorate and Texas Department of Public Safety to increase funding to border communities.
04.07.2015	MISSION, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that border communities affected by the humanitarian crisis that developed last year as a result of an influx of unaccompanied minors crossing the border into the United States will be eligible for financial reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “As my district knows all too well, communities along the border are responsible for dealing with a lot of important and expensive problems like providing humanitarian relief to children who have come to our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It’s important that the federal government mitigate these expenses and provide resources to assist with handling the issues that are unique to the cities and counties along border.” Law enforcement, non-profits, religious, governmental and other community partners who incurred unexpected costs due to the surge will be able to apply for reimbursements due to an addition Cuellar included in the FY2015 Department of Homeland Security funding bill. The language adds a provision which makes costs of providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied alien children and to alien adults and their minor children eligible for reimbursement under certain Homeland Security grants to Southwest border recipients for fiscal years 2013 and 2014. The influx of unaccompanied alien children and families that came across the Southwest border overwhelmed federal resources and put a burden on state and local jurisdictions, particularly small counties, cities, and non-profits along the border. Awards may use grant funds for costs, or reimbursement of costs, related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and families, including immediate care and transportation costs. This is part of a continued effort by Cuellar to ensure local communities along the border receive the reimbursements and support they need to address the humanitarian crisis that occurred due to unaccompanied minors crossing the border. Last July, the Appropriations Committee included language to address reimbursements in response to Cuellar’s request to Chairman Hal Rodgers to provide resources and assist with costs related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and family units who have entered the United States. Last year, Cuellar also sent a letter to FEMA requesting reimbursements for local governments and law enforcement that bear undue burdens along the border and has worked with the FEMA Grant Directorate and Texas Department of Public Safety to increase funding to border communities.
04.06.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) has announced an agreement between Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) and the Assembly of Friends of Azerbaijan (AFAZ), an educational and cultural organization which aims to build bridges between the United States and the Republic of Azerbaijan, located at the crossroads of Western Asia and Eastern Europe. The affiliation agreement signed today at the TAMIU Killam Library will allow these two instructions to collaborate on research, sponsorship of conferences and symposia exchanges of faculty and students, and education materials related to the international oil and gas industry. Pictured above from left to right: TAMIU president Dr. Ray Keck, Mr. Kemal Oksuz, Congressman Henry Cuellar, TAMIU provost and VP for academic affairs Dr. Pablo Arenaz “As an alumnus and former professor of TAMIU, I’m pleased to see the university staying true to its international commitment by bringing together world-renowned scholarship and academia in order to examine and gain a better understanding of the petroleum industry world-wide,” said Congressman Cuellar. “South Texas has been blessed with an oil and gas boom and it is important that we provide a framework for our students in this important and growing industry.” “Our students and faculty are looking forward to this new collaborative and the robust opportunities for both research and study in this important part of our world. As an international university, we are enormously interested in expanding our world of study for all and most appreciative to Cong. Cuellar for his leadership in this initiative with the Assembly of the Friends of Azerbaijan.” - Dr. Ray Keck, TAMIU President "My thanks to Congressman Cuellar for his playing a very instrumental role for this affiliation. He is the cause of this TAMIU-AFAZ Affiliation Agreement. This agreement will give a very ample opportunity to TAMIU faculty and students not only they will study international energy law, politics of energy, environmental impacts and strategy management, but also they will meet and network with people from public and private sectors." – Dr. Kemal Oksuz This partnership’s initial project will allow students and faculty at both TAMIU and Laredo Community College to participate in the Baku Summer Energy School, an annual two week certificate program held in July in Baku, Azerbaijan. Participants will be issued a certificate by the Azerbaijan Diplomatic Academy University.
03.30.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today the acceptance of San Antonio Christian School student Isaiah Meuchelboeck, son of Peter and Lottie Meuchelboeck, into the United States Military Academy at West Point. Congressman Cuellar presents San Antonio Christian School student Isaiah Meuchelboeck with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition on Monday at Windcrest City Hall. Meuchelboeck was nominated by Congressman Cuellar and was recently accepted into the United States Military Academy at West Point. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Isaiah’s exemplary test scores and his outstanding nomination application made him an ideal candidate, and one I trust will make the 28th Congressional District of Texas proud as he serves our nation. I’m grateful for Isaiah’s commitment to our country and look forward to following his career.” “As Mayor of Windcrest I am pleased that yet another member of our city is joining the ranks of WestPoint’s elite. We are honored to host U.S. Congressman Cuellar and the Meuchelboeck family for this commendable recognition,” said Windcrest Mayor Alan Baxter. Meuchelboeck lives in Windcrest, Texas, and in addition to impressive grades and test scores, has an impressive resume of extracurricular activities that include selection into the American Legion Boys State, anchoring and reporting for KSAC News, basketball, and volunteering with the Wounded Warrior and Family Support Center through Joint Base San Antonio. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities, and personal essays. Final acceptance decisions are made by the service academy.
03.26.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the bipartisan Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, which included specific language added by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). The language addition would prevent the inappropriate use of quality measures to ensure patients and healthcare professionals have the assurance they deserve, so they no longer need to fear undue legal issues regarding allegations of medical negligence. The legislation will now be sent to the Senate. “The House of Representative sent a strong message today by passing this bill in a timely and bipartisan fashion and including the provision I added to protect Texas doctors and patients,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The passage of today’s legislation will permanently fix the flawed sustainable growth program, will ensure state medical malpractice liability laws are not adversely impacted by the federal government, and will ensure community health centers have proper funding –all wins for Texas patients and doctors.” Today’s passage of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act in the House of Representatives would permanently replace an 18-year-old formula for reimbursing doctors and expands funding for Community Health Centers by $7.2 billion for two years. This ensures that vital community-based and patient-directed health centers that serve populations with limited access to health care will have HHS funding through FY2017. Without passage of this important bill, access to health care for millions of people would be lost. The legislation also extends funding and secures the health of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for two more years. CHIP has been a priority of Cuellar’s since his time in the Texas state legislature when he started the first CHIP pilot program in Laredo. Cuellar’s additions mark passage of his years-long effort to ensure legal standards of care established by state laws and state courts are protected from the infringement of the federal government. Click HERE for a printable version of the bill’s fact sheet from Democratic House Leadership.
03.04.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives this week passed a Homeland Security funding bill, which included specific language added by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). Cuellar’s additions include a call for a review of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer training to ensure professionalism, in addition to other provisions. “The inclusion of this language is extremely important to Texans along the border, and it is a huge benefit to the region that it was included in this important funding bill,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Residents and people traveling throughout my district interact with agents from Customs and Border Protection on a regular basis and it’s important that those officers—who I have the upmost respect for—establish the highest standard of professionalism to ensure every individual is treated with dignity and respect.” The language Cuellar added requires the Commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to review training manuals and coursework as well as incident reporting practices within the agency. The focus of this language is to make sure that customs and border patrol officials are trained to interact respectfully with those crossing the border. Furthermore, the addition to the bill asks that CBP report to the Committee on their findings of their review within 60 days. This is just the latest in Cuellar’s continued advocacy for professionalism along the border, in February, Cuellar announced a new ‘PRIDE’ initiative with the Director of Field Operations for CBP, David Higgerson, and the Laredo Port Director, Joseph Misenhelter, aimed at re-invigorating professionalism, respect, integrity, diversity and excellence (PRIDE) throughout the CBP workforce at South Texas ports of entry.
02.24.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced the expansion of new health care services at the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic on Tuesday. The new services feature the option for in-patient hospital stays for the first time in history, thanks to a partnership with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Laredo Medical Center and community physicians through TriWest. The Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic has additional plans to expand inpatient services to other medical facilities in the Laredo area in the near future. Additionally, the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic is expanding available services onsite to include two new primary care doctors, a dental hygienist and dental assistant, an on-board EMS, police, radiology, and laboratory work. On Feb. 24 Congressman Cuellar announced new services and a new partnership with Laredo Medical Center to provide in-patient health care services to veterans in South Texas at the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic. The historic additions mean South Texas veterans will no longer have to spend hours traveling to San Antonio and back to get the services they need, a welcome improvement that means less travel time and expenses, and more time for local vets to spend in other areas of their lives like spending time with their families. "Bringing these services to Laredo-area veterans has been a priority of mine since I was first elected over 10 years ago, and I'm so pleased to see what once was just an idea to improve the quality of life for this area's veterans has come to fruition," Congressman Cuellar said. "The ability for veterans seeking medical care to have access to in-patient and overnight care, in addition to a host of other new services and benefits, right here in Laredo means better care, closer to home--the very least we can give our veterans in return for their service." "We are very happy with this partnership between the Laredo Medical Center, TriWest, and the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System, and look forward to continue to improve access to care for our Veterans in the Laredo area,” said Robert Walton, Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs Texas Valley Coastal Bend. “Laredo Medical Center is honored to be the first authorized medical center in Webb County to provide in-patient, ER, and advanced outpatient and diagnostic services for our heroes,” said Enrique Gallegos, FACHE, Chief Executive Officer, LMC. “Our Veterans served our country and fought for the freedom we all enjoy. This is our opportunity to serve them by ensuring they have access to the first-class healthcare they deserve here at home. They’ve certainly earned this privilege and LMC is proud to be their hospital of choice.”
02.18.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced a new initiative today aimed at re-invigorating professionalism, respect, integrity, diversity and excellence (PRIDE) throughout the CBP workforce at South Texas ports of entry. The new PRIDE initiative with CBP is one of several efforts Congressman Cuellar has introduced in order to improve customer service within the federal government. Professionalism Service Managers, who will receive and address both positive and negative comments from the public who interact with CBP at the Laredo Port of Entry, were also named on Wednesday. “Thousands of people cross our international bridges on a daily basis and we should make sure they are treated in the most professional and respectful manner,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I will continue to advocate for the respectful treatment of those legally crossing our borders and I look forward to my ongoing partnership with Customs and Border Protection and the City of Laredo.” “CBP is the premiere border-based federal law enforcement agency in the U.S. and in order to better embody that ideal, we realized the critical importance of re-instilling and strengthening a culture of professionalism throughout our ranks,” said Director, Field Operations David P. Higgerson, Laredo Field Office. “Today’s rollout of the PRIDE Initiative and naming of professionalism service managers together with our stakeholders reflects the Laredo Field Office’s ongoing commitment not only to better serve the communities in which we live and work but also for CBP to foster a greater sense of pride both for and from the community.” Congressman Cuellar recently added language to the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that requires the Commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection to review training manuals and coursework as well as incident reporting practices within the agency. The focus of this language is to make sure that customs and border patrol officers are trained to interact respectfully with those crossing the border. Furthermore, the addition to the bill asks that CBP report to the Committee on their findings of their review within 60 days. This bill is still awaiting passage and approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar and Customs and Border Protection announced the new PRIDE initiative Wednesday in Laredo that is designed to help improve customer service and professionalism between the public and CBP officers at the South Texas Ports of Entry.
02.10.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced and congratulated San Antonio Christian student Isaiah Meuchelboeck, son of Peter and Lottie Meuchelboeck, on his recent acceptance to the United States Military Academy at West Point. “Nominating students from the 28th District of Texas to military service academies is a responsibility I take very seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Isaiah’s exemplary test scores and his outstanding nomination application made him an ideal candidate, and one I trust will make the 28th Congressional District of Texas proud as he serves our nation. I’m grateful for Isaiah’s commitment to our country and look forward to following his career.” Meuchelboeck lives in Windcrest, Texas, and in addition to impressive grades and test scores, has an impressive resume of extracurricular activities that include selection into the American Legion Boys State, anchoring and reporting for KSAC News, basketball, and volunteering with the Wounded Warrior and Family Support Center through Joint Base San Antonio. Each year, Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. Nominees must participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities, and personal essays. Final acceptance decisions are made by the service academy.
02.04.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) is working to ensure federal agencies have specific performance measures in place and that they are working to improve the quality of customer service in order to better use taxpayer dollars and improve the relationship between the federal government and the people it serves. The language addition was just the latest in a continued, successful, and years-long effort by Cuellar to improve customer service by the federal government. “Just like private sector companies strive for efficiency and excellent customer service to bring in business, the federal government should be doing the same,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Results-oriented government coupled with a culture of respect and customer service isn’t just an ideal to strive for, it’s what hardworking taxpayers deserve and I intend to make that a reality.” The language Cuellar added stresses result-oriented performance measures which would require government agencies to demonstrate progress towards goals. The language urges Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to work with agencies to ensure that agency funding requests in fiscal year 2016 are directly linked to agency performance plans. The Committee directs OMB to report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committee within 180 days of enactment of this to develop these specific performance measures. Additional language added by Cuellar highlights the need for improvements to the services the government provides including the usability of Healthcare.gov, inquiries from taxpayers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), or OMB processing federal employment retirement programs. Cuellar’s additions directs that OMB provide, within 90 days of enactment, a report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees on the implementation and development of standards to improve customer service and how the standards are being incorporated into performance plans. In 2013, Cuellar and Rep. McCaul (R-TX10) introduced the Government Customer Service Improvement Act of 2013--legislation that would require OMB to develop minimal customer service standards, create a two-year pilot program that will bring experts together to work with agencies that fail to meet government service standards. The legislation would accomplish the objectives at no additional cost to the taxpayer. The bill passed the House of Representatives in 2013. In 2010, Cuellar passed landmark government reform legislation, the Government Performance Results Modernization Act, which continues to streamline the federal government, integrate resources, and eliminate wasteful redundancy today. The 2010 law required agencies to identify ambitious goals and perform frequent performance evaluation. Agencies have submitted those reports on a quarterly basis since the law’s passage in 2010 and report a wide range of benefits including improved interagency collaboration, identification existing evidence gaps, and the opportunity to better inform resource allocation decision using evidence, highlighted in the Analytical perspectives of President Obama’s FY2016 budget.
01.28.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) is working to ensure efficiency of rail crossings along the U.S. and Mexico border, which are plagued by unnecessary delays and blocked city crossings causing long periods of traffic congestion. Cuellar successfully included language in FY2015 appropriations bill that would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an assessment of the best practices that can be used to reduce rail border crossing times and especially the blockage of street crossings on the U.S. side. “Efficiency is key for rail crossings along our border and this required assessment will ensure that blockages and slow-downs due to the crossing are kept to a minimum,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Problems due to traffic congestion range from affecting one’s ability to get to work or school, to the speed of our first responders to be able to get to emergency situations and it’s important we are doing everything possible to minimize these inconveniences and safety risks.” The GAO review will examine the impact of reduced staff changing times, pre-clearance for train operators, and possible changing in train operator location. GAO must provide its findings to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations within than 180 days. The language Cuellar added was as a result of a meeting he hosted in December of 2013 to address the ongoing railway crossing issues on the Kansas City Southern Railway in the City of Laredo. The meeting included the City of Laredo, Customs and Border Protection, Federal Rail Administration, Kansas Southern, Union Pacific, United States Department of Agriculture, Mexico Assistant Port Director for Field Operations in Nuevo Laredo and Assistant Port Director for Railroad Operations in Nuevo Laredo, and the Texas Department of Transportation to discuss solutions to the congestion problem. In the December 2013 meeting, the officials discussed the Kansas City Rail line’s blockage of lanes of traffic in downtown Laredo when trains are traveling South, and the problems caused when the train stops on the border for staffing changes between American staff to Mexican staff who are often not prepared for the change.
01.27.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) issued the following statement following the news that the Airport Weather Information System at the Laredo International Airport returned to full and normal service Monday evening. “While I’m pleased flights have resumed after being grounded Monday, it’s important that the Laredo International Airport has the technology and resources it needs to ensure airport operations are not halted in the future,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have been in contact with the airport and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and I’ll be sure that my office is as helpful as we can be as the airport seeks to update and replace current computers.” Sunday evening, the Laredo International Airport’s primary computer was cutting in and out, and the secondary computer was found to be defective, causing the cancellation or disruption of seven flights. The airport was able to get the primary computer working, and plans are in the works to get both computers replaced by the FAA to ensure service stability. Congressman Cuellar is schedules to meet with FAA officials about this issue Thursday. ###
01.26.2015	In FY2015, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) is continuing his record of saving taxpayer money and eliminating government waste by targeting improper payments to deceased individuals. “Ensuring the federal government is not issuing payments to people no longer alive is more than saving taxpayer money—it’s just plain common sense,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Every single taxpayer dollar is precious and should be going towards paying down the debt, supporting businesses, and improving the quality of life of Texans, not wasted by government inefficiencies.” The language Cuellar successfully included in the House of Representatives FY2015 appropriations bill requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to work with agencies across the federal government to ensure processes are in place to eliminate payments to deceased persons. The OMB must report to the House and Senate Appropriations Committee within 120 days of enactment. The Government Accountability Office issued a report in 2013 that estimated federal agency improper payments estimated around $108 billion. The report details improper payments including over $500,000 in retirement benefits to a sole deceased beneficiary, and over $23 million in Medicare services and $35.9 million in farm subsidies provided to people no longer living, among other unnecessary expenditures. This added language is Cuellar’s most recent step in a continued advocacy of efficient and responsible use of taxpayer money by the federal government. In 2013, Cuellar co-sponsored the Improper Payments Agency Cooperation Enhancement (IPACE) Act which aims to improve the accuracy of government death records as well as the access federal agencies have to the master death list. IPACE is projected to potentially save the government hundreds of millions, if not billions, in taxpayer dollars. ###
01.21.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), the only Democrat appointed to the powerful House Committee on Appropriations from Texas, New Mexico or Arizona, announced today that he received appointments to the Subcommittee for Homeland Security and the Subcommittee for Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies for the 114th Congress. “Our nation’s transportation infrastructure is at a crucial crossroads where we must decide the most efficient way to allocate federal dollars to improve crumbling bridges and roads badly in need of updates—the safety of Americans depends on it,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As America receives threats from all over the world, our nation must also prioritize Homeland Security to keep our citizens and the ideals we stand for safe, and improve our international policies—particularly with our neighbor and biggest trading partner, Mexico. It’s critical that we take swift action in both of these areas, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in each subcommittee and from both sides of the aisle to make that happen.” As a member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Cuellar will review funding for the Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Coast Guard, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), and the Office of Domestic Preparedness Funding. The Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies reviews funding for highways, airports, railways, bridges, and other infrastructure, as well as housing and urban development projects. This will be Cuellar’s third year on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, tasked with oversight of the Federal budget, review of proposed expenditures, and crafting the legislation that outlines annual spending for government agencies.
01.20.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) issued the following statement in reaction to the State of the Union address, delivered by President Obama this evening. “Tonight, I sat in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives with an open mind, not listening for Democratic or Republican talking points, but instead listening for Texas values and ideas that will continue to move our state and country forward. I was pleased to hear the President emphasize the creation of opportunities for all Americans and the expansion of the middle class, and I agree with the President that this starts with economic fairness and access to quality, affordable healthcare and education for all Americans. “Ultimately, speeches are just words, and I stand ready and willing to back those words up with action by working with the President, Democrats, and Republicans who will help fight for what Texans need, and the continued growth of our economy.” ###
01.14.2015	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that he will host Maribel Urbina, an 8th grade teacher at Mirabeau B. Lamar middle school in Laredo, Texas, as his personal guest to the State of the Union address. “Teachers make up the foundation of our communities by taking care of our children and fostering their education in an often under-appreciated career,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Ms. Urbina is a wonderful teacher that goes above and beyond for her Laredo students and is lauded by her class and the school’s administration. She’s a deserving recipient of this honor and It’s a privilege to have her as my distinguished guest in Washington during the President’s State of the Union Address.” Urbina was selected by Congressman Cuellar’s office in a random drawing of teachers that were nominated by school administrators from Texas’ 28th Congressional district. Urbina was nominated by Laredo Independent School District Superintendent Dr. Marcus Nelson and the principal of Lamar Middle School, Margarita Taboada. She is a graduate of TAMIU, where she obtained a B.A. in Political Science with a minor in History, and has been teaching Social Studies since January of 1998. She has been involved in several community and charitable projects and in 2013, she won the School Bell Award from the Laredo Chamber of Commerce. The award is presented to those educators that are selected by their peers for their performance in and out of the classroom. The President will deliver the 2015 State of the Union address to Congress on Tuesday, January 20. Last year, Cuellar hosted Luis Castañeda from Dr. Cuellar Elementary School for the speech.
01.14.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a Homeland Security funding bill, including specific language added by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). Cuellar’s additions include a call for a review of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer training to ensure professionalism, and the addition of a provision which makes costs of providing care, transportation, and humanitarian relief to undocumented immigrants eligible for reimbursement under certain Homeland Security grants in addition to other provisions. Though the legislation included his important additions, Cuellar was forced to vote against the bill due to the addition of anti-immigration amendments that roll back President Obama’s recent executive action. “The inclusion of this language is extremely important to Texans along the border, and it’s unfortunate that House Republicans played politics with this legislation and insisted on adding amendments that will jeopardize national security funding,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My hope is that we will have the opportunity to vote on a clean Homeland Security appropriations bill that serves our border communities and strengthens the middle class—without the anti-immigration amendments.” The language Cuellar added requires the Commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection to review training manuals and coursework as well as incident reporting practices within the agency. The focus of this language is to make sure that customs and border patrol officials are trained to interact respectfully with those crossing the border. Furthermore, the addition to the bill asks that CBP report to the Committee on their findings of their review within 60 days. Additional language adds a provision which makes costs of providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied alien children and to alien adults and their minor children eligible for reimbursement under certain Homeland Security grants to Southwest border recipients for fiscal years 2013 and 2014. The influx of unaccompanied alien children and families that came across the Southwest border overwhelmed federal resources and put a burden on state and local jurisdictions, particularly small counties, cities, and non-profits along the border.
01.06.2015	Rep. Cuellar Sworn Into 114th Congress Congressman Pledges to be Texas’ 28th District’s Voice in Washington WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) was sworn into his sixth term in the United States House of Representatives. "As this new Congress begins, Texas is ready for us to continue the progress we’ve made in recent years," Congressman Cuellar said. "Texans know how to work hard and work together to get things done, and it’s my hope that my colleagues in Washington are as ready as I am to adopt that philosophy this Congress.” Congressman Cuellar was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2004 and is currently a member of the House Appropriations Committee, Senior Whip and a member of the Blue Dog Coalition. He previously served as Texas Secretary of State and for 14 years representing Laredo in the Texas House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar has a well-deserved reputation for being a strong and independent voice for Texans. Often reaching across party lines to come up with bipartisan solutions for pressing issues facing both Texas and the country, in the 113th Congress, Congressman Cuellar: · Introduced and passed the Government Customer Service Improvement Act of 2013 through the House. This legislation seeks to serve the taxpayers by improving customer service across federal agencies. Congressman Cuellar plans to re-introduce this legislation because he has a strong belief that we owe our taxpayers more than delays and service breakdowns – we owe them an effective, efficient, and responsible government because, ultimately, government is in the business of customer service. · Worked through his role on the Appropriations Committee to require the Veterans Administration take stronger steps to address the Veterans Affairs claims backlog by providing additional funds to update the Veterans Benefit Management System · In 2014, Congressman Cuellar and Chairman John Carter announced that the FY14 budget included legislation that they authored that authorizes the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate public-private partnership pilots for infrastructure improvements at ports of entry along the Texas-Mexico border. This provision permitting CBP to enter into agreements with private industries will further grow travel and trade at our U.S. ports-of-entry. The Speaker of the House led today's traditional swearing-in ceremony on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar recited the oath that every Member of Congress has sworn since 1884: "I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God." After his swearing-in, Congressman Cuellar noted, "My constituents in the 28th District need a strong voice in Washington. Texas families deserve good jobs, affordable education and quality healthcare and I stand ready to get to work right away.” Congressman Cuellar stands in front of House Speaker John Boehner and his wife, Imelda, as he takes the official oath of office as the 114th Congress formally convened on Tuesday in Washington, D.C. # # # Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
12.19.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced on Wednesday the awarding of $10 million in federal funds to Methodist Healthcare Ministries of South Texas Inc. from the Corporation for National Community Service. This is the very first Social Innovation Fund (SIF) grant for the state of Texas and the second largest SIF grant ever awarded. This federal investment of $10 million will be combined with another $16.2 million provided directly from Methodist Healthcare Ministries of South Texas and will be used by its “Sí Texas Project” which will aim to reduce the rates of disease in South Texas by focusing on developing a more effective approach to caring for people with both behavioral and chronic healthcare needs. The program will connect organization working towards the same goal and increase the community impact by expanding and replicating community solutions that work. "Methodist Healthcare Ministries of South Texas worked with my office to secure Texas’ first Social Innovation Fund Grant from the Corporation for National Community Service," said Congressman Cuellar. “This federal investment, combined with funds provided by Methodist Healthcare Ministries, will greatly improve the health of the people of South Texas, especially border communities that are at the forefront of the nation’s health challenges. The Texas border region has some of the highest uninsured rates in the country and is disproportionately affected by chronic and communicable diseases. This project will greatly help to improve the health of our citizens.” “There has traditionally been a minimal investment made in South Texas both by state and national foundations,” said Rebecca D. Brune, vice president of strategic planning and growth at Methodist Healthcare Ministries. “However, we know from our work with our funded partners that there are innovative models that can effectively address these chronic illnesses and behavioral health needs. This project will allow us to evaluate these models and showcase those that are effectively meeting those needs, and ultimately, help to sustain and scale those efforts by attracting additional investments in this region.” "This is a two part investment; the first part is the federal investment from the Social Innovation Fund for a total of $10 million over two years. The second part of the investment is directly from MHM, which amounts to $16.2 million through our own dollars and by leveraging funds through other public/private partnerships--this is an addition to funds we are dedicating to conducting an evaluation of the programs supported by the SIF funds. The evaluation is a critical component to the project and, when combined with the SIF and MHM grants, makes the total investment for this initiative nearly $30 million,” Brune added Congressman Cuellar announced $10 million in federal funds to Methodist Healthcare Ministries of South Texas at the First United Methodist Church on Wednesday, Dec.17.
12.12.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on his vote in favor of the Fiscal Year 2015 omnibus appropriations bill. The measure passed the House by a vote of 219-206. “Yesterday’s agreement averts the risk of a government shutdown by providing funding for government operations in 2015. While I oppose the use of a continuing resolution to fund the Department of Homeland Security, we cannot risk the possibility of another government shutdown because of a disagreement over a policy item. “As an appropriator, I would rather see an appropriations bill or an omnibus with fresh funding for the Department of Homeland Security, rather than the continuing resolution we are passing today. We cannot focus on initiatives benefitting our security as a whole while running on directives and funds from the previous year. If Republicans object to the President’s action, they should put forward a legislative proposal, not put funding at risk for our men and women in blue and in green, the Secret Service, Coast Guard, veterans, and many others. “I voted for the omnibus bill because it was necessary to move funding forward for the eleven other agencies. I hope to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the new Congress to ensure that all agencies receive full funding for the next year. Taxpayers send us to Washington to get the job done. If we are going to get something meaningful done here in Washington, both parties need to get together and focus on areas where we agree.”
12.04.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) voted in favor of a tax package that restores more than four dozen tax cuts and prevents a burdensome tax increase on the business community and millions of American families. The tax package includes an extension of research and development tax incentives, small business expensing, and tuition tax credits, among others. “As our economy continues to recover from the worst recession since the Great Depression, businesses, taxpayers, and American families would face short-term harm and instability if these tax cuts were not extended,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These cuts will provide certainty to businesses across the county and in Texas, including farmers, ranchers, the industrial sector, and many others for the coming year. While I would have preferred to vote on a package that would provide long-term certainty to the American people, today’s legislation is a strong step in the right direction.” HR 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014, received support from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Realtors, the National Association of Manufacturing, and the American Farm Bureau Federation, among others. The bill would allow businesses and individuals to claim those tax breaks on their 2014 tax returns. A full summary of the provision may be accessed here on Congressman Cuellar’s website.
12.04.2014	Today, the House passed legislation that directs the Department of Defense to continue to focus on combating illicit networking routes in Mexico, Central America, and the rest of the Western Hemisphere. This language was included at the request of Congressman Cuellar in the National Defense Authorization Act. “The threat posed by transnational criminal organizations is so great that we must use all of our resources to combat it,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I worked to include this language in the National Defense Authorization Act directing the Department of Defense to continue its efforts to fight these groups. We must work together with our neighbors, including Mexico and the Central American nations, to stop the flow of illegal activity at its source. This will in turn result in huge savings in dollars and human life.” According to the language included in the National Defense Authorization Act by Rep. Cuellar, the Department of Defense should continue its efforts to combat transnational criminal organizations in the Western Hemisphere. It should also increase its maritime, aerial and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities in the region to more effectively support efforts to reduce illicit trafficking into the United States. Enhancing the capacity of partner nations in the region to combat the threat posed by transnational criminal organizations should be a cornerstone of the Department of Defense’s strategy in the region.
11.25.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that the Department of Homeland Security is offering spring internships through its 2015 Secretary’s Honors Program Cyber Student Volunteer Initiative for current two- and four-year college students. “This is a great opportunity for college students in Texas to gain invaluable hands-on experience in a top government agency,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage students to pursue programs that will prepare them for the workforce and allow them to learn outside of the classroom. This is a great way for college students to learn more about cybersecurity and the Department of Homeland Security. ” Beginning in the spring of 2015, more than 75 selected students will complete volunteer assignments supporting the DHS cyber mission at department field offices in over 50 locations across the country, including San Antonio and Houston. Selected students will be placed at one of the following organizations: the Office of the Chief Information Officer, Office of Intelligence and Analysis, National Protection and Programs Directorate, Transportation Security Administration, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or U.S. Secret Service. In addition to supporting activities such as cyber threat analysis, digital forensics, network diagnostics and incident response, selected students will also participate in mentoring and professional development events with DHS managers and senior leaders. The deadline for application is December 12, 2014. Internships will begin in Spring 2015 and run through the summer. Learn more about programs here and begin your application here.
11.19.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that he has been honored with the Hubert H. Humphrey Award for Notable Public Service from the American Political Science Association. The Humphrey award is given annually for notable accomplishments in public service. Past recipients include former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, former Director of the CIA, General David Petraeus, and United States National Security Advisor, Susan Rice. “Growing up as the oldest son of migrant worker parents, I was raised with a strong work ethic and commitment to attaining a higher education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The years I spent completing my Ph.D. in government at the University of Texas at Austin helped lay the platform for my career in public service, first as a State Representative, then as Texas Secretary of States, and now in the United States Congress. I thank the American Political Science Association for this honor and look forward to many more years working in the sphere of public service.” American Political Science Association Executive Director Steven Smith presents Congressman Cuellar with the Hubert H. Humphrey award for notable public service “The Humphrey Award is the discipline’s most esteemed award for notable public service by a political scientist,” said Steven Rathgeb Smith, Executive Director of the American Political Science Association. “It is especially appropriate that this award is bestowed on Congressman Cuellar, whose exemplary career serving the people of Texas represents the very best qualities in our contemporary public servants. Like Senator Humphrey, Congressional Cuellar has served his constituents and the broader public with dedication and an enduring commitment to fairness and equity for all citizens.” The Humphrey award committee includes Dr. Kathryn Sikkink from Harvard University, Dr. Adolph L. Reed Jr. from the University of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Harie C. Han from Wellesley College. Founded in 1903, the American Political Science Association is a professional organization for the study of political science and serves more than 13,000 members in over 80 countries. For more information on the American Political Science Association, visit their website here.
11.17.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today released a compilation of the latest statistics from the Federal Bureau of Investigations that show a lower murder rate in cities along the Texas-Mexico border than in other major cities across the nation and the State of Texas. The FBI crime rates also show that the number of robberies, assaults, and rapes are significantly lower in border cities than the major metropolitan cities in Texas. “Many people characterize the southern border as being unsafe but today’s numbers paint a very different picture,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These statistics clearly show that some of the safest cities in the United States are on the U.S.-Mexico border. The murder rate is actually higher in Washington, D.C. where I work than in my hometown of Laredo, Texas or other cities on the border like McAllen, Texas. These statistics should help to dispel some of the misinformation about the border region that hurts our local economy and makes it harder to hire doctors and encourage investment.” Some of the key takeaways from the latest FBI crime statistics include: · The top ten cities with the highest murder rate do not include a single city on the US-Mexico border · The murder rates in Washington, DC, Dallas, and Houston are more than six times the murder rates in McAllen, Laredo, and Brownsville, respectively · In 2013, there were 214 murders in Houston and 143 in Dallas, compared to three murders in Laredo and two in McAllen Attached to this release are the following seven charts: 2013 Murder Rates in Borders Cities Compared to US Cities, 2013 Top 10 Cities in the US with Highest Murder Rate, 2013 Top 10 Cities in the US with Highest Murders, 2013 TX Cities Total Aggravated Assaults, 2013 TX Cities Total Murders, 2013 TX Total Rapes, and 2013 TX Cities Total Robberies. To access the latest FBI crime statistics, visit this link: http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/crime-in-the-u.s/2013/crime-in-the-u.s.-2013.
11.14.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that this year’s open enrollment period for health insurance will begin this Saturday, November 15th. Residents of Webb County who do not have health insurance can sign up between November 15th and February 15th. Those residents seeking health coverage starting in 2015 must enroll in a plan by December 15th. “Millions of people across the country and in Texas have already enrolled in health insurance,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our communities in South Texas and on the border have among the lowest rates of health insurance coverage in the country as well as some of the highest rates of heart disease, diabetes, cancer, and other issues. Having health insurance means peace of mind not just for you but for those who depend on you – children, parents, and grandparents. With the opening of this year’s enrollment period, I want to encourage residents of the 28th District of Texas who do not have insurance to start looking at your options early and to reach out to my office and the local organizations listed here should you have any questions.” To preview plans in your area, visit: https://www.healthcare.gov/see-plans/. To obtain coverage, enrollees should have available proof of income, a form of identification, proof of residence, and their social security numbers. The following organizations can provide in person health insurance assistance to residents of the 28th District of Texas. Atascosa, McMullen, and Wilson Counties: Atascosa Health Center 310 W. Oaklawn Street (Across for the HEB) Pleasanton, TX 78064 www.Atascosahealthcenter.org South Texas Regional Medical Center 1905 Highway 97 East Jourdanton, Texas 78026 Phone: (830) 769-3515 http://www.strmc.com/South-Texas-Regional-Medical-Center/home.aspx Wilson Community Health Center 540 10th St. Suite 140 (Next to Tractor Supply) Floresville, TX 78114 www.Atascosahealthcenter.org Bexar County: Baptist Medical Center 111 Dallas St. San Antonio, TX 78205 (210) 619-8800 CentroMed 750 Commercial Ave. San Antonio, TX 78221 (210) 922-7000 CommuniCare Health Centers 3066 E. Commerce St. San Antonio, TX 78220 (210) 233-7157 CHRISTUS Santa Rosa Children's Hospital of San Antonio 333 N. Santa Rosa Street San Antonio, Texas 78207 www.christushealth.org San Antonio Food Bank 5200 Old Hwy 90 W San Antonio, TX 78227 (210) 337-3663 SRA International, Inc. 6909 N. Loop 1604 East Suite 1145 (Rolling Oaks Mall, next to Macy's) San Antonio, TX 78247 sa.sracallin@gmail.com (210) 347-1274 SRA International, Inc. 1800 NE Loop 410 Suite 100 San Antonio, TX 78217 sa.sracallin@gmail.com (210) 347-1274 University Health System 4502 Medical Dr. San Antonio, TX 78229 (210) 358-3350 CareLink@uhs-sa.com Starr and Hidalgo County: Nuestra Clínica del Valle www.nuestraclinicadelvalle.org 301 S. 17th St., Donna, TX – 956-464-5809 1500 Fir St., Mercedes – 956-565-3191 409 N Bryan Rd Ste 107, Mission – 956-599-9992 806 W 3rd St, San Juan – 956-787-0787 South Texas Health System 956-388-2151 Edinburg Regional Medical Center 1102 West Trenton, Edinburg McAllen Medical Center 301 West Expressway 83 McAllen Heart Hospital 1900 South D Street Access Esperanza www.accessclinics.org Appointments only 916- E Hackberry, McAllen – 956-686-6671 1201 N Conway, Mission – 956-585-4575 302 S Veterans, Edinburg – 956-383-5082 901 S James, Welasco – 956-968-5039 Cognosante Appointments 8:30am-5pm 956-340-4694 3400 N McColl Rd Ste 1, McAllen MHP Salud www.mhpsalud.org 800-461-8394 X 1007 437 S Texas Blvd, Welasco VAIL www.vailrgv.org 956-668-8245 3012 N McColl Rd. McAllen La Salle, Webb, and Zapata Counties: Centro Aztlán 406 Scott St, Laredo, TX 78040 (956) 724-6244 City of Laredo Health Department 2600 Cedar Ave, Laredo, TX 78040 http://www.ci.laredo.tx.us/health/healthindex.htm (956) 795-4901 Doctors Hospital of Laredo 10700 McPherson Rd Laredo,TX 78045 http://www.doctorshosplaredo.com/ (956) 523-2700 Gateway Community Health Center 2007 S Zapata Hwy, Laredo, TX 78046 www.gatewaychc.com/ (956) 523-3622 or email enrollme.gateway@tachc.org Laredo Medical Center 1700 E Saunders St, Laredo, TX 78041 http://www.laredomedical.com/laredo-medical-center/home.aspx (956) 796-2860 South Texas Development Council 1102 Dicky Lane Laredo, TX 78043 (956) 722-3995 http://www.stdc.cog.tx.us
11.13.2014	On Saturday, November 15th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a healthcare information and enrollment event at Mission Speer Memorial Library on 801 E 12th Street from 9am-3pm. The event will feature free face-to-face assistance with the healthcare application from navigators in English and Spanish. Attendees must bring proof of income, a form of identification, proof of residence, and their social security numbers. “I represent communities on the border and in South Texas with some of the highest rates of uninsured persons in the country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Health care costs can be devastating for those without health insurance. That is why we host information and enrollment drives throughout the year. I want to thank the organizations in the Valley that are doing excellent work to make healthcare more accessible, including Nuestra Clinica del Valle, South Texas Health System, Cognosante, MHP Salud, VAIL, Access Esperanza, and Enroll America” For full details on the event, click here. For more information on the open enrollment period and health insurance options, visit www.healthcare.gov or www.cuidadodesalud.gov. The open enrollment period begins on November 15, 2014 and lasts until February 15, 2015. Consumers seeking coverage starting at the beginning of the year must enroll in a plan by December 15th. WHAT: Healthcare information and enrollment event hosted by Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar WHEN: Saturday, November 15th 9am-3pmCT WHERE: Mission Speer Memorial Library 801 East 12th Street Mission, Texas
11.07.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) invites the public to attend the Healthcare Information and Enrollment Fest this Saturday, November 15th from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the University of Texas Health Science Center Laredo Regional Campus Library, located at 1937 E. Bustamante Street. Anyone who would like information or assistance with affordable health coverage and the Affordable Care Act can attend this free event and ask one of the many on-site Health Navigators and Certified Application Counselors about what options may be available to them. WHAT: Healthcare Information and Enrollment Fest WHEN: Saturday, November 15 from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. CDT WHERE: University of Texas Health Science Center Laredo Regional Campus Library, located at 1937 E. Bustamante St., Laredo, Texas 78041
10.28.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that he was successful in including language that will protect South Texas farmers and ranchers from economic losses due to a fever tick outbreak. “During my time in the United States Congress, I have been an advocate for the interests of farmers and ranchers living in the 28th District of Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Constituents living in my district have raised their concern about the deadly fever tick disease particular to South Texas that affects cattle. That is why I fought to include language in the 2013 Farm Bill to protect South Texas ranchers from the threat of a fever tick outbreak and insure that ranchers have the opportunity to receive some compensation for losses.” Congressman Cuellar’s language protects farmers and ranchers from the potential economic damage of a fever tick outbreak. Through an expansion of the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey Bees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP), ranchers will now have the ability to receive some compensation for the losses incurred due to this vicious pest. According to an economic impact report prepared in 2010 by the Agricultural and Food Policy Center at Texas A&M University, a small outbreak could cost the economy $123 million, with subsequent annual costs of about $97 million per year. Resources to Combat Fever Ticks for South Texans: A recent outbreak of fever ticks in Cameron County has resulted in the establishment of a Temporary Preventative Quarantine Area to stop the further spread of the tick in South Texas, effective October 7th, 2014. If you believe that you have ticks either on your property or on your livestock, please call the Texas Farm Service Agency at 979-680-5151 or visit their website here. Cameron County livestock movement restrictions and inspections: 956-546-6004 Cameron County wildlife movement restrictions and inspections (live animals, capes, hides, etc): 956-254-3507 Texas Animal Health Commission Fever Tick Brochure New Temporary Cattle Fever Tick Preventative Quarantine Area in Cameron County Temporary Preventative Quarantine Area Notice Temporary Preventative Quarantine Area Map United States Department of Agriculture Pest Alert Flier My district and Washington, D.C. offices are also available for any questions or concerns you may have. If we can help in any way, please do not hesitate to call.
10.17.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that he has been named as one of 101 Most Influential Latinos in 2013 by Latino Leaders Magazine. This year, Congressman Cuellar is joined by award-winning journalist Jorge Ramos, Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, actress and activist Eva Longoria, former Mayor of San Antonio and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros, and other influential Latinos in receiving the award. “I grew up on the border in Texas as the oldest of eight children, raised by migrant workers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We faced many challenges when I was growing up – poverty, lack of resources. But my parents always pushed me to work hard, get an education, and look beyond our everyday lives to a world of opportunity. “Growing up, I remember that all the streets in my neighborhood were dirt. Everyone who ran for mayor always promised to pave the streets. Those repeated promises taught me that if you really want to change the world around you, you must get involved. After pursuing an education that included a total of five advanced degrees, I was committed to returning home to Texas so that I could work to benefit and help our community. “For young people growing up today, the country is changing. Hispanics are 17 percent of the population nationwide and in 2060, the Hispanic population is projected to be 31 percent. In the coming years, more and more Hispanics will take on leadership roles in business, media, politics, and the arts. It is important for young people to see role models in the media and public life so that they can see the full extent of what is possible. I am joined by many successful leaders in today’s list and I thank Latino Leaders Magazine for assembling an excellent group of role models. I encourage young people to work hard and remain focused on their education – you are not limited by your circumstances in what you can achieve.” Latino Leaders Magazine recognized Congressman Cuellar as a leader on homeland security and border issues, among others. This honor is awarded annually to Latino leaders who have distinguished themselves in the past year as influential in their thoughts, ideas, and advice. For the full list of the 101 Most Influential Latinos of 2013, click here. For more information on Latino Leaders Magazine and the annual award, click here.
10.13.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) presented a high achievement award to Laredo Olive Garden manager, Jonathan Alamilla, for his success in managing the Laredo location. The Diamond Club award recognizes the top five percent of restaurant leaders from more than 1,500 locations across the country. “As a former small business owner, I understand the challenges faced by local businesses and the importance of issues like lower taxes, healthcare, food safety, nutrition, and employment,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I want to congratulate Jonathan Alamilla for the determination, hard work, and resilience that have clearly made him such a success. We need more leaders like Jonathan who can inspire their employees and lead their team to success.” Congressman Cuellar presents a Congressional Certificate of Recognition to Laredo Olive Garden manager, Jonathan Alamilla, who received the Darden Restaurant Diamond Award for the second year in a row. Jonathan Alamilla is a native of Laredo who has worked in the restaurant business since he was 16. Mr. Alamilla started off as a cook at Olive Garden when it first opened and worked his way up through many roles in the restaurant. In his two years as general manager, he has led his restaurant to win the Diamond Award every year.
10.10.2014	On Friday, October 10th, Congressman Henry Cuellar joined Azerbaijan’s Ambassador to the United States, Elin Suleymanov, for a roundtable discussion with students and professors at the University of the Incarnate Word. Azerbaijan is an ally and strategic partner to the United States and is one of the fastest growing economies in its region. Congressman Cuellar and Ambassador Suleymanov will discuss global political, economic, and security issues, the relationship between the United States and Azerbaijan, and energy cooperation between the two countries. Congressman Cuellar joins the Ambassador of Azerbaijan to the United States, Elin Suleymanov, for a discussion with government students at University of the Incarnate Word. “Azerbaijan is an ally and strategic partner to the United States and is one of the fastest growing economies in its region. Given San Antonio’s role as a rapidly growing city with an unlimited export potential, there is vast opportunity to strengthen South Texas’s relationship with Azerbaijan,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today was a great opportunity for students at University of the Incarnate Word to learn more about a vital and growing part of the world and I thank the University for hosting the event. I look forward to seeing the continued development of Azerbaijan and the strengthening of our bilateral relationship.”
10.08.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that he has received the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) Award for Legislative Excellence, which honors Members of Congress who demonstrate support for policies that enhance the ability of U.S. manufacturers to succeed in the global economy. “Jobs in the manufacturing sector support millions of American workers and are a vital part of the success of our economy. Across the country and the State of Texas, workers in plants, factories, and other facilities produce top quality American goods which are sold around the world. The manufacturing industry supported $211 billion dollars in total output in 2012 in Texas alone,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Standing with the manufacturing industry is simple because the manufacturing industry stands with Texas families.” Congressman Cuellar was one of 238 congressmen to receive the Legislative Excellence Award, which was awarded based on 29 key votes in the House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar was the only Texas Democrat to receive the award and one of only seven Democrats in the House of Representatives to receive the award. For the past two years in the 113th Congress, Congressman Cuellar had an 86% voting record with NAM.
10.07.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) has been honored with the Spirit of Enterprise award by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in recognition of his support to the business community during the 113th Congress (2013). The official presentation took place on Tuesday at the Laredo Chamber of Commerce where Chamber President Miguel Conchas, along with members of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce Board and representatives from the City of Laredo and Webb County, congratulated Congressman Cuellar and presented him with the award. “I thank the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for recognizing the efforts I have made in Congress to improve and promote business,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our quality of life depends greatly on maintaining healthy and diverse economies. Local chambers of commerce all over the country share that goal and vision for our nation.” Congressman Cuellar receives Spirit of Enterprise Award from Laredo Chamber of Commerce Chairman of the Board David Newman (middle) and Laredo Chamber of Commerce President Miguel Conchas (right). “We certainly commend Congressman Cuellar for this honor. A 70 percent vote in favor of business is not easy to accomplish – but, it is a track record that shows support for the growth and development of this region. It is reassuring to know that we have someone in Washington batting for us at all times,” said Miguel Conchas, president of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber's prestigious Spirit of Enterprise award is given annually by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication, How They Voted. Congressman Cuellar has an extensive record of supporting local business and job growth and has received the Spirit of Enterprise award from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce eight times since 2005. Congressman Cuellar was one of only seven Democratic U.S. House of Representatives members, and the only Texas Democrat to receive the 2013 award.
10.07.2014	The Texas Rehab Action Network (TRAN) has awarded Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) “Legislator of the Year” in recognition of his assistance to and support of public rehabilitation effort. TRAN, a voluntary group with approximately 800 members made up of professionals from the field and members of the business community, met for their annual conference on Oct. 2 in Frisco, Texas, where they announced Congressman Cuellar as Legislator of the Year. Congressman Cuellar has met with TRAN to discuss the Public Vocational Legalization program funded by Congress through the Rehabilitative Services Administration within the Department of Education. His congressional office in San Antonio partnered recently with the Division of Blind Services so that, Jose Rangel, a student majoring in political science at the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA), could complete his college internship hours with the University of Texas at San Antonio. Rangel chose to intern with Congressman Cuellar’s office to gain knowledge in policymaking and services provided to constituents. UTSA political science major Jose Rangel interned at Congressman Cuellar’s San Antonio District Office this past summer. “The Texas Rehab Action Network does important work to level the playing field for persons with disabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Persons with disabilities contribute greatly to our workforce and I strongly believe that everyone should be able to participate equally in the business community. I thank TRAN for this recognition.” “We recognize Congressman Cuellar in is his leadership demonstration with his own office by offering internships to persons with disabilities. This summer, he provided an internship for an individual who was blind and partnered with the Department of Assisted and Rehabilitative Services to assure his needs were taken care of. Additionally, we appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s intention to include regulation of federal contractors to set a seven percent goal for hiring people with disabilities,” said TRAN Board Member Terry Smith. “He has been an advocate in encouraging the hiring of people with disabilities into the workforce and believes in the value they can offer in both competiveness and effectiveness in the workforce.”
10.06.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) hosted a business roundtable discussion with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Michael Froman in conjunction with the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. This event brought together a group of business leaders, trade associations, and policymakers from the San Antonio area to discuss the U.S. trade agenda. San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor was also in attendance at the discussion. “In South Texas, we know that trade is the lifeblood of our economy, supporting thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in economic impact. In 2013 U.S. goods and services exports supported an estimated 11.3 million jobs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today’s event was an excellent opportunity for San Antonio businesses to discuss ways to expand trade opportunities for American businesses with the Administration’s top trade official. I thank the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce and all the local businesses that made today’s roundtable possible.” Congressman Cuellar joins United States Trade Representative Michael Froman at the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce for a roundtable on trade opportunities for San Antonio area businesses. San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor was also in attendance. “San Antonio has a reputation for being a leader in international trade and therefore supports the efforts of Ambassador Froman in his vision for the nation. Our city has nine formal relationships with international ‘Sister Cities’ and is one of the nation’s leading trade partners with Canada and Mexico. We are the proud birthplace of NAFTA, and we continue to focus on trade as a vital part of our economic success. Our diverse international community finds it natural to seek ever more openings for our businesses to partner in trade, which makes this visit from the USTR Ambassador an honor and opportunity to remain a leader for the nation.” – Richard Perez, President and CEO, San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. Ambassador Froman, a member of the Cabinet, is the Administration’s lead trade negotiator, and is responsible for developing U.S. trade and investment policy. Present at the roundtable were representatives from H-E-B Grocery Company, Kiolbassa Provision Company, Union Pacific Railroad, the Border Trade Alliance, Toyota, City of San Antonio Economic Development Corporation, Port of San Antonio, LR Global, Brooks City Base, San Antonio Airport, Texas A&M International University, Bexar County, Free Trade Alliance San Antonio, CH2M Hill, the Turquoise Council, and the Asociación de Empresarios Mexicanos.
10.06.2014	On Monday, October 6th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) participated in a jobs tour of the Grand Hyatt San Antonio to hear directly from employees how boosting trade, travel, and tourism will foster economic growth in the San Antonio area. The tour included an overview of the basics of the property, including staff, rooms, and event space, and continued throughout the hotel, stopping to meet some of the employees who work in the kitchen, laundry, pool facilities and a mock guest room. Throughout the tour, Congressman Cuellar learned about how each component of the hotel functions and more information on the lodging industry. Congressman Cuellar meets with hotel employees at the Grand Hyatt to discuss their operations. “I had the opportunity today to speak to the men and women who are the heart of the Grand Hyatt San Antonio – the individuals who show up every day to work hard and achieve the American Dream,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Texas attracts people from around the country and all over the world. Congress must continue to do all it can to support the industry and ensure that travel and tourism remain a top priority.” Rep. Cuellar learns about the operations of linen room at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in San Antonio.
10.02.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced a new report that shows the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is working not only for people across the United States, but right here at home in Texas Congressional District 28. Across the 28th District of Texas, 14,409 people have enrolled in a healthcare plan in the Marketplace during the first annual open enrollment period from Oct. 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014.** “The area of Texas I represent has some of the highest rates of people without health insurance in the country. Having affordable healthcare coverage provides peace of mind that an illness will not derail your family’s financial wellbeing. With that financial security, families can spend more, benefitting the local economy and creating more jobs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The next open enrollment period for healthcare coverage will begin on November 15th of this year and I encourage anyone without health insurance to explore their options in the Marketplace. I thank the many partners who will help us get the word out once open enrollment begins and look forward to working with them.” To date, more than 8 million Americans have signed up for private coverage through the Marketplaces, more than 3 million young adults have gained coverage through their parents’ plans, and hundreds of millions of Americans with employer-based coverage and Medicare have improved benefits, according to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). In addition, the ACA guarantees that Americans can never again be discriminated against because of a pre-existing condition, women can never be charged more for coverage because of their gender, and Americans will never be sold health insurance policies that disappear when they need coverage most. You can get more information about open enrollment at the Marketplace by visiting HealthCare.gov or by calling 1-800-318-2596. **Note: Estimates are based on enrollment numbers for zip codes represented partially or fully by Congressman Cuellar.
09.30.2014	On Tuesday, September 30th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) moderated a panel on expanding job opportunities for Latinos in oil and gas industries as part of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s annual Public Policy Conference. Participating in the panel discussion will be representatives from Exelon Corporation, South Texas Energy and Economic Roundtable, General Electric, Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas, and the Laborers’ International Union of North America. “The energy boom we are currently seeing is not only a boon for our own energy independence, but a tremendous opportunity for thousands of workers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With a myriad of opportunities in Texas, and across the border in Mexico, the possibility of high paying jobs for Latinos in the energy sector has never been greater. I would like to thank the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute for inviting me to moderate today’s discussion and for the good work they do developing the next generation of Hispanic leaders.” ​ Congressman Cuellar leads a panel on energy and jobs in Texas with panelists Omar Garcia, President of South Texas Energy and Economic Roundtable (left) and Joseph Dominguez, Senior Vice President for Government Affairs and General Counsel at Exelon Corporation (right). Congressman Cuellar represents a portion of the Eagle Ford Shale, which in a recent study by the University of Texas San Antonio was estimated to have produced $87 billion in economic impact and over 115,000 jobs in 2013. By 2023, the Eagle Ford Shale is projected to support more than 196,000 jobs and $137 billion for Texas economy. Economic growth from the Eagle Ford Shale impacts five counties represented by Congressman Cuellar – Atascosa, La Salle, McMullen, Webb, and Wilson counties.
09.27.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and the Imaginarium of South Texas teamed up on Saturday to provided hundreds of books to scores of elementary and middle school children eager to enter a world literature. Children and their families heard Congressman Cuellar speak on the importance of reading and education. With a plethora of stories and subjects to choose from, students were delighted to take home a book of their choice during the event at the Imaginarium of South Texas located inside Mall del Norte. All books are from the Library of Congress and were provided by the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar has provided books from the Library of Congress to the Imaginarium throughout his five terms as a U.S. Congressman. Congressman Cuellar gives away books collected by his office from the Library of Congress in Washington to children visiting the Imaginarium in Laredo. “I am a firm believer in education and want to encourage everyone to maintain a healthy interest in reading,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Although these children here today may think they are only reading a book of interest, they should realize that by doing so they are actually developing great reading and comprehension skills that will help them get ahead in life.” Congressman Cuellar speaks with volunteers at the Imaginarium of South Texas during an event giving away Library of Congress books. "The Imaginarium of South Texas Board of Directors and staff are extremely honored and appreciative of our Congressman Dr. Henry Cuellar for this great initiative in promoting literacy and STEAM (science, technology, engineering, art, and mathematics) opportunities for the children of our community,” said Sandra Cavazos, Executive Director of the Imaginarium of South Texas. “It is because of Congressman Cuellar that we can provide beautiful books to elementary and middle school students from the Library of Congress. We sincerely thank Congressman Cuellar for his commitment to children and the Imagininarium of South Texas."
09.25.2014	Rep. Cuellar Announces Over $3.4 Million in Federal Funds for TAMIU, LCC Funds to Help Minority Students Succeed in Science, Tech, Engineering and Mathematics Careers Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that both Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) and Laredo Community College (LCC) are the recipients of federal grants that will improve higher education opportunities for minority students at those institutions. Congressman Cuellar joined TAMIU President Dr. Ray Keck and LCC President Dr. Juan Maldonado on Thursday to announce an investment of over $2.7 million in federal funds for both TAMIU and LCC. The funds were award by the Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSI) Title V Program, an initiative intended to improve and expand education opportunities at institutions that serve a Hispanic majority in their student population. Since 2001, TAMIU has received over $15 million in federal grants through the Title V program. Today’s award will grant the institutions the necessary resources for the next five years to enhance the preparation, retention, graduation and transfer rates of Hispanic and other minority students to the skilled workforce or baccalaureate and post-baccalaureate programs by outlining strategic plans focusing on student development, engagement, retention and graduation. As of the Fall 2013 semester, 94 percent of TAMIU undergraduates and 96 percent of LCC’s undergraduate population was Hispanic. Congressman Cuellar and TAMIU President Ray Keck also announced a separate federal grant from the U.S. Department of Education Minority Science and Engineering Improvement Program (MSEIP) for approximately $750,000 for a three-year program aimed at increasing the participation of underrepresented minorities at Texas A&M International University in science and engineering careers. Congressman Cuellar, President Ray Keck of TAMIU, President Juan Maldonado of LCC and representatives from both institutions hold up two separate checks from the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar for federal grants awards totaling $3.4 million that will be used to help minority students succeed in college. “My office was able to help both TAMIU and LCC successfully apply for the federal funding they needed to better serve our local college students,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Both institutions do an excellent job of educating and preparing our students to succeed not only in Laredo, but on a global level. This grant is an important investment in our students in higher education. But, more importantly, it is an investment in our community’s future workforce.” “This is a program which is breathtaking in both its scope and its simplicity. It holds dear the missions of both TAMIU and LCC and fully embraces a shared commitment to Build Scholars,” said Dr. Ray Keck, President of Texas A&M International University. “Underpinned by student research and faculty development opportunities and girded further by infrastructure enhancements and coordinated campus resources, it will provide rich and relevant learning experiences. We strongly believe it will propel students to persist beyond the undergraduate degree to the graduate degree and the myriad of career and professional opportunities that unfold thereafter. We are deeply honored to have Congressman Cuellar’s unwavering support and vision guiding this and moving our students towards their highest personal realization.” "Laredo Community College is elated to work with our sister institution, Texas A&M International University, and Congressman Henry Cuellar in continuing to expand opportunities and provide services that promote Hispanic students’ success,” said Dr. Juan Maldonado, President of Laredo Community College. “Knowing that Hispanic students lag behind at the state and national levels in high school and college completion rates, it is imperative that as predominantly Hispanic-serving institutions we work together." The news coincides with the celebration of National Hispanic Heritage Month that began September 15th and runs until October 15th.
09.23.2014	Rep. Cuellar, City of Laredo Break Ground on Phase II of Chacon Creek Hike and Bike Trail Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), City of Laredo Council Member Alex Perez, and representatives from the City of Laredo, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) and Shefrey Engineering broke ground on Phase II of the Chacon Creek Hike and Bike Trail, Tuesday in East Laredo. Chacon Creek has great recreational, educational and economic potential. The master plan developed by the City of Laredo will have the Chacon Creek Hike and Bike Trail begin at the Laredo Community College South Campus, then travel along the historic Rio Grande, where the creek meets the river, and eventually connect to an existing trail system that runs north crossing State Highway 359 and meets with the existing Loop 20 bike trail that ultimately connects to Texas A&M international University. The groundbreaking of Phase II of the Chacon Creek Hike and Bike Trail is in part due to a $3.3 million earmark Rep. Cuellar secured for this project in 2006 through the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) and is expected to be complete by April 2015. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), Council Member Alex Perez and representatives from the City of Laredo, TxDOT and Shefrey Enginnering broke ground on Phase II of the Chacon Creek Hike and Bike Trail in East Laredo Tuesday. “Chacon Creek is an important natural resource that has immense potential for the people in our community. This project will allow area residents to enjoy outdoor recreation, all while encouraging physical activity and creating jobs for our area,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate the City of Laredo on their efforts in building a better Laredo with amenities that we can all enjoy.” “I’m excited that Laredo’s natural beauty will be developed into a project that will be used and appreciated by the citizens of Laredo for their health and well-being, while the City of Laredo is preserving and protecting such a natural treasure,” said Cm. Perez.
09.17.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) was awarded the Guardian of Small Business Award by the National Federation of Independent Businesses. Members of Congress receive the NFIB recognition for voting in the interests of small businesses 70% or more of the time. “As a former small business owner, I am familiar with the challenges facing entrepreneurs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Small business owners are the backbone of our economy and we must do all we can to foster entrepreneurialship and growth. As a federal representative, I am committed to cutting red tape and creating an environment where business can grow and foster. I thank the National Federation of Independent Businesses for this award for the 113th Congress.” This is the fourth time Congressman Cuellar has received the Guardian of Small Business Award. He has a score of 80% from the National Federation of Independent Businesses for the 113th Congress. For more information on the Guardian of Small Business Award, click here.
09.16.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement today in support of a continuing resolution to fund the federal government: “Congress has two responsibilities – to pass a budget and pay our bills on time,” said Congressman Cuellar. “While I would have preferred to see a full appropriations bill brought before the House, I feel that it is time to stop putting politics over policy. That is why I stand in support today of this Continuing Resolution that contains much needed funding flexibility for the Department of Homeland Security to deal with unaccompanied minors at the border, a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, and funding to combat the Ebola crisis. I thank Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Nita Lowey for their hard work on this continuing resolution.” Click HERE to watch Congressman Cuellar’s full statement on the House Floor: The House of Representatives is expected to vote this week on a Continuing Resolution that will provide funding to the federal government until December 11th. Full details of the Continuing Resolution are included below: Export-Import Bank The authorization for Export-Import Bank operating authority is extended until June 30, 2015. Unaccompanied Minors The Administration requested apportionment flexibility so that DOJ, DHS, and HHS’ Office of Refugee Resettlement may address the rise in unaccompanied children at the southwest border and resulting staffing issues through the duration of the CR. The CR provides anomalies that include this authority for DHS and HHS, but not for DOJ. Ebola The CR includes $30 million for CDC and $58 million for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (within HHS) to respond to the Ebola outbreak. National security The CR provides $50 million to clear unexploded, subsurface ordnance in Afghanistan. The CR extends authorities to support the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq; and to provide for assistance in combatting terrorism. The CR continues the FY2014 spending rate for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). The rule makes in order one amendment providing the President authority to train and equip forces fighting ISIL. Weather satellites The CR includes flexible apportionment to maintain the planned launch schedule for NOAA’s Joint Polar Satellite System and the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite system. User fees The CR allows FDA to collect and spend fees authorized under the Drug Quality and Safety Act on facilities that compound human drugs; and extends authority for recreation fee programs, including National Park Service annual passes. District of Columbia The CR allows the District of Columbia to spend its local funds in accordance with the budget request through the duration of the CR. Internet Tax Freedom The Internet Tax Freedom Act, barring taxes on internet access, bandwidth, and email, is extended through the duration of the CR. Chemical security The CR extends operating authority to regulate security at high-risk chemical facilities. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) The CR extends authority for TANF, including the Contingency Fund at a slightly reduced baseline level. Military construction Appropriations on military construction are reduced by $3.25 billion from the FY2014 enacted level to the lower FY2015 request level. Veterans The CR increases funding for the VA disability claims backlog to the President’s FY2015 budget request level, increases funding for the Office of Inspector General to investigate complaints about medical care, and increases funding for the Office of Special Counsel to pursue whistleblowing and retaliation complaints from VA employees. Ukraine The CR includes a provision providing flexibility within accounts to ensure the Department of State and USAID can respond to events in Ukraine. War risk aviation insurance The CR extends war and terror risk aviation insurance authority. While major commercial airlines are insured through the private market, some smaller airlines and cargo carriers use this federal program. Environmental Cleanup The CR provides flexible apportionment to maintain existing employment levels at Department of Energy cleanup sites. Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) The CR increases funding for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) to the President’s FY2015 budget request level. Small business loans The CR increases the loan limit for the Small Business Administration 7(a) loan program to accommodate recent increases in loan demand.
09.11.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement regarding the President’s Remarks on the threat of ISIL: “Tonight the President announced that the United States will lead a broad coalition of our allies to defeat ISIL and deny them safe haven. Now is the time to rally behind the men and women of our armed forces and it is not a time to play politics. Confronting the threat of ISIL requires national unity and I urge the President and my colleagues in Congress to act swiftly and decisively on this plan to defeat ISIL. My thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the families of the two Americans who were brutally murdered by ISIL.”
09.10.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that South Texas Development Council has been awarded over $233,000 in federal Navigator grants from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to serve Webb, Zapata, La Salle counties and other areas. Navigators provide in-person assistance to Texans with the Affordable Care Act’s Marketplace, including as they shop for and enroll in plans in the Health Insurance Marketplace. The South Texas Development Council has been awarded $233,550 in federal funding in order to help residents in Webb, Zapata and La Salle counties enroll in affordable health insurance. The organization will target families with children, legal immigrants, individuals who lack English proficiency, the disabled and young adults. The United Way of Metropolitan Tarrant County was awarded $4.6 million from HHS for the navigator program was the state and apportioned $233,550 to South Texas Development Council. “When families have access to healthcare, small health issues can be treated inexpensively before they turn into medical crises and local taxpayer dollars are saved. In counties that have a large number of uninsured people health care, like the ones I represent, costs have been historically very high,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Access to quality and affordable health care continues to be one of my top priorities and I am pleased that South Texas Development Council has received this award to help residents in Webb, Zapata, and La Salle counties get the health insurance they need.” “This being our second year of administering the program, we certainly recognize the tremendous challenges which we face in providing this much needed service to a 13 county region. Our mission is to educate our citizens on the health care coverages available to them through the Affordable Care Act,” said Robert Mendiola, executive director for the South Texas Development Council. During the open enrollment period in 2013 and 2014, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar hosted workshops across the 28th District of Texas to help constituents learn more about their options under the new health insurance marketplace. For more information on these workshops and the Congressman’s other work on behalf of access to healthcare, please visit here.
09.10.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that MHP Salud, has been awarded over $626,180 in federal Navigator grants from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to serve Hidalgo and Starr Counties and the Rio Grande Valley. Navigators provide in-person assistance to Texans with the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Health Insurance Marketplace, including as they shop for and enroll in plans in the Health Insurance Marketplace. MHP Salud has been awarded $626,180 from HHS to help improve the health in farmworker and border communities in the Rio Grande Valley, including Starr and Hidalgo counties. MHP Salud will work to insure residents in the area, targeting families with children, legal immigrants, individuals who lack English proficiency, the disabled and young adults. “When families have access to healthcare, small health issues can be treated inexpensively before they turn into medical crises and local taxpayer dollars are saved. In counties that have a large number of uninsured people health care, like the ones I represent, costs have been historically very high,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Access to quality and affordable health care continues to be one of my top priorities and I am pleased that MHP Salud has received this award to help residents in Starr and Hidalgo counties get the health insurance they need.” "The Navigator team at MHP Salud was elated to hear that our organization was refunded to continue offering in-person enrollment assistance and education to our community in the Rio Grande Valley. The Navigator team did so much work last year helping people complete eligibility applications and enrolling them into Qualified Health Plans; many for the first time in their lives,” said MHP Salud Navigator Program Director Cliff Clark. “However, the need continues to be great, and we're honored to have been selected to continue providing this service to our community, which has a tremendous positive impact on our health." "The Navigator team at MHP Salud will have six Navigators and two Program Coordinators, who are also certified Navigators to assist the people of our community on November 15th when open enrollment begins. The Navigator team at MHP Salud serves Starr, Hidalgo, Cameron, and Willacy counties," Clark added. During the open enrollment period in 2013 and 2014, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar hosted workshops across the 28th District of Texas to help constituents learn more about their options under the new health insurance marketplace. For more information on these workshops and the Congressman’s other work on behalf of access to healthcare, please visit here.
09.02.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Mayor Raul Salinas and City Manager Carlos Villarreal, along with representatives from the Laredo City Council, Laredo Fire Department and Laredo International Airport, for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, unveiling the new $4.5 million, 15,400 square foot Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Station (RFFS). The RFFS was 90 percent funded by a federal grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), while the City of Laredo funded the remaining 10 percent. Due to the RFFS’s key location and proximity to airport runways, the station is expected to greatly reduce emergency response time and enhance safety for passengers travelling through the airport. Already one of the region’s most-important airports, both in terms of cargo and passengers, the addition of this RFFS is a huge accomplishment that highlights the growth our region is experiencing. The Airport RFFS will comfortably house six Laredo firefighters who will be stationed in the facility that includes a wash and decontamination room, a private staff area with six shared sleeping rooms, three bathrooms, a laundry and exercise room, a dayroom and a kitchen and dining area. “I congratulate the City of Laredo on opening this airport fire station and for securing the safety of our airline passengers and air cargo industry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am pleased to help to have helped provide federal investment funds for this much-needed fire station at the Laredo International Airport.” Congressman Cuellar is joined by Laredo City Manager Carlos Villarreal for the unveiling of a new fire station at the Laredo International Airport, partially funded through a federal grant. “This is a much-needed new feature for the airport that continues to improve the airport for passenger and cargo travel alike,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “This is one of those features that we hope we never have to use, but is very important to be able to have, just in case,” he concluded. Over the past decade, the federal government has invested more than $100 million dollars into the Laredo International Airport for improvements and reconstruction of taxiways, runaways, aprons, the installation of a Geographic Information System, and many other projects to improve the airports infrastructure, all of which were designed to facilitate commerce for the region and increase the safety and comfort for over 200,000 passengers the airport receives each year.
08.26.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, District VI Council Member Charlie San Miguel, City Manager Carlos Villarreal, and officials from the Texas Department of Transportation to officially inaugurate the Manadas Creek Hike and Bike Trail at North Central Park. The new trail will expand the park area for the benefit of Laredo residents while providing expanded green spaces for public use. The total cost of the project was $850,000, including a $300,000 federal earmark secured by Congressman Cuellar in 2010. “Today’s grand opening of the Manadas Creek Hike and Bike Trail is a major accomplishment for the citizens of Laredo,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In 2010, I worked to secure this $300,000 federal earmark for the City of Laredo to design and construct the Manadas Creek Hike and Bike Trail. The new trail adds more green spaces and walking areas for Laredo residents, while still preserving the character of Manadas Creek and protecting our local environment. I would like to congratulate the City for successfully completing this project.” Rep. Cuellar joins Laredo City Councilman Charlie San Miguel and former Councilman Gene Belmares and other state and local officials for the ribbon cutting of the Manadas Hike and Bike Trail The new extension will provide additional pathways to access to the shopping centers, grocery store, hospital, restaurants.
08.25.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), Texas Transportation Commissioner Jeff Austin III, the Alliance for I-69 Texas, as well as state and local leaders and officials from the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) gathered to commemorate the official designation of a section of Loop 20 as part of the Interstate 69 West System. With this designation, this section of Loop 20 will now be eligible for federal funding opportunities. “Today’s official designation of a section Loop 20 as part of the I-69 system paves the way for further growth and commercial vibrancy in South Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Improvements to the roads and infrastructure of I-69 is a boost to the economy of South Texas and the region as a whole. I thank the Texas Department of Transportation for its commitment to ensuring we continue our investment in transportation and look forward to our continued collaboration.” Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), along with representatives from TxDOT, the City of Laredo and the State of Texas on Monday unveiled the sign for the new I-69W at Loop 20 in Laredo.
08.20.2014	Laredo, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) on Wednesday announced the awarding of $975,000 in federal funds to Webb County’s Juvenile Treatment Drug Court Program, which is designed to help juveniles dealing with drug-related problems acquire the necessary assistance and intervention to help get them back on the path to success. These much-needed federal funds come from the Department of Health and Human Services through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) and will be used to expand the existing Juvenile Treatment Drug Court Program, which is operated by the Webb County Court at Law II in collaboration with Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN). At least 250 participants will benefit from this program through its three-year implementation period from September 9, 2014 to September 29, 2017. The Juvenile Drug Court Treatment Program provides outpatient services to adolescents experiencing life problems related to the use of alcohol or illicit substances. The target population is adolescents with drug use disorders of abuse or dependence and who are in the pre and/or post adjudication process within the legal system. This intervention program focuses on teaching adolescents how to either enhance or find new reinforcers for staying substance-free, how to use existing community resources, and how to develop a positive support system within the family. “This grant helps to continue the excellent treatment services that Webb County and SCAN provide our community. One of my top priorities is to see that the people in the district I represent receive adequate funding for these great programs that help families in South Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Judge Garza for his hard work and dedication to our community as well as the full staff of SAMHSA for their dedication and exemplary service.” “We are greatly pleased and excited to have been selected to receive this grant award. This will further enhance our existing Juvenile Drug Court Program and allow us to serve many more children and adolescents that struggle with addiction,” said Hon. Jesus “Chuy” Garza of Webb County Court-at-Law II. “We congratulate Judge Jesus Garza and his team for obtaining the SAMHSA grant and we are ready to collaborate with them to meet the substance abuse treatment needs of young people participating in the Webb County’s Juvenile Drug Court,” said SCAN CEO Isela Dabdoub. These federal funds are an investment in the families of Webb County as they will help keep young people out of jail and provide them with the counseling and skills they need to break the cycle of dependency.
08.15.2014	Last week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) sent a letter to President Obama requesting a meeting with himself and other Members of Congress to discuss what policy changes and funding needs are necessary to resolve the humanitarian crisis at the border. “It is time for us to put partisan politics aside, lead on this issue, and find solutions that are acceptable to both sides of the aisle,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Doing nothing is not an option. It’s simple: a fast, fair process that brings children home to their families sooner rather than later is vital. I urge the President to meet with myself and other Members of Congress to discuss commonsense solutions to the ongoing humanitarian crisis at the southern border.” The full text of Congressman Cuellar’s letter is below and attached. The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 August 8, 2014 Dear President Obama: With the humanitarian crisis that is ongoing on our southern border, it is imperative that we work together to a find common sense solution to both care for the undocumented immigrants who have arrived in our country and deter others from making the same dangerous journey. Congress, along with the administration, must work together in a bipartisan fashion to enact legislation to provide funding and policy changes to address this humanitarian crisis at the border. In June of 2014, you sent a letter stating that your administration felt changes to the 2008 Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) would be one potential step in stemming the flow of the unaccompanied alien children (UACs) into the United States (see attachment 1). High ranking members of your administration that include Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson made a similar recommendation (see attachment 2). In July of 2014, Senator Cornyn and I drafted a bipartisan bill to address this issue which improves the TVPRA of 2008—treating all unaccompanied immigrant children crossing our southern border with equality under the law, allowing for voluntary reunification with family, whether they are from Mexico, Central America, or any other country, while maintaining due process and all legal protections. Throughout the process of drafting my legislative proposal to address the loophole created by the 2008 law that smugglers have taken advantage of, I reached out to my Democratic colleagues in opposition to sit down with me and provide their input so that we could come up with a solution. To this day I have yet to hear anyone offer one. A short time later after your June 2014 letter, your administration reversed its stance on changing the 2008 TVPRA, as White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest stated, “First, as it relates to language where you ended up, it is correct that almost a month ago -- I think even more than a month ago now -- the administration did put forward a specific request for Congress to take action in granting additional authority that could be used by the Secretary of Homeland Security to incorporate some flexibility in enforcing the law so that we could actually do a better job of enforcing that law more efficiently. The language that has been put forward by Senator Cornyn and Congressman Cuellar doesn’t -- it actually undermines the desire for more flexibility” (see attachment 3). On July 30, 2014, the White House Office of Legislative Affairs issued a statement that they recommend you veto H.R. 5230. While not a perfect bill, at that time H.R. 5230 included the language from the bi-partisan legislation that Senator Cornyn and I introduced that would have provided funding to address the crisis and made commonsense policy changes. Shifts in the conversation about how to address this crisis have had a real impact on the success of any solution being considered and agreed upon. As the Washington Post Editorial Board noted on August 5, 2014, “Mr. Obama’s own vacillations have not helped cope with the crisis. He was right to identify a 2008 anti-trafficking law as a key source of the problem. Inadvertently, that law has encouraged thousands of Central American children to try to reach the United States by granting them access to immigration courts that Mexican kids don’t enjoy; the effect has been months-long backups in the courts. Initially, the president said he would propose changes to the law to hasten deportations. Faced with opposition from Democrats, he backed down days later” (see attachment 4). Since June 2014 many Democrats have expressed their support for making changes to the 2008 law including: -June 30th –President Obama stated in his June 30th letter to Congress “providing the DHS Secretary additional authority to exercise discretion in processing the return and removal of unaccompanied minor children from non-contiguous countries like Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.” (see attachment 1) -July 7th White House Press Briefing by Press Secretary Josh Earnest stated “Well, no, Jon, what’s important is the difference between 2008 and the more recent statistics that you’re citing is the passage of that law by Congress in 2008 that was signed into law by the previous President. And what that law mandated was a difference in the way that children who arrive in this country from non-contiguous countries are treated in the immigration system. So the numbers that you cite reflect, or at least are the consequence of this administration’s consistent commitment for enforcing the law. What we are seeking is greater authority for the Secretary of Homeland Security to exercise some discretion that would allow him to make that process more efficient, and in some cases more quickly and promptly remove some children from this country if it is found that they don’t have -- that they don’t qualify for humanitarian relief. So understanding those numbers that were presented in the Times this morning requires someone to take into account what the enforcement of the law requires. And what that law required was a longer process for adjudicating the cases of these children from non-contiguous countries. (see attachment 5) - July 19th Sen. Tom Carper (D) said the funding and the policy changes should move together. “I think they go together,” he said. (see attachment 6 ) - July 19th “I’m interested in seeing some of the other proposals around policy changes. I do think there may be some things we can change that help expedite proceedings for some of the people who are here,” said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D), who is in the midst of a competitive race in New Hampshire. “It seems to me we ought to be able to find some middle ground here that everybody can agree to.” (see attachment 6) - July 19th Sen. Claire McCaskill (Mo.), another Democratic centrist, said, “I think we should have the same law on the books for Central America as we have for Canada and Mexico.” (see attachment 6 ) -July 22nd – According to The Hill,“ Secretary Johnson also reiterated that the administration is seeking changes to a 2008 human trafficking law to ease the processing of some child immigrants, despite some Democratic gripes… “We’ve asked ... for a change in law and we’re in active discussions with Congress right now about doing that,” he said.” (see attachment 2) -July 24th -Hillary Clinton said that she was open to changing a 2008 trafficking law to help the administration deal with an influx of child migrants crossing the border illegally. "I think it should be looked at as part of an overall package," Clinton said on NPR's "On Point.” (see attachment 7) -As of July 30th Representatives Ron Barber, Collin Peterson and Dan Lipinski have signed onto my bipartisan legislation H.R. 5114 the HUMANE Act. Mr. President, making a change to the TVPRA will only address about 20% (UACs) of the problem of the individuals crossing at the southern border (see attachment 8). Family units and adults make up the other 80% crossing the southern border. The reason we need to find a solution is because up until this point the focus has primarily been about UACs, but as you can see undocumented immigration is a much larger problem that will require funding and policy changes. I am committed to finding a bipartisan solution. I am writing this letter to urge you to meet with myself and other members of Congress to discuss what policy changes and funding needs are necessary to resolve this crisis. It is time for us to put partisan politics aside, lead on this issue, and find solutions that are acceptable to both sides of the aisle. Doing nothing is not an option. Sincerely, Henry Cuellar U.S. Congressman 28th District of Texas
08.06.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), co-chairs of the Texas Caucus on Shale Oil and Gas, hosted a briefing on crude oil exports for members of the Shale Oil and Gas Caucus and the Texas congressional delegation. The briefing, provided by the Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the Congressional Research Service (CRS), focused on the crude export ban and the recent Commerce ruling allowing condensate exports. “Today, Texas is the leading crude oil-producing state in the nation,” said Congressman Cuellar . “The Eagle Ford Shale region, which I represent, supported more than 86,000 jobs in the region in 2012, providing $3.3 billion in salaries, $347 million in state revenue, and $800 million in local government revenue. It is no wonder why many analysts call North America the new Middle East for oil. I thank Senator John Cornyn for partnering with me to host this briefing as well as the Energy Information Administration and the Congressional Research Service for providing the latest updates.” Members of the Texas Shale Oil and Gas Caucus and the Texas Congressional Delegation received a briefing on crude oil exports from the Energy Information Administration and the Congressional Research Service. Rep. Cuellar and Senator Cornyn participate in the Texas Shale Oil and Gas Caucus briefing on crude oil exports. Presenters from EIA and CRS provided an overview of current and projected production and demand trends for crude and refined products, anticipated market response to the ruling, as well as related policy considerations. The purpose of the Texas Caucus on Shale Oil & Gas (TSCOG) is to serve as an educational resource focusing on shale oil and gas production in Texas for Members of Congress.
08.06.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced a new analysis that demonstrates the comprehensive benefits taxpayers in the 28th District of Texas are receiving from the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Because of Affordable Care Act, millions of Texans have seen the benefits of lower costs and better coverage,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The area I represent along the US-Mexico border includes counties with some of the highest rate of uninsured Americans in the country. I am committed to working in Washington to ensure that South Texans have access to affordable and quality healthcare.” To date, more than 8 million Americans have signed up for private coverage through the Marketplaces, more than 3 million young adults gained coverage through their parents’ plans, and hundreds of millions of Americans with employer-based coverage and Medicare have improved benefits. In addition, because of the law, Americans can never again be discriminated against because of a pre-existing condition, women can never be charged more for coverage because of their gender, and Americans will never be sold health insurance policies that disappear when they need coverage most A new analysis prepared by the Minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee provides estimates of the benefits taxpayers in the 28th District of Texas, the area I represent, have received: · Coverage for 16,700 previously uninsured individuals in my congressional district. There are 16,700 individuals in my district who were previously uninsured but now have quality, affordable health coverage because of the Affordable Care Act. Overall, the number of uninsured district residents has declined by 8%. · Marketplace coverage for 27,800 individuals in my congressional district. Under the health care law, enrollment in new Health Insurance Marketplaces opened in October 2013, with coverage beginning in January 2014. Approximately 27,800 individuals in my congressional district have purchased quality, affordable coverage through the new Marketplaces. For 84 % of the individuals enrolled in the Health Insurance Marketplaces, financial assistance was available that substantially reduced the cost of the average plan to $72 per month. · Medicaid coverage for an additional 50,000 individuals in my congressional district. The health care law includes provisions that give states the option to expand Medicaid. As a result, an additional 50,000 individuals in my congressional district have enrolled in Medicaid since ACA enrollment began in October 2013. · Coverage for 9,400 additional young adults in my congressional district. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 9,400 young adults in my congressional district have gained health care coverage. · Lower drug costs for 29,300 seniors in my congressional district. The health care law is providing major savings in drug costs for seniors in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, 29,300 seniors in my congressional district have received prescription drug discounts worth $3.7 million. · Free preventive services for 84,000 seniors in my congressional district. Since 2011, the health care law provides free Medicare coverage of preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. Because of this provision, 84,000 seniors in my congressional district are now eligible for Medicare preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance or deductible. · Free preventive services for 169,000 individuals in private plans in my congressional district. Since September 2010, the health care law also provides, for those enrolled in most private plans, free coverage of preventive services. As a result, 169,000 individuals in private plans – including 39,000 children and 67,000 women – now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductible. · Savings in premiums for 128,000 individuals in my congressional district. 128,000 individuals in the district have saved on their premiums due to ACA provisions that prevent insurers from spending more than 20% of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead. Because of these protections, over 29,300 consumers in the district received approximately $4.4 million in insurance company rebates in August 2013. · Protection for up to 54,000 children with pre-existing conditions in my congressional district. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from denying coverage to children for having a pre-existing health condition. Because of this provision, up to 54,000 children with pre-existing conditions in my congressional district are being protected from denial of coverage. · Elimination of lifetime and annual limits on coverage for 128,000 individuals in my congressional district. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage, and since January 2014, the law has also prohibited an annual limit. As a result, in my congressional district, 128,000 individuals no longer have either a lifetime or an annual limit imposed on their coverage.
08.01.2014	Tonight, the House of Representatives passed border supplemental funding that gives state and local governments and law enforcement affected by the current border crisis the opportunity to apply for reimbursements. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) worked to include this provision in the bill and last week sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee and the Federal Emergency Management Agency requesting reimbursements for local communities. The bill passed the House by a margin of 223-189. “These communities have expended hard-earned taxpayer dollars in support of law enforcement and community efforts to address the surge of unaccompanied minors crossing the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our local governments understand that our federal law enforcement is stretched thin at this time and they have stepped up to provide resources and assist where they can. This funding will be very beneficial for the communities I represent along the Texas-Mexico border, which I why I fought to include this provision in the final version of the legislation.” As part of the language, state and local law enforcement and public safety agencies within local units of government may apply for reimbursement of costs incurred for personnel, overtime, travel, costs related to combating illegal immigration and drug smuggling, and costs related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and family units who have entered the United States. The full text of Rep. Cuellar’s letter to the Appropriations Committee is included below and attached. Also attached are letters from the City of McAllen, City of Laredo, and the Webb County Sheriff’s Office with descriptions of the costs they have incurred. ############################################################################## July 24, 2014 The Honorable Hal Rogers Chairman House Appropriations Committee H-305, The Capitol Washington DC 20515 Dear Administrator Rogers: As you are aware the unprecedented number of undocumented immigrants arriving in South Texas, have created a humanitarian crisis on the border. Local governments, law enforcement agencies, non-profits and community partners have been providing support for the humanitarian relief effort, contributing personnel, equipment, and services. These generous communities have contributed food, medical, and transportation assistance as well as shelter and security. Unfortunately the continuous influx of undocumented immigrants has made this assistance unsustainable and caused an undue hardship to the local tax payer. The border communities in my district did not anticipate this expense and have contacted my office requesting federal financial assistance and reimbursement for the expenses incurred in response to this crisis. As the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, I urge you to consider every option at your disposal to provide assistance to these communities, including budgetary adjustments such as allocating unobligated funds to these communities and reprograming agency funds into programs in which these activities qualify as allowable uses. Please let us know of any resources these communities can access. Enclosed are letters I have received detailing some of the expenses incurred by the border communities. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. U.S. Congressman 28th District of Texas
07.30.2014	Following Rep. Cuellar’s letter last week to the Appropriations Committee requesting reimbursements for local communities, the Appropriations Committee today introduced legislation to address the humanitarian crisis at the southern border that provides the ability for local governments to apply for reimbursement. “I thank Chairman Hal Rogers, Chairman John Carter, and the Committee for working with me to include this important provision in the border funding bill,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These communities have expended hard-earned taxpayer dollars in support of law enforcement and community efforts to address the surge of unaccompanied minors crossing the border. Our local governments understand that our federal law enforcement is stretched thin at this time and they have stepped up to provide resources and assist where they can.” As part of the language, state and local law enforcement and public safety agencies within local units of government may apply for reimbursement of costs incurred for personnel, overtime, travel, costs related to combating illegal immigration and drug smuggling, and costs related to providing humanitarian relief to unaccompanied children and family units who have entered the United States. The full text of Rep. Cuellar’s letter to the Appropriations Committee is include below and attached. Also attached are letters from the City of McAllen, City of Laredo, and the Webb County Sheriff’s Office with descriptions of the costs they have incurred. ############################################################################ July 24, 2014 The Honorable Hal Rogers Chairman House Appropriations Committee H-305, The Capitol Washington DC 20515 Dear Administrator Rogers: As you are aware the unprecedented number of undocumented immigrants arriving in South Texas, have created a humanitarian crisis on the border. Local governments, law enforcement agencies, non-profits and community partners have been providing support for the humanitarian relief effort, contributing personnel, equipment, and services. These generous communities have contributed food, medical, and transportation assistance as well as shelter and security. Unfortunately the continuous influx of undocumented immigrants has made this assistance unsustainable and caused an undue hardship to the local tax payer. The border communities in my district did not anticipate this expense and have contacted my office requesting federal financial assistance and reimbursement for the expenses incurred in response to this crisis. As the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, I urge you to consider every option at your disposal to provide assistance to these communities, including budgetary adjustments such as allocating unobligated funds to these communities and reprograming agency funds into programs in which these activities qualify as allowable uses. Please let us know of any resources these communities can access. Enclosed are letters I have received detailing some of the expenses incurred by the border communities. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. U.S. Congressman 28th District of Texas
07.30.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) voted in favor of a bipartisan deal that will allow veterans who are facing long wait times or who live far from clinics to seek private care outside of the VA system. The vote passed the House by a margin of 420-5. “Today’s package will improve veterans’ access to healthcare service by giving them the option of seeking care outside of the VA system,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Delays in service to veterans are unacceptable and I have been concerned for some time about the allegations surrounding care at the VA. Since I was first elected to Congress, I have advocated for care closer to home for the veterans living in South Texas. Today’s deal especially benefits veterans in my district who live in rural areas, far from VA facilities and treatment. The deal brings us one step closer to ensuring that every man and woman who has fought for our country gets the care and support he or she needs close to home. I will work with the Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System and the South Texas VA to make sure this is implemented correctly.” Today’s deal includes $17 billion in additional funding to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Under the deal, veterans will be eligible to seek private care outside of the VA system if they meet the following criteria: 1) they are enrolled in a plan as of August 1, 2014, 2) they have attempted but are unable to receive an appointment within current wait time goals, or 3) they live more than 40 miles from a VA facility. This proposal also contains some other provisions: · Improve the delivery of care to veterans who experienced sexual trauma while serving in the military. · Expands the John David Fry Scholarship program to include surviving spouses of members of the armed forces who died in the line of duty. · Let all veterans qualify for in-state tuition under the Post 9/11 GI bill. · Extends a program, which is about to expire, that provides housing for veterans who are struggling with traumatic brain injury.
07.29.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Laredo International Airport has received $3.9 million in federal funds to update the airport’s infrastructure. These funds come from the Federal Aviation Administration and will be used to rehabilitate existing tarmac that was first constructed in 1943 and is not suited for heavy aircraft. “Laredo’s International Airport is a first class facility and today’s announcement will only further enhance the profile and quality of the facility,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Improved infrastructure in the airplane parking area will give the airport more capacity to serve larger aircrafts and enhance the safety of airport operations. This will allow for more trade and commerce to enter the United States through Laredo, benefitting our community and our taxpayers. I am very pleased to announce today’s federal funding for the Airport and I want to thank Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, City Manager Carlos Villarreal, the Laredo City Council, and Laredo International Airport Manager Jose Flores for their commitment to securing these resources for our city.” “These grants received by the City of Laredo International Airport only serve to enhance the capabilities of our airport to better serve cargo and people, securing our position as a leading airport in South Texas,” said City Manager Carlos Villarreal. “We thank Cong. Cuellar for all his work in making sure that Laredo is remembered in Washington, D.C. when federal dollars are doled out.” This grant will provide funding for Phase 8 of the project which includes the removal of existing apron asphalt and concrete sections. The apron sections will be replaced with concrete pavement. For more information on previous phases of funding from the Federal Aviation Administration for the Laredo International Airport, see Phase 7, and Phase 5&6.
07.25.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Hidalgo County has received $4.7 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement. This is an increase of more than $1.3 million from the Fiscal Year 2013 amount of $3.3 million. Statewide, Texas received $23.1 million law enforcement funding, an increase from $18 million in Fiscal Year 2013. “I am pleased to see an across the board increase in federal funding to our local law enforcement through the Stonegarden program,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcing as they address the humanitarian crisis we are currently facing at our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for increased funding for the men and women who work every day to keep our communities safe. Since 2009, Hidalgo County has received over $13 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Hidalgo County Sheriff Eddie Guerra, the Police Chiefs, as well as the men and women who do an excellent job in securing our communities.” The FY 2014 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. This year, Department of Homeland Security also allocated: · ­­Operation Stonegarden, Texas FY 14 $23,124,196 · Texas: FY13 $19,422,318 · FY 2014 State Homeland Security Program - Texas - $21,448,000 · FY 2013 State Homeland Security Program $18,650,481 · FY 14 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas $15,500,000 · Houston: $24,000,000 · San Antonio Area $1,000,000 · FY 13 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas: $14,622,684; · Houston: $23,936,523 · FY 14 Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $19,975,395 FY13 $18,833,958
07.25.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Starr County has received $2 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement. This is an increase of more than $1 million from the Fiscal Year 2013 amount of $1 million. Statewide, Texas received $23.1 million law enforcement funding, an increase from $18 million in Fiscal Year 2013. “I am pleased to see an across the board increase in federal funding to our local law enforcement through the Stonegarden program,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcing as they address the humanitarian crisis we are currently facing at our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for increased funding for the men and women who work every day to keep our communities safe. Since 2009, Starr County has received over $6.6 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Starr County Sheriff Rene Fuentes, Police Chiefs as well as the men and women who secure our communities.” The FY 2014 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. This year, Department of Homeland Security also allocated:Rio · ­­Operation Stonegarden, Texas FY 14 $23,124,196 · Texas: FY13 $19,422,318 · FY 2014 State Homeland Security Program - Texas - $21,448,000 · FY 2013 State Homeland Security Program $18,650,481 · FY 14 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas $15,500,000 · Houston: $24,000,000 · San Antonio Area $1,000,000 · FY 13 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas: $14,622,684; · Houston: $23,936,523 · FY 14 Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $19,975,395 FY13 $18,833,958
07.25.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Webb County has received $3.3 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement. This is an increase from the Fiscal Year 2013 amount of almost $2.8 million. Statewide, Texas received $23.1 million law enforcement funding, an increase from $18 million in Fiscal Year 2013. “I am pleased to see an across the board increase in federal funding to our local law enforcement through the Stonegarden program,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcing as they address the humanitarian crisis we are currently facing at our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for increased funding for the men and women who work every day to keep our communities safe. Since 2009, Webb County has received over $18 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, the Police Chiefs, as well as the men and women who do an excellent job in securing our communities.” “I appreciate the hard work of Congressman Cuellar and his staff in working with the Department of Homeland Security to secure more Stonegarden funds,” said Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “These additional resources will help secure our community and keep our citizens safe.” The FY 2014 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. This year, Department of Homeland Security also allocated: · ­­Operation Stonegarden, Texas FY 14 $23,124,196 · Texas: FY13 $19,422,318 · FY 2014 State Homeland Security Program - Texas - $21,448,000 · FY 2013 State Homeland Security Program $18,650,481 · FY 14 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas $15,500,000 · Houston: $24,000,000 · San Antonio Area $1,000,000 · FY 13 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas: $14,622,684; · Houston: $23,936,523 · FY 14 Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $19,975,395 · FY13 $18,833,958
07.25.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Zapata County has received over $442,000 in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement. This is a slight increase from the Fiscal Year 2013 amount of $441,000. Statewide, Texas received $23.1 million law enforcement funding, an increase from $18 million in Fiscal Year 2013. “I am pleased to see an across the board increase in federal funding to our local law enforcement through the Stonegarden program,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcing as they address the humanitarian crisis we are currently facing at our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for increased funding for the men and women who work every day to keep our communities safe. Since 2009, Zapata County has received almost $5 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Zapata County Sheriff Alonso Lopez as well as the men and women who secure our communities.” The FY 2014 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. This year, Department of Homeland Security also allocated: · ­­Operation Stonegarden, Texas FY 14 $23,124,196 · Texas: FY13 $19,422,318 · FY 2014 State Homeland Security Program - Texas - $21,448,000 · FY 2013 State Homeland Security Program $18,650,481 · FY 14 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas $15,500,000 · Houston: $24,000,000 · San Antonio Area $1,000,000 · FY 13 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas: $14,622,684; · Houston: $23,936,523 · FY 14 Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $19,975,395 · FY13 $18,833,958
07.24.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) met personally with Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández Alvarado to discuss the immigration crisis at the Texas-Mexico border. President Hernández was also joined by the Vice President of Honduras Ricardo Antonio Álvarez Arias, the Secretary Coordinator General of Government (Prime Minister) Rigoberto Chang Castillo, and the Secretary of Security Arturo Corrales. “The immigration crisis at the United States’ southern border demands a regional response and collaboration that is thoughtful and effective,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I had a productive discussion this morning with President Hernández about the crisis at the border. We agree the wellbeing of children crossing the border unaccompanied should be a top priority. We also discussed necessary steps moving forward, including long term solutions to address poverty and violence in Central America, and how our governments can work together to ensure a safe environment for children returning home. We are committed to working closely together to address the root causes of the current immigration crisis and ensure that a clear message is sent to trafficking organizations that they cannot continue to exploit young, innocent children.” Congressman Cuellar met privately with Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez Alvarado to discuss the immigration crisis at the southern border. On June 28, Congressman Cuellar invited the First Lady of Honduras, Ana Garcia de Hernández, to tour the McAllen Border Patrol Facility and the Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, which is housing many of the unaccompanied children. Rep. Cuellar has been in regular communication with the Embassies and Ambassadors of Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Mexico to discussion solutions to the issue at the border. In July, Congressman Cuellar travelled to Honduras and Guatemala with Congresswoman Kay Granger (R-TX12), Chairwoman of the Working Group on the southern border crisis.
07.24.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that Webb County has received $3.3 million in federal funds from the Department of Homeland Security’s Stonegarden program to support local law enforcement. This is an increase from the Fiscal Year 2013 amount of almost $2.8 million. Statewide, Texas received $23.1 million law enforcement funding, an increase from $18 million in Fiscal Year 2013. “I am pleased to see an across the board increase in federal funding to our local law enforcement through the Stonegarden program,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These additional funds will help reimburse local law enforcing as they address the humanitarian crisis we are currently facing at our southern border. As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for increased funding for the men and women who work every day to keep our communities safe. Since 2009, Webb County has received over $18 million in Operation Stonegarden funds. I want to thank the Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, the Police Chiefs, as well as the men and women who do an excellent job in securing our communities.” “I appreciate the hard work of Congressman Cuellar and his staff in working with the Department of Homeland Security to secure more Stonegarden funds,” said Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “These additional resources will help secure our community and keep our citizens safe.” The FY 2014 Operation Stonegarden (OPSG) program provides $55,000,000 to enhance cooperation and coordination among local, tribal, territorial, State, and Federal law enforcement agencies in a joint mission to secure the United States’ borders along routes of ingress from international borders to include travel corridors in States bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as States and territories with international water borders. This year, Department of Homeland Security also allocated: · ­­Operation Stonegarden, Texas FY 14 $23,124,196 · Texas: FY13 $19,422,318 · FY 2014 State Homeland Security Program - Texas - $21,448,000 · FY 2013 State Homeland Security Program $18,650,481 · FY 14 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas $15,500,000 · Houston: $24,000,000 · San Antonio Area $1,000,000 · FY 13 Urban Areas Security Initiative – · Dallas: $14,622,684; · Houston: $23,936,523 · FY 14 Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $19,975,395 · FY13 $18,833,958
07.22.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Border Trade Alliance and the South Texas Property Rights Association have endorsed the Humane Act, legislation jointly sponsored by Rep. Cuellar and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) to address the border crisis. The Humane Act would: · Treat all unaccompanied minors equally under the law · Provide a fair and timely hearing before a judge for minors who have a claim · Provide resources for Texas humanitarian relief, border security, and ports of entry The BTA endorsement may be found HERE and the STPRA may be found HERE.
07.21.2014	On Monday, July 21st, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined American Legion Post 38 to present seven awards to Wilson County veteran, Mr. Pedro Devora. Mr. Devora contacted Congressman Cuellar’s office last November to inquire about awards he did not receive upon his discharge from the Navy. Rep. Cuellar’s constituent caseworker worked with the Department of the Navy to ensure Mr. Devora received the medals he had earned during his service. “It gives me great honor to present these medals, ribbons, stars and pin to Mr. Devora which signify his heroic service to our nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The awards he is receiving today are an indication that his valiant service to our country has not gone unnoticed. His bravery while fighting for the freedom we all deserve is being recognized today.” Mr. Devora served during World War II, aboard the U.S.S. Sangmon. He participated in the invasion in Okinawa on Easter Sunday – April 1, 1945 and has already been honored by the Mariana Islands Government with the World War II Victory Medal, Philippine Presidential Unit Citation and Philippine Liberation Medal (with one Bronze Star) for his heroism in the Pacific Theatre and deliverance from the Empire of Japan. The awards he is receiving today are: World War II Victory Medal American Campaign Medal Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal (with one bronze star appurtenance) Presidential Unit Citation Ribbon Combat Action Ribbon Discharge Button Honorable Service Lapel Pin (with Ruptured Duck)
07.18.2014	This past week, Congressman Henry Cuellar succeeded in reinstating $5 million in federal funding to the United States-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program for Fiscal Year 2015. The U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program provides grant assistance to underserved communities along the US-Mexico border for the planning, design and construction of infrastructure to provide safe drinking water and adequate sanitation, and to achieve water quality standards. “The South Texas region I represent includes many colonia communities that lack adequate water, housing, and sewage facilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In Texas alone, over 400,000 people live in colonias and improving water quality in these communities is an issue I have worked on for more than 20 years. The US-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program is a vital resources for communities to seek assistance as a last resort when utilities, cities, or states are not able to fully finance necessary infrastructure improvements. I would like to thank the Appropriations Committee, especially Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert (R-CA) and Ranking Member Jim Moran (D-VA) for their support in reinstating this funding.” To view Rep. Cuellar full statement in the Appropriations Committee, click HERE:
07.14.2014	Tomorrow, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security, will introduce the Helping Unaccompanied Minors and Alleviating National Emergency (HUMANE) Act, legislation designed to reform current law and solve the ongoing humanitarian crisis on our Southern Border. “The border region in Texas has been overwhelmed over the past few months by a deluge of undocumented immigrants from Central America,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This legislation strengthens current law protecting unaccompanied children and responds to the crisis while supporting the men and women of Border Patrol. I would like to thank Senator John Cornyn for partnering with me on this legislation and I ask my colleagues in the House and Senate to act quickly on this bill.” “Today Congressman Cuellar and I are proposing a solution to the current crisis on our border,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Our proposal would improve the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2008, treating all unaccompanied minors equally and ensuring Due Process under the law in a timely, fair manner.” The HUMANE Act would: · Improve the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) of 2008—treating all unaccompanied migrant children crossing our border with equality under the law, and allowing for voluntary reunification with family, whether they are from Mexico, Central America, or any other country. · Keep current protections for safe repatriation. · Allow unaccompanied migrant children who have a claim to remain legally in the United States to make this claim in court before an immigration judge within 7 days of the completion of Health and Human Services screening under the TVPRA of 2008. It authorizes up to 40 new immigration judges for this purpose, and keeps current law in place requiring HHS to make all efforts to secure pro-bono legal counsel for the child. · Require immigration judges to make a determination as to whether an unaccompanied migrant child is eligible to remain in the United States within 72 hours of making their claim. Children who succeed in their claim will be allowed to remain in the United States in the custody of a sponsor while they pursue their legal remedies. Children who do not successfully make such a claim will be reunited with family in their home country. · Require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide unaccompanied migrant children with protective shelter while they are awaiting their initial hearing in court before a judge. · Allow access to these expedited court hearings for unaccompanied migrant children who have already been released to sponsors with notices to appear in immigration court. · Require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct FBI fingerprint background checks on any person taking custody of an unaccompanied alien child. Prohibits the Secretary from releasing children to persons convicted of sex offenses and human trafficking. · Require a plan and provide for additional resources necessary for operational control of our southern border.
07.03.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (DTX-28) joined the United States Department of Agriculture to break ground on a $6.2 million federally funded project to renovate the Ebony Street drainage system in Roma. These Rural Development funds will be used for storm drainage construction to correct major flooding to residents in the area on Ebony Road. This will improve community access, as well as improve safety and health by stabilizing existing unpaved roadway. “I would like to congratulate the city of Roma for beginning this infrastructure update that will greatly benefit the community. This city received over $6 million in federal funding that will ensure that Roma residents and their property are protected from major rainfall,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (DTX-28). “My office has been working with the city of Roma and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for many years and I would like to thank USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin, as well as Mayor Guerra.” “USDA Rural Development is pleased to assist the City of Roma with funding to update storm drainage systems which will improve public safety and health standards for its community members,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “Up to date, the Ebony Avenue project is the most ambitious project the city of Roma has undertaken,” said Mayor Jose A. Guerra, Jr. “Congressman Cuellar has been very adamant about providing relief since the floods of 2008. This project will go a long way towards alleviating the damage caused by those floods.” Through funds provided by the American Recovery Reinvestment Act, which Congressman Cuellar voted for in 2009, the USDA was able to aid in a project that was sorely needed. The project entails: $1.1 million dollars for roadway improvements that includes 1.45 miles of Asphalt and 7,650 linear feet of sidewalk; $3.2 million dollars for drainage improvements that includes a storm sewer, 2 detention ponds; and 42 manholes and $232 thousand dollars for Utility Replacement and Adjustments that includes water meter adjustments and the replacing of waterlines.
07.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that he has successfully included language in the Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations Bill that will direct the Department of Defense to create an inventory of all overseas military installations and property in an effort to prioritize the closing of overseas bases before any domestic bases. This report will be used in future Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commissions (BRAC) to evaluate the closing of bases. Rep. Cuellar included similar language in last year’s Appropriations Omnibus bill, which passed the House in January, 2014. “As a representative of Military City USA, I am committed to protecting the civilian and military jobs at the military bases in San Antonio,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I fought to include language in the Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations Bill for the second year in a row that would help in the effort to prioritize closing overseas bases before domestic ones. I thank Chairman Hal Rogers, Ranking Member Nita Lowey, Chairman of the Defense Subcommittee Rodney Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member of the Defense Subcommittee Pete Visclosky for working with me to secure this language.” American military forces and installations have a large impact on the economy of our Texas communities. In Texas there are over 250,000 Department of Defense personnel supporting a total economic output of nearly $149 billion. In San Antonio alone, our military bases support nearly 300,000 direct and indirect jobs in the surrounding communities, contributing over $46 billion in economic output. Rep. Cuellar’s language passed out of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and will now be included in the FY15 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill when it heads to the House Floor for a full vote.
07.03.2014	Last week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) successfully included language in the FY15 Homeland Security Appropriations bill that calls for a review of Customs and Border Protection officer training to ensure agents act with the highest degree of professionalism. This new language requires the Commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection to review training manuals and coursework as well as incident reporting practices within the agency. The focus of this language is to make sure that the Border Patrol officials are trained to interact respectfully with those crossing the border and with their partners in the community. Furthermore, the addition to the bill asks that CBP report to the Committee on their findings of their review. “The taxpayers living in my district and along the border interact with agents from Customs and Border Protection on a regular basis,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have great confidence and respect for the men and women at Customs Border Protection that work at our ports of entry. I believe that the inclusion of this language will establish the highest standard of professionalism in how our Border Patrol Agents and Customs officers are trained, ensuring that the officers treat all individuals with dignity and respect.” Next, the FY15 Homeland Security Appropriation Act will move to the House floor for consideration.
06.27.2014	Within one week of meeting one on one with Honduran Ambassador to the United States, Jorge Milla Reyes, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will be joined this Saturday by the First Lady of Honduras, Ana Garcia de Hernandez as well as Ambassador Milla Reyes to tour the Border Patrol Facility in McAllen and the Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio that is housing unaccompanied minors. Rep. Cuellar will also host Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX12) of the State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee at both tours. Chairwoman Granger was recently appointed by House Speaker John Boehner to chair a working group on the humanitarian crisis at the southern border. These visits are a follow up to Rep. Cuellar’s June 14th tour of the McAllen Border Patrol facility, in which he invited local officials and met with Border Patrol agents, unaccompanied children, and immigrant families. Congressman Cuellar was the first Member of Congress to visit the site and this will be the first time a representative of one of the Central American countries that are part of the surge of unaccompanied minors will visit the border. Rep. Cuellar, the Honduran delegation, and Chairman Granger will tour the McAllen Border Patrol facility in the morning and Lackland in the afternoon on Saturday. Press availability will be hosted in both cities following the tours. EVENT 1: WHAT: McAllen Border Patrol Facility Press Conference WHO: Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX12) of the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee First Lady of Honduras, Ana Garcia de Hernandez Ambassador of Honduras, Jorge Milla Reyes WHEN: Saturday, June 28th 10:15am-11am CT WHERE: McAllen Chamber of Commerce 1200 Ash Avenue McAllen, Texas 78501 EVENT 2: WHAT: Lackland Air Force Base Press Conference WHO: Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) WHEN: Saturday, June 28th 4:30pm-5:15pmCT WHERE: Lackland Visitors Center 1701 Kenly Avenue San Antonio, Texas 78236
06.26.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement today on the passage of the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Fiscal Year 2015 budget out of Committee: “This week, I worked with the Appropriations Committee to boost funding and support to Mexico and Central America that will increase our ability to stem the flow of illegal immigration and unaccompanied minors crossing our southern border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This additional language directs the Secretary of State to work with Central American countries to educate their citizens on the dangers posed by transnational criminal organizations and to accurately explain the immigration laws of the United States. We are witnessing a humanitarian and resource crisis at the border and we can no longer afford to play defense on the United States-Mexico border. We must take firm action to stem the flow of illegal immigration at its source and I feel that this week’s Committee action takes a strong step towards addressing the problem. I would like to thank Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, Ranking Member Nita Lowey, and Chairwoman of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee Kay Granger for their efforts on this critical issue.” The language included in the State Department budget provides $120 million in support of the following initiatives for Mexico and Central American countries: $88,000,000 for enhanced border security initiatives, with a focus on the southern border of Mexico; $20,000,000 to combat human trafficking and smuggling; $10,000,000 to support the repatriation and reintegration of citizens from such countries; and $2,000,000 to support a regional dialogue on these issues. To view Rep. Cuellar’s full remarks in the Appropriations Committee, click HERE.
06.25.2014	Rep. Cuellar: DoD In Final Stages of Bringing Approx. 124 New Jobs to Joint Base San Antonio San Antonio, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that the Department of Defense is in the final stages of adding approximately 124 new high skilled, cybersecurity positions to Joint Base San Antonio. “I am happy to announce that Joint Base San Antonio will soon gain approximately 124 additional high skilled positions,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a representative of Military City USA, I am committed to supporting the men and women who work every day to keep our country safe and I am pleased to see this investment in our community from the Department of Defense. I thank the San Antonio Congressional delegation, including Rep. Joaquin Castro, Rep. Pete Gallego, Rep. Lamar Smith, and Rep. Lloyd Doggett as well as Senator John Cornyn and Senator Ted Cruz for working together to acquire these new jobs.” The personnel will be part of the Cyber Management Force and will be a collection of Air Force Cybersecurity and National Security Agency personnel. Joint Base San Antonio is one of two bases receiving the new personnel, in addition to Scott Air Force Base in Illinois.
06.25.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) sent letters to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee and Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Craig Fugate requesting financial assistance and reimbursement for communities affected by the current border humanitarian crisis. Rep. Cuellar’s packet to Secretary Fugate and the Appropriations Committee included letters from the City of McAllen, City of Laredo, and Webb County Sheriff’s Office detailing costs incurred by each entity. “Since the border humanitarian crisis began, local governments, non-profit organizations, law enforcement, and community partners have been shouldering a large and unexpected cost,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These communities have expended hard-earned taxpayer dollars in support of law enforcement and community efforts to address the surge of unaccompanied minors crossing the border. These communities along the border which I represent have taken it upon themselves to provide support where they can. They understand these children are coming to the U.S. border and need care. Our local governments and non-profits understand our federal law enforcement are stretched thin during this surge and they have stepped up to provide resources and assist where they can. Today, I asked Administrator Fugate for his support for the many communities and non-profits in my congressional district and to do his utmost to secure reimbursements for the costs they have incurred.” The full text of Congressman Cuellar’s letter and letters from the City of McAllen, City of Laredo, and Webb County Sheriff’s Office are attached here. The full text of Rep. Cuellar’s letter is below. ############################################################################## July 24, 2014 Hon. W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Administration 500 C Street SW Washington DC 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate: As you are aware the unprecedented number of undocumented immigrants arriving in South Texas, have created a humanitarian crisis on the border. Local governments, law enforcement agencies, non-profits and community partners have been providing support for the humanitarian relief effort, contributing personnel, equipment, and services. These generous communities have contributed food, medical, and transportation assistance as well as shelter and security. Unfortunately the continuous influx of undocumented immigrants has made this assistance unsustainable and caused an undue hardship to the local tax payer. The border communities in my district did not anticipate this expense and have contacted my office requesting federal financial assistance and reimbursement for the expenses incurred in response to this crisis. As the Federal Coordinating Official for the Department of Homeland Security, I urge you to consider every option at your disposal to provide assistance to these communities, including budgetary adjustments such as allocating unobligated funds to these communities and reprograming agency funds into programs in which these activities qualify as allowable uses. Please let us know of any resources these communities can access. Enclosed are letters I have received detailing some of the expenses incurred by the border communities. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. U.S. Congressman 28th District of Texas ###
06.20.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement in response to the announcement by the White House of changed policy: “I am pleased to see that the Administration is finally taking some steps to address the crisis caused by the flood of undocumented immigrants and unaccompanied children from Central America arriving at the Texas-Mexico border. Many of the ideas they included are suggestions I proposed at the end of May in a letter I sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and the Appropriations Committee. My letter called for the establishment of a multi-agency “one stop shop” at the border in which the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Justice would work jointly to ensure all elements of the adjudication and removal process can be completed at a central location on the border. I am encouraged that the Administration has announced policy changes today that reflect our shared commitment to: 1) Manage the process of detaining, processing, and removing illegal immigrants and unaccompanied children as humanely as possible 2) Surge the capacity to remove family units more quickly and expand the use of ankle bracelets as forms of alternatives to detention 3) Reassign immigration judges and officers to the Rio Grande on an emergency basis to speed cases in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas 4) Offer assistance to Central America to expand repatriation and address the underlying causes of illegal immigration to the United States 5) Amplify the message that unaccompanied children and immigrants from Central American will not be allowed to remain in the United States as soon as they cross the border I am also pleased that Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is traveling to South Texas today to visit the Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio and the Border Patrol facility in the Rio Grande Valley. I spoke to Secretary Johnson in person yesterday and discussed the need to fully assess the federal response to the crisis on the border and I was encouraged by his response.” As of June 18th, there were over 3,100 unaccompanied children in Customs and Border Protection custody along the Southwest Border and over 1,800 in the Rio Grande Valley. The Department of Health and Human Services is currently housing over 7,800 unaccompanied children in facilities across the country.
06.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security today wrote to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson regarding the growing humanitarian crisis along Texas’ Southern border. The letter poses a series of questions related to the nearly 50,000 unaccompanied children who have been apprehended at the Southern border, including whether there are measures in place to track the children’s whereabouts following release from the Department of Health and Human Services and how we can be assured they do not have criminal records or gang affiliations. “Does DHS have any measures in places to track unaccompanied children after they are placed in the custody of HHS or a guardian designated by that Department? If not, then how does your Department help ensure that they do not end up in the hands of predators or sex offenders? If the child does not show up for their immigration court proceedings, do DHS officials check up on them to make sure that they are safe? Do DHS and HHS share any information about the child’s guardian or whereabouts after they are released from HHS custody?” “How many unaccompanied alien children with criminal records, gang affiliations, or suspected involvement in criminal activity have been apprehended at the Southern Border this Fiscal Year? Does DHS transfer these individuals to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) custody prior to the completion of their removal proceedings?” The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Secretary Johnson: As you are aware, the Southern Border is currently ground-zero for a growing humanitarian crisis. Since October, nearly 50,000 unaccompanied children have been apprehended at the Southern border after making a treacherous journey from Central America through regions of Mexico controlled by drug cartels like the Zetas. The children who have made this journey are alone and vulnerable—facing the threat of murder, kidnapping, rape, sexual slavery, and forced labor at the hands of these savage criminal organizations. Last year, Time magazine reported that “Cartels control most of Mexico’s smuggling networks through which victims are moved, while they also take money from pimps and brothels operating in their territories.” Human rights organizations and academics estimate that as many as six in 10 women and girl migrants experience sexual violence during the journey through Mexico. This is especially troubling given the recent increase in the number of unaccompanied alien children who are girls and who are under the age of 13. As the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security, and a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, we ask that you work with us to ensure the American people that your Department has achieved control of this humanitarian crisis by providing prompt responses to the following questions: 1. Do you agree that the human smuggling networks and corridors being used by unaccompanied children are operated by drug cartels, who regularly engage in sex trafficking, kidnapping, child exploitation, and murder? Is travel through these corridors ever safe for an unaccompanied child? 2. Since October 2013, approximately 50,000 unaccompanied alien children have been apprehended at our Southern border—the majority of whom began their journey in Central America. If 50,000 of these children were able to make the long and dangerous journey to our Southern border, we are concerned that many never made it to America because of murder, kidnapping, human trafficking, or other violent crime. Does the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) have any estimates of the number of unaccompanied alien children who suffered this fate? 3. What percentage of unaccompanied alien children apprehended at the Southern Border this Fiscal Year were the victims of violent crime or exploitation while traveling through Mexico? 4. What percentage of unaccompanied alien children apprehended at the Southern Border during this Fiscal Year applied for asylum? What percentage of these children received such relief? 5. What is the average age of the unaccompanied alien children who have illegally crossed the Southern Border since October 2013? How does DHS verify that all persons claiming to be an unaccompanied alien child are, in fact, less than 18 years of age? 6. How many unaccompanied alien children with criminal records, gang affiliations, or suspected involvement in criminal activity have been apprehended at the Southern Border this Fiscal Year? Does DHS transfer these individuals to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) custody prior to the completion of their removal proceedings? 7. How many unaccompanied alien children who have been released from DHS custody with a Notice to Appear this Fiscal Year have absconded from their immigration court proceedings? How many have been paroled into the United States? How many have voluntarily departed the United States? How many have been subjected to expedited removal? 8. Does DHS have any measures in places to track unaccompanied children after they are placed in the custody of HHS or a guardian designated by that Department? If not, then how does your Department help ensure that they do not end up in the hands of predators or sex offenders? If the child does not show up for their immigration court proceedings, do DHS officials check up on them to make sure that they are safe? Do DHS and HHS share any information about the child’s guardian or whereabouts after they are released from HHS custody? 9. Has the surge in illegal border crossers and the number of unaccompanied alien children apprehended by DHS diverted critical resources away from your Department’s border security and national security objectives? What is your Department’s plan to ensure than transnational criminal organizations do not exploit the vulnerabilities exposed by the crisis on our Southern border? 10. To date, what is the estimated financial impact of this crisis on our home state of Texas? What are you doing to ensure that Texas officials are reimbursed for the costs imposed on them by your Department’s failure to control the border? 11. How many unaccompanied alien children do you estimate that DHS will apprehend at the Southern Border during Fiscal Year 2014? Do you estimate that this number will increase in Fiscal Year 2015, and if so, by how much? 12. What process is available for state and local entities and non-profit organizations to offer their services and facilities to assist in this effort? I appreciate your cooperation and look forward to receiving your responses by July 2nd, 2014. Sincerely,
06.18.2014	This morning, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) met one on one with Honduran Ambassador Jorge Alberto Milla Reyes to discuss protocols for dealing with unaccompanied child immigrants in the wake of a wave of immigrant crossings from Central America that has overwhelmed Border Patrol resources. “We are experiencing a humanitarian crisis on the border but lack the necessary policies to address it,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In my meeting today with the Honduran Ambassador, we established our shared commitment to combatting illegal migration from Central American to the United States and our desire to work jointly to oppose the smuggling organizations that have sent thousands of unaccompanied children across the border since the beginning of the year. Our nations must work together along with other Central American countries and Mexico to combat illegal immigration at its source and not at the U.S.-Mexico border.” Rep. Cuellar meets with Honduran Ambassador Jorge Alberto Milla Reyes to discuss child migrant protocols. In the past few days, Congressman Cuellar has also had conversations with the Ambassadors of Guatemala and El Salvador as well as the Embassy of Mexico. Over 70% of the current influx of migrants and unaccompanied children at the southern border are from countries other than Mexico. Strong protocols are already in place for the repatriation of Mexican nationals, as Mexico is contiguous to the United States, but there is a need to develop similar protocols with Central American countries.
06.18.2014	U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security yesterday wrote to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell regarding the growing humanitarian crisis along Texas’ Southern border. The letter poses a series of questions related to the nearly 50,000 unaccompanied children who have been apprehended at the Southern border, including whether there are measures in place to track their whereabouts and safety following release from HHS custody. “Does HHS conduct criminal background checks and national security checks on guardians prior to releasing unaccompanied alien children to their custody? … In the past Fiscal Year, has HHS released any unaccompanied alien children into the custody of a person with a criminal record? If so, how many of these children have been released to such individuals? What types of crimes have these individuals committed?” The full text of the letter is below and attached. June 18, 2014 The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary of Health and Human Services The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Secretary Burwell: As you are aware, the Southern Border is currently ground-zero for a growing humanitarian crisis. Since October, nearly 50,000 unaccompanied children have been apprehended at the Southern border after making a treacherous journey from Central America through regions of Mexico controlled by drug cartels like the Zetas. The children who have made this journey are alone and vulnerable—facing the threat of murder, kidnapping, rape, sexual slavery, and forced labor at the hands of these savage criminal organizations. Last year, Time magazine reported that “Cartels control most of Mexico’s smuggling networks through which victims are moved, while they also take money from pimps and brothels operating in their territories.” Human rights organizations and academics estimate that as many as six in 10 women and girl migrants experience sexual violence during the journey through Mexico. This is especially troubling given the recent increase in the number of unaccompanied alien children who are girls and who are under the age of 13. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has an important role to play in helping to resolve this humanitarian crisis. As the agency designated by statute with maintaining custody of unaccompanied alien children after initial processing by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), your Department must help ensure that these children are kept safe, treated fairly, and remain in compliance with our immigration process and laws. As Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security and as a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, we ask that you work with us to ensure the American people that your Department is mitigating this growing humanitarian crisis in the most efficient and effective way possible. To help us conduct oversight of the Administration’s response to this crisis, we would appreciate your prompt response to the following questions: Does HHS conduct criminal background checks and national security checks on guardians prior to releasing unaccompanied alien children to their custody? If so, what databases are queried during these checks? Do these checks involve the collection or verification of biometric information? How does HHS verify the claim of a prospective guardian that they are biologically related to the unaccompanied alien child of which they wish to take custody? What measures does HHS take to rescreen unaccompanied alien children being placed in its custody for evidence of human trafficking or sexual exploitation? During this Fiscal Year, how many unaccompanied alien children in HHS custody has the Department determined were victims of these crimes during their journey to the United States? During this Fiscal Year, how many unaccompanied alien children placed in HHS custody have received a T-visa, U-visa, asylum, or refugee status In the past Fiscal Year, has HHS released any unaccompanied alien children into the custody of a person with a criminal record? If so, how many of these children have been released to such individuals? What types of crimes have these individuals committed? Does HHS have any measures in place to regularly verify the safety of unaccompanied alien children who have been released into the custody of guardians? How often is this information verified? Does HHS re-take custody of the child if evidence suggests the child is living in unsafe conditions? During the past Fiscal Year, how many unaccompanied alien children placed in the custody of a guardian by the Department have been the victims of crime or exploitation subsequent to such placement? How many of these cases involve abuse or exploitation by the guardian themselves? Does HHS currently have any policy preventing the release of an unaccompanied alien child to a guardian who was involved in smuggling the child into the United States? Does HHS screen for this information, and if so, how? What measures does HHS take to ensure that unaccompanied alien children in the custody of the Department or a guardian designated by the Department comply with our immigration laws and respond to Notices to Appear in immigration court? Does HHS share records with DHS concerning the whereabouts of unaccompanied alien children who have been released to the custody of a guardian? Does HHS ensure that persons taking guardianship of an unaccompanied alien child are fully informed about the child’s immigration status, including any Notices to Appear in immigration court that have been issued to the child? We appreciate your cooperation and respectfully request your responses by July 2, 2014.
06.16.2014	On Saturday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) toured the Border Patrol facility in McAllen, Texas, meeting with the agents stationed there and speaking to the adults and unaccompanied children housed there. He was joined by local officials from the Rio Grande Valley, including State Senator Eddie Lucio, D-Brownsville, State Reps. Sergio Muñoz, D-Mission, Terry Canales, D-Edinburg, and Hidalgo County Judge Ramon Garcia. “This Saturday, I asked state and local officials from the Rio Grande Valley to join me in a tour so they could see firsthand the crisis we are witnessing on the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In speaking to Border Patrol today, they commented to me that we cannot enforce ourselves out of this problem. We need a change of policy and we need to find long term solutions. I want to thank the men and women of Border Patrol for work they have done in the face of an extremely difficult situation. We have a humanitarian obligation to children who are crossing our border unaccompanied and I feel that Border Patrol, ICE, FEMA, HHS, and the Coast Guard are doing all that they can under the circumstances to ensure every migrant is treated with dignity and respect. There is no strong protocol in place for dealing with Central American immigrants and some of the most important work left is to improve the process for returning them to their home countries. The United States needs to do a better job in working with Mexico to strengthen their southern border and to work with the Central American countries of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. In the past few days, I have personally spoken to the Ambassadors of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras and the Embassy of Mexico and I will continue working with them to address the problem jointly with a shared responsibility.” Rep. Cuellar spoke with a number of children and adults at the McAllen Border Patrol facility as well as Border Patrol agents. Please see below for notes from his interviews: UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN AND ADULT MIGRANTS 1. Wendy · 14 years old · Came with sister (age 17) and nephew (10 months old) · From El Salvador · Took 8 days to get from El Salvador to USA · Has her mother in Virginia i. Mother knows she was coming ii. She only has her phone number · She had a really bad stomach ache and headache · She spent a whole day on the US side before being captured · She left because of the violence in El Salvador · Wants to go to school · She used to live with her grandma 2. Christian Daniel · 14 years old · From El Salvador · Came with sister (11 years old) · They paid to come here i. Could not remember amount · Has a father in Columbus, OH · He investigated and knew it was “easier” through the Texas border · Says he came here to study 3. Emilia · 9 years old · Honduras · She spent 1 day lost in the border · Has a grandma in the North Carolina · Says she came here to go to school · She used to live with aunt i. She doesn’t know her mom and her dad passed away 4. Andy · 11 years old · Honduras · Lost on the border for ½ hour before being caught by Border Patrol 5. Miguel · 14 years old · From El Salvador · 25 days to get from El Salvador to the US · Did not hire anyone, came here just asking questions · Came with no family · His mother is in Los Angeles · Crossed through Texas because it was easier i. He investigated by himself 6. Domitilla · 14 years old · From Guatemala · Took 20 days to get from Guatemala to USA · Has her Uncle , not sure or won’t say where i. Has not been in communication with family · She was apprehensive, not willing to talk about mistreatment from coyotes · She left because of the violence in Guatemala and for a chance at a better life in the US, suffered from exhaustion, “forced to walk for miles and run to hide from authorities” slept outside in the heat. 7. Abel · 15 years old · From El Salvador · Uncle in Florida · 15 days from El Salvador to United States · has not been able to communicate with his family · Coyotes decided where to cross on Texas border 8. Elvis · 16 years old · El Salvador · 17 days from EL Salvador to United States · Uncle in Los Angeles · Says he came here to escape violence, gangs had killed a friend and was told he was next , also wants to work, no jobs at home · Was injury running from coyotes and border patrol, does not need medical attention · Has been treated well by border patrol 9. Joanna · 14 years old · From Guatemala · 15 days to from Guatemala to United States · Came looking for her parents, parents immigrated 3 years ago, she say they live in Virginia · Was accompanied by her cousin Mari, who was her care taker and her cousin’s baby Her cousin was released, She is now alone · She came because she wanted to be reunited with her family · Her cousin paid 3,500 dollars for her passage Adults 1. Adriana · From El Salvador · Here with son (13 months old) · She didn’t want to cross o She was threatened by a Coyote o Had to give them all her money o They threatened to take away her son o She didn’t reach out to the Coyotes, they reached out to her · Only has a friend in Los Angeles 2. Maria · 22 years old · Here with two sisters (24 years old) and a niece (7 years old) · From Honduras · Escaping from the violence and abuse · Has a mother in law in Connecticut 3. Esperanza · From Ecuador · Came here with no one else · Did not hire a Coyote i. Got here by asking people · She is leaving her abusive family · Doesn’t know where she is going, she just wanted to leave
06.16.2014	On Monday, June 16th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) presented more than 16 medals and awards to Adkins veteran, Arthur Wildberger. Mr. Wildberger served more than 23 years in the United States Navy during the Vietnam era and was attached to the 3rd Marine Division during the Desert Storm Operation. “Mr. Art Wildberger is a true example of American patriotism,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Mr. Wildberger contacted my office to inquire about medals and ribbons he did not receive when he retired. After following up with the Department of the Navy, the staff in my San Antonio district office were able to procure the awards Mr. Wildberger deserves. It gives me great honor to present these medals, ribbons, stars, and pin to Mr. Wildberger. His valiant service to our country has not gone unnoticed and his bravery while fighting for our freedom is being recognized today.” Rep. Cuellar presented 16 medals and awards to Adkins veteran, Arthur Wildberger, who served during the Vietnam era and during the Desert Storm Operation. Mr. Wildberger received 16 awards in total. They include: · Navy and Marine Corps Medal · Navy Commendation Medal with four gold star appurtenances · Navy Achievement Medal · Navy Good Conduct Medal with two bronze star appurtenances · National Defense Service Medal with bronze star appurtenance · Southwest Asia Service · Medal with three bronze star appurtenances · Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal · Navy Expeditionary Medal · Navy Unit Commendation Ribbon with bronze star appurtenance · Meritorious Unit Commendation Ribbon · Navy “E” Ribbon with wreathed “E” · Humanitarian Service Medal with bronze star appurtenance · Kuwait Liberation Medal (from Kuwait) · Kuwait Liberation Medal (from Saudi Arabia) · Sea Service Deployment Ribbon with one silver and four bronze star appurtenances · Retirement Lapel Pin
06.11.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Appropriations Committee has approved almost $78 million in additional funds for Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to address the issue of border overcrowding and the influx children migrants crossing the southern border. Rep. Cuellar brought his concerns regarding the ongoing situation at the Texas-Mexico border to the Committee during the Department of Homeland Security Subcommittee markup. He then worked with Chairman John Carter (R-TX) and Ranking Member David Price (D-NC) to ensure the increased funding for CBP and ICE. To view Rep. Cuellar’s full remarks to the Committee, click HERE: The Committee adopted a manager’s amendment by voice vote that would add $68 million to its previous funding level for CBP salaries and expenses, $3.6 million for CBP construction and facilities management, and $5.7 million for ICE salaries and expenses. “In recent weeks there has been a surge of undocumented immigrants from Central America attempting to cross the border into the United States,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is especially true in the district which I represent in South Texas. Many of these individuals are unaccompanied immigrant children who are being smuggled into the United States by criminal organizations. Over 70% of these apprehensions are of individuals from countries other than Mexico, and approximately one-third of those are unaccompanied alien children. Over 140,000 undocumented immigrants have been apprehended since the beginning of the fiscal year in the Rio Grande Valley alone. Approximately 300 unaccompanied alien children are apprehended every day at the border. As of late last week, CBP had over 2,000 unaccompanied alien children in their custody. The men and women in green who guard the border, along with the men and women of ICE are doing an outstanding job given the circumstances. However, this recent influx of migrants is threatening to overwhelm these agencies, creating a resource and humanitarian crisis. But providing additional funds to DHS is only one part of the two pronged approach to solve this problem. Because the undocumented immigrants apprehended are Central American, the problem is bigger and more systemic than what our Border Patrol can control. We must also work with our partners in Mexico to secure their southern border to prevent individuals from crossing through their country to get to the United States. I am committed to also working with Chairwoman Granger and Ranking Member Lowey on the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee to find ways to provide assistance to Mexico. We need to provide these agencies with the resources they need not only to secure our borders and keep our communities safe, but to provide for the safety and proper care of these undocumented immigrants, especially the children. Again I thank Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Price for the additional funding included in the manager’s amendment.”
06.10.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) voted in favor of the Veterans Access to Care Act of 2014, a bill that gives veterans the options to seek care at non-VA facilities. His vote comes as the Department of Veterans Affairs released results from an internal audit that flagged eight facilities in Texas and two in South Texas for further review. “I have been concerned for some time about the allegations surrounding care at the VA and this report makes it even more apparent that reforms at the Department are necessary,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I previously supported a bill make it easier for the VA to hold the appropriate employees responsible for delays in treatment affecting veterans. Today’s legislation will allow veterans living more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility to seek care at a non-VA facility. It will also give local providers three options for reimbursement from the VA: 1) the rate of reimbursement under VA, the rate of reimbursement under Medicare, or the rate of reimbursement under TRICARE. Veterans deserve a healthcare system they can trust – not a bureaucracy that prevents them from getting the care they need.” Rep. Cuellar spoke today on the Floor of the House of Representatives in support of this bill. To watch his statement, click here: On Monday, the VA released a two part internal survey conducted of VA employees. Overall, 81 (37%) of the sites from the 216 sites visited in the Phase One Access Audit require further review. Of the 216 sites reviewed, 81 locations were flagged for additional review and of those these in Texas were included: · South Texas Veterans HCS (San Antonio), TX · Central Texas HCS (Temple), TX · Dallas, TX · Fort Worth, TX · Corpus Christi Outpatient Clinic and PACT Annex, TX · Harlingen (Texas Coastal Bend HCS), TX · McAllen (Texas Coastal Bend HCS), TX · Central Texas Health Care System – Austin, TX · Big Springs (West TX VA Medical Center), TX No facilities in Texas were flagged for further review in Phase Two. To access the full VA report, click HERE and to access the Texas specific information, click HERE. Rep. Cuellar was an original co-sponsor of the Veterans Access to Care Act. It passed the House of Representatives today 426-0 and now heads to the Senate for further consideration.
06.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that the Laredo International Airport has received a $3 million investment from the Federal Aviation Administration for security upgrades at the airport. The airport received the funds through a competitive application process. This security project is coordinated with the efforts of the Transportation Security Administration. “I am very pleased to announce these vital funds to upgrade the security infrastructure at the Laredo International Airport,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will enable the City to initiate more security related projects that will ensure the Airport remains a top notch facility. I want to recognize the Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, City Manager Carlos Villarreal, and Laredo International Airport Manager Jose Flores for their commitment to securing this grant and thank the Federal Aviation Administration for its decision to invest in Laredo.” “This grant is going to allow the Laredo International Airport to enhance its security capacities to better serve our growing number of passengers and air cargo service,” said City of Laredo City Manager Carlos Villarreal. “While we already meet all FAA standards of security, the grant will only augment our position as a leading airport for travel and trade in lower South Texas.” The grant funds will allow the Laredo International Airport to: · Replace 8,600 feet of fence with 8’ and 10’ chain link fence with 3 strands of barbed wire and with concrete footer; · Replace ten (10) vehicular gates with sliding cantilever gates and access controls; · Install access controls on two (3) pedestrian gates; · Upgrade badging system; · Install new dispatch monitory station; and, · Acquire Sweeper. Rep. Cuellar the City of Laredo will hold a press event at a future date to announce the funds.
06.02.2014	Today, US Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) sent a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Jeh Johnson, the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Homeland Security, Commerce-Justice-Science, and Labor-Health and Human Services Appropriation Subcommittees calling for the establishment of a multi-agency processing center on the border to deal with the recent influx of apprehensions. Since the beginning of the year, over 140,000 undocumented immigrants have been apprehended at the border, causing a severe strain on the resources of Border Patrol. The full text of Rep. Cuellar’s letter is below and attached to this email: June 2, 2014 The Honorable Harold Rogers The Honorable Nita Lowey Chairman Ranking Member House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee H-305, The Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable John Carter The Honorable David Price Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Homeland Security Subcommittee on Homeland Security H-310, The Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Frank Wolf The Honorable Chaka Fattah Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee on Commerce-Justice-Science H-307, U.S. Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Washington, D.C. 20515 Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Jack Kingston The Honorable Rosa DeLauro Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services 2448 Rayburn HOB 1016 Longworth HOB House Appropriations Committee House Appropriations Committee Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Ladies and Gentlemen: In recent weeks, the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas has experienced an unprecedented influx of undocumented immigrant apprehensions and detentions, many of which are unaccompanied minors from countries other than Mexico. These crossings have created a resource crisis in the Rio Grande Valley that demands immediate attention from the federal government and the Appropriations Committee. Since the beginning of this year, over 145,000 undocumented immigrants have been apprehended in the Rio Grande Valley sector, a more than 65% increase over the same period of Fiscal Year 2013. If current rates continue, the Rio Grande Valley is expected to have over 240,000 apprehensions for Fiscal Year 2014. On average, over 70% of apprehensions are Other Than Mexicans (OTM) and a large percentage of them are Unaccompanied Children (UAC). Currently, the Rio Grande Valley is apprehending approximately 300 UACs on a daily basis. I represent much of this area in the 28th District of Texas, which stretches from San Antonio in the north to Laredo and the much of the upper Rio Grande Valley. I have had extensive personal conversations with the men and women of Border Patrol in the past few weeks about this ongoing issue and they have laid out the issues straining the resources and personnel of Border Patrol. Every undocumented immigrant that is apprehended while attempting to cross the border must be processed by Border Patrol. With this unprecedented surge in crossings, the Rio Grande Valley is currently at more than 190% of its temporary detention capacity. Those that are detained are then transferred to the custody of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Many others are released with a notice to appear before an immigration judge at a future date. This resource crisis requires a multi-agency response involving the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Justice. Because of the massive influx of immigrants being apprehended at the border, it is necessary to create a central location in which all elements of the adjudication process can be completed. We need to do a better job taking care of the children who are crossing the southern border unaccompanied and we must act immediately to avert a potential humanitarian crisis along the border. I am committed to working with Chairwoman Kay Granger, Ranking Member David Price, and the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee to work with our partners in Mexico and other Central American countries. Thank you for your consideration. If you require further information, do not hesitate to contact me, my legislative director Megan Swearingen, or my legislative assistant Wendell White at 225-1640. Sincerely, Henry Cuellar, PhD U.S. Congressman Texas District 28 CC: The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary United States Department of Homeland Security 301 7th Street SW Washington, D.C. 20528
05.30.2014	U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the resignation of General Eric Shinseki as Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs: “Secretary Eric Shinseki should be commended for his years of service to our country, both in the armed forces and the Administration, but this is a needed change. It is clear that a change in the culture at the VA is overdue. Congress needs to work across the aisle to reform the VA in a way that will address deficiencies and provide better delivery of services to our veterans. It is vital that we get to the bottom of the ongoing issues that have interfered with the VA’s mission of providing top level healthcare services. At the end of the day, every veteran deserves the highest quality of care and I will work with colleagues to ensure that these problems are resolved.”
05.22.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the annual budget for the Department of Defense, which passed the House and now heads to the Senate for consideration. Rep. Cuellar successfully included language in the NDAA that reiterates and enhances support for United States-Mexico cooperation in the ongoing fight to combat the illegal drug trade. “The safety and security of the United States cannot be viewed in a vacuum,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Cooperation between the United States and Mexico can lead to a reduction in the flow of drugs to the United States, which threatens children and families, taxes our criminal justice system, and costs billions in law enforcement resources. That is why I fought to include this language which boosts cooperation between our two nations in this vital effort. More can be done and more must be done to work with our southern neighbor and secure our border.” Over the past decade, a `balloon effect' has pushed increased violence and instability into Central America and Mexico from South America. Currently, Mexico is working to reduce violence created by transnational criminal organizations and address issues spurred by the emergence of internal self defense groups. To combat these destabilizing threats, through a variety of authorities, the U.S. Department of Defense advises, trains, educates, and equips vetted troops in Mexico and many of the nations of Central America to build their militaries and police forces, with an emphasis on human rights and building partnership capacity. Rep. Cuellar’s language directs the Department of Defense to focus on combating illicit networking routes in Mexico and Central America. According to Rep. Cuellar’s language, the United States Northern Command and United States Southern Command should continue to work together to combat the transnational nature of these threats and the U.S. Department of Defense should increase its maritime, aerial and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets in the region in order to reduce the amount of illicit networking flowing into the United States. Rep. Cuellar is also continuing to monitor the progress of language he included in last year’s NDAA, which directed the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Federal Aviation Administration to develop joint testing and training of unmanned aircraft and systems for use in border security operations. This provision will better train and equip pilots to operate unmanned aircraft for the purposes of border security. It will more effectively utilize taxpayer dollars to support the activities of Customs and Border Protection so that agents are better trained and equipped. The ability of these three agencies – DoD, DHS, and FAA – to work jointly will allow for better sharing of knowledge and expertise which will ultimately benefit the residents of the border regions and citizens throughout the country.
05.21.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that per his request, the House Appropriations Committee will instruct the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an assessment on border rail crossing wait times. Rep. Cuellar included the language for this request that was passed out of Committee in the Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development bill and that now heads to the House Floor for full consideration. “Delays at Laredo’s international bridge crossings cause delays on the streets of Laredo for business owners, families, and commuters,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have been working with the City of Laredo, including Mayor Raul Salinas and City Manager Carlos Villarreal, to resolve this issue for some time and am pleased to see that my request for GAO to investigate this issue has passed out of Committee. We need to resolve this issue of congestion and I look forward to seeing what solutions are proposed in this study and will continue to advocate for traffic and commerce to move freely throughout Laredo’s streets.” “We welcome this development spearheaded by Congressman Cuellar and we feel that this is the beginning of the end of our rail congestion problem,” said City of Laredo City Manager Carlos Villarreal. “The City of Laredo is grateful for this effort.” GAO will conduct an assessment of best practices that can be used to reduce rail border crossing times and especially the blockage of street crossings on the U.S. side. This review will examine the impact of reduced staff changing times, pre-clearance for train operators, and possible changing in train operator location. GAO must report back to Congress within 180 days of passage of the bill.
05.21.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar today voted in support of HR 4031, a bill that will allow the Veterans Affairs Secretary to remove any career employee tied to the ongoing issues regarding wait times and quality of care at the VA. Under the measure, the VA secretary could remove any such individual from federal service or transfer the individual to another position that the secretary determines is appropriate. “Our veterans deserve the highest level of care and customer service and we must ensure that the Veterans Administration remains accountable,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The recent allegations of delayed care and wait lists at Veterans Affairs facilities across the country are unacceptable and a disservice to the men and women who have fought for our freedom. That is why I am supporting this legislation that will make it easier for the Secretary of the VA to fix the problems that are plaguing the system. We owe the more than 21.1 million veterans in the United States and more than 1.6 million veterans in the State of Texas a higher standard of care and a higher level of commitment.” Rep. Cuellar spoke on the House Floor in May 2014 in support in of increased funds to reduce the benefits claims backlog that affects many Texas veterans. As of the week of May 10th, the VA needs to reduce the backlog by an average of 3,492 claims a week to eliminate the backlog by the end of 2015. For a video clipping of Rep. Cuellar’s statement, please click HERE. For residents of the 28th District of Texas experiencing issues or requiring assistance with a benefits claims or quality of care at a VA facility, please contact any of Rep. Cuellar’s caseworkers: Laredo District Office – 956-725-0639 Mission District Office – 956-424-3942 San Antonio District Office – 210-271-2851
05.20.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) to announce that the U.S. House of Representatives has overwhelmingly approved bipartisan legislation to award the Congressional Gold Medal to members of the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) who provided extraordinary public and combat emergency services during World War II. Harkin and Cochran are the lead Senate sponsors of the measure while McCaul and Cuellar have led the effort in the House. The legislation passed the U.S. Senate in 2013 now goes to President Obama’s desk for signature. “The Civil Air Patrol was comprised of volunteers who banded together on December 1, 1941 to create a volunteer air patrol to defend their country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am honored to recognize the Civil Air Patrol for their contributions and service to our country during World War II. This Congressional Gold Medal recognition is long overdue and well deserved.” Click HERE to view Rep. Cuellar’s full statement on the bill: In March of 1942, members of the Civil Air Patrol started an anti-submarine coastal patrol off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. CAP operations reported 173 submarines and found 325 survivors of attacks. There were more than 60,000 adult civilian members of the CAP in a wide range of positions, and CAP aircrews flew a total of approximately 750,000 hours during the war, most of which were in their personal aircraft and often at real risk to their lives. CAP operations were characterized by an exceptional emphasis on safety, discipline and organization. However, by the end of the war, 64 members of the CAP had died in service. For more information about the Civil Air Patrol, visit: http://www.gocivilairpatrol.com/about/history_of_civil_air_patrol/
05.09.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Agua Special Utility District (Agua SUD) has received $8 million in federal investment dollars that will fund the construction of a wastewater collection system in the City of Palmview. In 2013, Agua SUD estimated that 99% of its service area had drinking water service, but only 9% had wastewater service. This project will provide first-time wastewater collection and treatment services to community of Palmview and the surrounding area, reducing environmental and health hazards associated with the inadequate treatment and disposal of wastewater, thus providing a cleaner healthier environment for local residents. “I am very pleased to announce this federal investment in the City of Palmview,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Residents of Palmview will benefit from a vital infrastructure update with the construction of a wastewater collection system, which will improve quality of life and environmental standards. I thank our partners at the North American Development Bank as well as the Mayor of Palmview and the City Council for their excellent work on this grant and look forward to our continued partnership.” “The North American Development Bank is pleased to collaborate with AGUA SUD and US EPA to make this project a reality. There are important environmental benefits that will come from this project, as well as improved services for the residents of Palmview,” Geronimo Gutierrez, NADB Managing Director. “We are very that we are finally going to get a sewer system in Palmview,” said Palmview Mayor Jorge Garcia. “We know that the local businesses will really appreciate this investment and we thank NAD Bank for their investment in our community.” Of the $44.3 million project, $36 million comes via the Texas Water Development Board in 2013. The remaining $8 million was announced from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF), which is administered by the North American Development Bank.
05.08.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released an informational video for residents of the 28th District of Texas highlighting the importance of investment in science research and technology and outlining resources for students and families interested in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields. He was joined by Dr. Joan Ferrini-Mundy, Assistant Director of the National Science Foundation and Jennifer Bernal, Public Policy Analyst at Google. “The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) field is one of the fastest growing sectors in our economy and the impact of technology is increasingly visible in our everyday lives. It is vital that young people learn about the opportunities available in STEM fields and become familiar with technology from an early age,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why I invited Google and the National Science Foundation, both leaders in the field of research and investment in science and technology, to join me for an informational discussion. I encourage viewers in the 28th District to explore the resources available to them from both organizations and use this opportunity to learn more about this important field.” To watch the full video, click HERE: For more information on the National Science Foundation, visit their website HERE. For more information on Google Education, visit their website HERE.
05.02.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) spoke on the House Floor in support of increased funds to reduce the benefits claims backlog that affects many Texans veterans. Rep. Cuellar voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which passed the House on Wednesday evening. The bill now head to the Senate for consideration where it is expected to be approved. Click HERE to view Rep. Cuellar’s full remarks: “Veterans of all generations deserve a benefits system that is easy to navigate and responsive to their needs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “While progress has been made, more work needs to be done so that no veteran has to wait to receive earned benefits. I am pleased to see that the FY2015 Military Construction Appropriations bill continues to support funding to eliminate the claims backlog. I thank Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Bishop for crafting this legislation and greatly appreciate their efforts to ensure Veterans receive the benefits they have earned.” This bill takes several steps to reduce the disgraceful veterans’ claims backlog: · Provide $173.3 million for the Veterans Benefit Management System and an additional $20 million to the Veterans Benefit Administration for digital scanning of old paper files, the centralized mail initiative, and staff overtime; · Withhold 75% of the VistA Evolution funds until VA provides information on the system, particularly regarding planned interoperability with DoD; and · Continue to require the VA to provide monthly reports on claims processing and remediation efforts for underperforming regional offices.
04.28.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement in support of ongoing trade discussions towards completing a Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement: “I am pleased to see the progress that has been made towards completing a Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement during the recent high level meeting between the United States and Japan,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a representative of the largest inland port in the country in Laredo, Texas, I am a strong supporter of increased trade with the United States and the rest of the world that will lead to further growth, investment, and innovation. The bottom line is that trade creates jobs and prosperity – in today’s economic environment, we must pursue an agreement that keeps markets accessible to the United States.” The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) is a proposed regional free trade agreement (FTA) being negotiated among the United States, Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam. The economy of the State of Texas relies heavily on international trade, exporting $279.7 billion in goods in 2013, with 36.1% or $101.0 billion, sent to Mexico. Texas exports support thousands of jobs for Texas workers and sustain thousands of small and medium sized businesses based in Texas.
04.28.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today announced that his official website was recognized by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) as one of the best congressional websites on Capitol Hill. Rep. Cuellar’s website ranked in the top 10 percent, as he was one of only 44 Representatives to receive the award out of 435 Members in total. “I am very honored to have received this recognition for my official website,” said Congressman Cuellar. "My staff and I strive to deliver the best level of service to the residents of the 28th District of Texas and we will continue working to ensure that our online communications reflect that mission. I encourage residents of my district to visit my website for more information about the services my office provides, including tours of the Capitol, help with a federal agency, nominations to the United States Service Academies, neighborhood office hours, and much more. I thank the Congressional Management Foundation for this award and will continue to focus on providing top quality service to my constituents.” “By demonstrating exceptional accountability and transparency in online communications Congressman Cuellar not only provides benefits to his constituents but the entire Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, CMF President and CEO. “Congressman Cuellar should be congratulated by his constituents, applauded by advocates of good government, and emulated by congressional colleagues.” Download a list of winners and copy of the report here. Visit Rep. Cuellar’s congressional website here. A total of 70 personal office and committee websites received a Gold, Silver, or Bronze Mouse Award. The criteria for website assessments have been developed and refined by CMF over the past decade based on survey research, focus groups with constituents, and interviews with key stakeholders to congressional offices. Reviewers assessed 10 categories of criteria: usability of website; timeliness of content; breadth and depth of information on issues; constituent services and casework information; promoting accountability to constituents; legislative process information; district/state information; floor proceedings information; availability of diverse forms of content; and availability of diverse forms of content channels.
04.24.2014	On Thursday, April 24th, Congressman Henry Cuellar joined IDEA Preparatory School Donna to announce that Brandon Lau, a high school senior that he nominated has been accepted to the United State Air Force Academy. “I would like to congratulate Brandon for his acceptance into the prestigious United States Air Force Academy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “His leadership skills, excellent grades and test scores, and extensive volunteer service made him stand out among a group of competitive candidates for the Academy. I am certain he will serve his country and District 28 as a role model and a leader in the Air Force. I wish Brandon the best of luck.” Rep. Cuellar congratulates IDEA Preparatory Donna student, Brandon Lau, on his acceptance to the United States Air Force Academy. Rep. Cuellar nominated Brandon to the service academy in 2013. Brandon Lau, a senior at IDEA Preparatory School Donna, was recently accepted into the United States Air Force Academy for the fall semester of 2014. Brandon spent a large portion of his high school career developing intellectually, physically, and philanthropically. He maintained a 3.96 GPA, is a member of the National Honor Society and will graduate with an International Baccalaureate Diploma. Brandon is also captain of the Varsity Cross Country team and the Academic Decathlon team. Furthermore, he has volunteered a number of hours at the McAllen Medical Center, Mission Veterinarian Hospital and at St. John of the Fields Catholic Church. For more information on the nomination process and U.S. Service Academies, visit /students/serviceacademynominations.htm.
04.24.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined the Edinburg Chamber of Commerce for the opening of the new Taco Palenque in Edinburg. This is the first Taco Palenque in Edinburg and the 15th Taco Palenque location in South Texas. “We are here today to mark a new chapter in one of South Texas’s most successful local businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The owners of Taco Palenque serve as excellent role models because of their hard-earned success and the honest manner in which they conduct business. The positive impact of local businesses and the support of the Chamber of Commerce are vital to the community’s economy and the financial wellbeing of its residents. I congratulate Taco Palenque for this next step and wish them the best of luck.” Rep. Cuellar joins the Edinburg Chamber of Commerce of the opening of the first Taco Palenque in Edinburg. The Ochoa family established the first Taco Palenque in 1987. This new location will add 47 new employees and 6 new managers, a total of 53 new jobs.
04.23.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) provided a detailed response to his request in the Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations Bill for more information on how veterans are assigned to a health care center. As part of the Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations Bill, Rep. Cuellar requested that the VA report back to Congress on what methods they used to assign veterans to VA health care centers. “I have long been concerned about veterans having to travel long distances to receive care even though there are closer, more easily accessible health center locations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We know have new and better information that will help veterans get health care closer to home. This report from the VA shows veterans that they have recourse to appeal to the Agency should they have an issue accessing the quality of care they deserve.” The full response from the VA is below and may also be found on Rep. Cuellar’s website: “When applying for enrollment in VA health care, Veterans select their preferred location of care from over 1,700 hospitals, outpatient clinics, and other care locations. Once enrolled, Veterans’ coverage accompanies them when they travel or move. VA continues to reassess the need for new care locations to make health care more accessible to Veterans. As new locations are deployed, VA reviews its patients’ care needs and offers care to those who live closer to the new facilities. If a new facility is able to provide the needed care and the patient is interested, VA transfers his or her care to the new location. Additionally, at any time, Veterans may opt to receive all or some of their care at a different facility. When a Veteran expresses a desire to receive care a different facility or site, VA reviews the patient’s needs and schedules an appointment at that alternate location, as long as it has the capacity and available resources to provide the necessary care. In the event the facility lacks the capacity at that time, VA will place the patient on a “Transfer List” and schedule future appointments at the desired location when capacity becomes available.” Click HERE to access this report on Rep. Cuellar’s website.
04.23.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) met with Colombian and Mexican officials last week to discuss joint efforts to combat the spread of illegal narcotics. Congressman Cuellar traveled with Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY05) and other Members of the Appropriations Committee. The United States, Mexico, and Colombia have a partnership to assist in training security forces to eradicate drug crops, disrupt supply chains, and seize shipments. As part of this partnership, the U.S. assists in training and equipping Mexican and Colombian security forces. Congressman Cuellar directs funds for these critical activities in the annual budget process. Rep. Cuellar meets with the President of Mexico, Enrique Peña Nieto, to discuss joint counter-narcotics efforts and energy reform. Rep. Cuellar meets with the President of Colombia, Juan Manuel Santos, to discuss joint counter-narcotics efforts. “Working with our partners in Mexico and Colombia, we can stop the flow of illegal drugs at their source, resulting in huge savings in dollars and human life,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a Member of the Appropriations Committee, I will continue to advocate for smart spending to stem the flow of illegal drugs and keep our communities in South Texas safe. We have great partners in the Administrations of Mexico and Colombia and I look forward to continue our important work together.” For a full photo album of Rep. Cuellar’s meetings in Mexico and Colombia, please click HERE.
04.22.2014	On Monday, April 22nd, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined the City of Pleasanton to honor the service of two Pleasanton City Councilmen who have served a combined 48 years in their posts. “These men serve as outstanding models of civic service,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today, we congratulate them both on a hard-earned and well deserved record of service to the community. On behalf of the U.S. Congress, I thank you both for your service and present you with a copy of the congressional speech honoring your career that was submitted to the House on April 8th, 2014.” Rep. Cuellar presented copies of the Congressional Record to Mr. Abraham Saenz (left) and Mr. James Magel (right) recognizing their combined 48 years of service in the Pleasanton City Council. Mr. James Magel served the city of Pleasanton for 18 years. Throughout this time, Mr. Magel led the charge on numerous construction projects for the community. These projects include the construction of a public works facility, the new police department, the expansion of Pleasanton City Hall, a new civic center and library. He was also instrumental in the assembly of the Regional Water Waste Collection line. Mr. Abraham Saenz served on the Pleasanton City Council for 30 years. During this long tenure, Mr. Saenz has been instrumental in implementing many key city projects. These projects include paving roads, preparing the city’s water supply for the next 50 years, and improving drainage and wastewater collection infrastructure. He also facilitated the construction of a new City Hall, Police Headquarters, Public Works Facility, Library, and Civic Center. Mr. Saenz has truly been at the forefront of planning initiatives to accommodate for the growth of Pleasanton. Click HERE for a full photo album from the event.
04.22.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that the Smithsonian will be hosting "Night at the Museum" events at the National Museum of American History and the National Museum of Natural History. These overnight events are a great opportunity for families visiting Washington to provide an eye-opening experience for young children. “I am happy to announce that the Smithsonian will be having ‘Smithsonian Sleepovers’ at the National Museum of American History. This is a great opportunity for young children to learn about the museum while exploring an important piece of the history and culture of our nation’s Capital,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The night promises to be filled with interactive and educational activities. If you ever wondered what a ‘Night at the Museum’ felt like, now you have a chance to experience it firsthand.” Children between the ages of 8-12 have the option of choosing a night of fun that features tours, games, crafts, a film, and more at either museum. There must be at least one adult (21 and over) for every three children in any registered group. 2014 Sleepover dates for the Museum of American History are May 9, June 20, July 18, August 1, and August 15 and the dates for the Museum of Natural History are June 28, July 12, July 26, August 8, and August 22. For more information about the Night at the Museum events, visit the Smithsonian's website HERE​ or call (202) 633-3030 Monday through Friday between 9am-5pm EST. Read more about the Museum of American History or the Museum of Natural History on their official websites. Residents of the 28th District of Texas can also visit Congressman Cuellar’s website HERE to request a tour of the United States Capitol, the White House, the Supreme Court, and more, at least three weeks in advance of any travel. Rep. Cuellar anuncia el evento “Una Noche En El Museo” En los museos Smithsonian en Washington. Washington, D.C. – El Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) ha anunciado el día de hoy que el Museo Nacional de Historia Americana (“National Museum of American History”) y el Museo Nacional de Historia Natural (“National Museum of Natural History”) serán los anfitriones del evento “Una Noche En El Museo”. Dicho evento brinda una gran oportunidad para visitar Washington en familia y disfrutar una experiencia innovadora y educativa para los más jóvenes de la casa. Al respecto, el Congresista Cuellar expresó: “Me siento feliz de anunciar que el Smithsonian tendrá “Trasnochadores Smithsonianos” en el Museo Nacional de Historia Americana. Siendo esta una gran oportunidad para que los más pequeños aprendan acerca del museo mientras exploran piezas importantes de la historia y la cultura de la Capital de nuestra nación. La noche promete estar llena de actividades interactivas y educacionales. Si alguna vez has imaginado cómo sería pasar “Una Noche En El Museo”, ahora es tu oportunidad para vivirla de primera mano.” Los niños entre los 8 y los 12 años de edad, tienen la opción de escoger asistir a una noche de diversión, tours, juegos, manualidades, cine y mucho más en los museos. Para hacerlo, deben ir acompañados de al menos un adulto (Mayor de 21 años) por cada 3 niños que se registren. Las fechas en las que se realizará el evento en 2014 son: Museo de Historia Americana, Mayo 9, Junio 20, Julio 18 y Agosto 1° y 15. Museo de Historia Natural, Junio 28, Julio 12, Julio 26, Agosto 8 y 22. Para más información acerca del evento Una Noche En El Museo, visita la página web de los Smithsonian Aquí o llama al (202) 633-3030 de Lunes a Viernes entre las 9am y 5pm EST. Para más información acerca del Museo de Historia Americana (“Museum of American History”) o del Museo de Historia Natural (“Museum of Natural History”) visita sus sitios web oficiales. Los residentes del Distrito 28 de Texas también pueden visitar la página web del Congresista Cuellar Aquí para pedir un tour por el Capitolio de los Estados Unidos, la Casa Blanca, la Corte Suprema de Justicia y más. La solicitud debe hacerse con mínimo 3 semanas de anticipación.
04.21.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Appropriations Committee had successfully passed two of 12 funding bills out of committee that require strong steps to address the Veterans Affairs claims backlog. “The backlog for veterans’ disability and medical claims has gone on for too long,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill takes several steps to reduce the claims backlog but providing additional resources to the Agency to address the issues. The men and women who serve our country in the military deserve the highest level of care and support when they return home. I will continue working to ensure this bill passes the House of Representatives with funding intact to address the claims backlog.” The FY15 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill would: · Provide $173.3 million for the Veterans Benefit Management System and an additional $20 million to the Veterans Benefit Administration for digital scanning of old paper files, the centralized mail initiative, and staff overtime; · Withhold 75% of the VistA Evolution funds until VA provides information on the system, particularly regarding planned interoperability with DoD; and · Continue to require the VA to provide monthly reports on claims processing and remediation efforts for underperforming regional offices. Rep. Cuellar was also successful in including the following language in the FY15 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and will work to ensure it remains in the bill as it continues to be considered: · Urging the Department of Defense to develop a prioritized plan to update infrastructure in and around military bases, specifically for communities that have invested in transportation infrastructure. · Encouraging the Army National Guard and Air National Guard to establish test sites in conjunction with Customs and Border Protection for unmanned systems on the southern border in order to further bolster enforcement resources on the border · Requiring the Veterans Administration to develop results oriented performance measures on accuracy and reduction of the time it takes to process veterans disability benefits claims, improvement of quality and accessibility of healthcare, veterans education, and vocational rehabilitation and employment, among others For more information on the Appropriations bill visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=376068
04.21.2014	On Monday, April 21st, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined the City of Poteet and the Poteet Memorial Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 6970 to honor Poteet veteran Ruben Leal, who was awarded two medals for his service in the Korean War. “Mr. Rubin Leal is an example of true American patriotism,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It gives me great honor to present two medals to Mr. Leal which signify his heroic service in the Korean conflict. These medals and stars he is receiving today are an indication that his valiant service to our country has not gone unnoticed. I also thank Mr. Leal for his patience throughout the years to receive the recognition he so rightfully deserves.” Rep. Cuellar presents two Korean War medals to Poteet veteran Rubin Leal in a ceremony on Monday, April 21st Mr. Leal’s Korean Service Medal with Bronze Star attachment is accompabied by the Korean War Service Medal. This particular service medal was issued on the 50th anniversary of the Korean War According to the Department of Defense, when the Korean War Service Medal was originally made available from the Republic of Korea to members of the United Nations Forces in 1954, most of the eligible service members had returned home from the war. This 50th anniversary Korean War Service Medal was made available to the eligible members who were offered this medal, but never issued. Click HERE for a full photo album from the event.
04.21.2014	On Monday, April 22nd, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined the City of Pleasanton to announce the opening of the Pleasanton Civic Center, a project that is 17 years in the making and will provide the city with a remodeled civic center and library. “We are here today to celebrate the grand opening of the Pleasanton Civic Center and library and congratulate the community for this milestone in civic life,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Civic center and library represent the uniqueness of the Pleasanton community and amazing growth that the community has undergone. I wish the Pleasanton community many years of happy gatherings and successful events here.” Rep. Cuellar presented a flag flown over the United States Capitol to the City of Pleasanton at the opening of the new Civic Center. “I appreciate the opportunity provide a quote/thought on our Civic Center and Library,” said Clinton J. Powell, Mayor of the City of Pleasanton. “The completion of our Civic Center and Library is a testament to the determination of the City of Pleasanton’s citizens, city employees, and city council. In the beginning the project had the council and citizens split. In the end, we all came together and the result is a beautified downtown with a functional facility. For years to come we look forward to enjoying the Civic Center/Library complex.” This Civic Center and library includes 12,000 square feet of space and designed to host seminars, conventions, and educational programs. The Civic Center already has 24 events booked so far for the first month. On the east side of the library is an outdoor Freedom Center, which contains a memorial honoring those who have paid the ultimate price serving our country. The 5 red sandstone walls each have one of the 5 military emblems from branches of service. Click HERE for a full photo album from the event.
04.17.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that 8 million Americans had enrolled in a healthcare plan under the Affordable Care Act since the Marketplace opened in October 2013. The announcement comes at a time when healthcare costs nationally are growing at the slowest level on record, Medicare spending is down, and the deficit is projected to continue to shrink. “These enrollment numbers show that the Affordable Care Act is working and is giving millions of Americans the peace of mind they deserve,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a Congressman representing areas with some of the highest rates of uninsured Americans in the country – up to 35 percent in some places along the US-Mexico border – I know that these numbers are a sign of tangible progress and change for many people.” In addition to the 8 million Americans who have gained coverage: 3 million young adults gained coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act by being able to stay on their parents plan. 3 million more people were enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP as of February, compared to before the Marketplaces opened. Medicaid and CHIP enrollment continues year-round 5 million people are enrolled in plans that meet ACA standards outside the Marketplace, according to a Congressional Budget Office estimate.
04.15.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28)’s grants coordinator today completed a tour of Wilson, Atascosa and Bexar Counties that started on Monday, April 14th and lasted until Wednesday, April 16th. Rep. Cuellar’s grants coordinator met with city, county, and school district officials to discuss ways in which the Congressman’s office can help bring more federal resources home to local communities. The tour included 17 stops over the course of only three days. For more information on Rep. Cuellar’s grants resources, click HERE. For a full photo album of the grants tour, click HERE. The grants tour schedule is as follows: Monday, April 14th 10:00 am City of Floresville 11:00 am Floresville ISD 1:45 pm Floresville Economic Development 2:45 pm City of Poth 3:25 pm City of Jourdanton 4:45 pm City of Poteet Tuesday, April 15th 9:00 am City of Selma 10:00 am City of Live Oak 11:00 am University City 12:00 pm City of Converse 1:00 pm City of Windcrest 3:00 pm San Antonio Area Foundation and Non-Profits Wednesday, April 16th 9:30 am Judson ISD 11:00 am Randolph Field ISD 3:00 pm Northeast ISD 4:40 pm La Vernia Police Department
04.09.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today released an informational video for small business owners living in his district. He was joined by officials from the Small Business Administration and the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development who explained some of the federal resources available for small business owners, especially those in rural areas. To watch the video, click HERE. Any further questions regarding available resources for small business owners provided by the Small Business Administration or the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development may be found here: www.sba.gov http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/Home.html For more information on Rep. Cuellar's grants resources, click HERE.
04.09.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28)’s grants coordinator, Juan Sanchez, today concluded a three day Grants Tour in the Rio Grande Valley to get the word out about funding opportunities from the federal government. Rep. Cuellar’s grants coordinator met with city, county, and school district officials in Zapata, Starr, and Hidalgo Counties to discuss ways in which the Congressman’s office can help bring more resources to local communities. For more information on Rep. Cuellar’s grants resources, click HERE. For a full photo album, click HERE. The schedule was as follows: Monday April 7th 9:00am – City of Rio Bravo 12:00pm Zapata County Sheriff’s Office 1:15pm Zapata County Judge’s Office 2:00pm Zapata ISD 3:00 – City of Roma 4:00-4:30- Rio Grande City Tuesday April 8th 8:30-9:15- City of Mission 9:30-10:00- City of Palmhurst 10:15-10:45- City of Palmview 11:05-12:00- City of Penitas 1:45-2:15- City of La Joya 2:35-3:15- City of Sullivan 4:00-4:30- Starr County Judge’s Office Wednesday, April 9th 10:00 – 10:30 -Mission I.S.D. 10:40-11: 20 - Sharyland I.S.D. 11:35-12:05 - La Joya I.S.D. 2:00-2:30- Rio Grande City ISD 3:15-3:45- San Isidro I.S.D.
04.03.2014	On Saturday, April 5th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will participate in the Poteet Strawberry Festival Parade in Poteet, Texas. He will join the Poteet Strawberry Festival Association, the City of Poteet, Atascosa County officials, and other local officials in the parade. WHAT: Poteet Strawberry Parade WHEN: Saturday, April 5th Starting at 10amCT WHERE: Farm to Market 1470 & School Drive Poteet, Texas
04.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined U.S. Senators Tom Coburn (R-OK) and Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and U.S. Representatives Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) today introduced the Let Me Google That For You Act, a bill to eliminate an outdated agency that has lost more than $1 million trying to sell government reports that are available for free online. With a money-losing profit model only the government could design, the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) sells free government reports to other federal agencies and the public – at a loss. “Voters send us to Washington to write effective legislation and make sure the federal government is operating in a responsible manner,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That a government agency is selling free reports to another part of the government and the general public is a prime example of federal overreach and inefficiency. The Let Me Google That For You Act is an excellent step towards streamlining the way the government works and keeping Washington accountable to taxpayers.” Last year, the Government Accountability Office highlighted NTIS’ operations, in its annual duplication report, finding, “Of the reports added to NTIS’s repository during fiscal years 1990 through 2011 … approximately 74 percent were readily available from other public sources.” Meanwhile, from 1995 to 2000, the office sold only 8 percent of the 2.5 million reports in its repertoire. NTIS has lost on average at least $1.3 million over the last 11 year, running a deficit on its document production for nearly a decade. Eliminating the office should be a top priority for Congress as it looks for commonsense and bipartisan ways to reduce federal spending, increase government efficiency, and act upon one of the GAO’s recommendations to eliminate unnecessary duplication.
04.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that while the March 31st deadline for the healthcare open enrollment period has passed, it may not be too late to sign up. If you are uninsured, you may have a second chance at applying for subsidized health insurance. “The open enrollment deadline is now behind us, but there are still some people that were not able to enroll for health insurance. If you missed the deadline, there are a few ways for you to get covered,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage everyone that still has not received coverage to look at the options available and get health insurance.” Here are the five ways you can sign up and get insured: 1. If you started your application before the deadline, take advantage of the grace period. People that started applications on Healthcare.gov before the 3/31 deadline have until April 15th to complete the process. All paper applications will be accepted until April 7th. 2. Use a special enrollment period. If a natural disaster, domestic abuse, a serious illness, mistakes by application counselors, errors by insurance companies, or something of the like prevented you from enrolling for health insurance, you may be eligible for a special enrollment period. Contact the Federal Call Center, at 1-800-318-2596, or your state marketplace and explain what went wrong. If your extension is approved, you have 60 days to enroll. 3. Enroll in Medicaid. If you qualify for Medicaid, you can still enroll; there is no deadline. Eligibility for Medicaid varies from state to state and is based on income. To find out if you are eligible for Medicaid in Texas and would like more information, call: Medicaid Client Hotline: (800) 252-8263 CHIP/Children's Medicaid: (800) 647-6558 4. Enroll in a private insurance agency plan. ACA does not stop buyers from enrolling into private insurance company plans. However, it may be difficult to find one that offers full coverage and options may be limited. It is also important to note that private plans do not come with government subsidies that help make it affordable for low or mid-level income individuals and families. 5. Prepare for Open Enrollment 2015. The enrollment period for 2015 is scheduled to begin November 15th and run for three months. Improvements to the enrollment process have been suggested for the next time around. As always, Congressman Cuellar encourages Texans from District 28 to contact any of the district offices if they have any questions or for more information. Rep. Cuellar: “El plazo abierto para inscribirse para seguranza ya terminó, pero tal vez todavía puede recibir cobertura médica” Washington, D.C. – El Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) anunció hoy que aunque el plazo para inscribirse para seguranza por medio de la inscripción abierta terminó el 31 de marzo, tal vez no es muy tarde para recibir seguranza. Si usted no tiene seguranza, podrá tener una segunda oportunidad para aplicar para seguranza médica con subsidios. “El plazo para inscribirse ya paso, pero todavía hay gente que no pudieron inscribirse para recibir cobertura médica. Si no pudo inscribirse, hay algunas formas para inscribirse,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Si todavía no tiene cobertura, los animo a que chequen las opciones disponibles y que se inscriban.” Estas son las cinco maneras que puede usar para inscribirse y obtener seguranza: 1. Si empezó su aplicación antes del fin de plazo, aproveche el tiempo extra. Aplicaciones comenzadas en el sitio cuidadodesalud.gov/es/ antes del fin de plazo tienen hasta el 15 de abril para ser completadas. Todas las aplicaciones en papel serán aceptadas hasta el 7 de abril. 2. Use el plazo de inscripción especial. Si un desastre natural, abuso domestico, una enfermedad grave, errores por parte de consejeros o empresas de seguranza, o una situación así que le impedido inscribirse para seguranza, puede ser elegible para un plazo de inscripción especial. 3. Inscríbase en Medicaid. Si califica para Medicaid, todavía puede inscribirse. No hay fecha tope. Elegibilidad para Medicaid varía por estado y es basado en ingresos. Para averiguar si es elegible para Medicaid en Texas y gustaría más información, llame: · Linea directa para información sobre Medicaid : (800) 242-8263 · CHIP/Medicaid para niños: (800) 647-6558 4. Inscríbase en un plan de seguranza privada. ACA no le impide que compre seguranza privada. Pero, tal vez puede ser difícil para encontrar un plan que tenga cobertura total y las opciones pueden ser limitadas. También es importante saber que planes privadas no tienen subsidios gubernamentales que ayudan hacer el plan más económico para familias e individuos de bajo o medio niveles de ingreso. 5. Prepárese para el plazo de inscripción abierta del 2015. El plazo de inscripción abierta va empezar el 15 de noviembre y estará abierto por tres meses. Hay sugerencias para mejorar el proceso de inscripción para el próximo plazo. Como siempre, el Congresista Cuellar anima a los residentes del Distrito 28 a que llame cualquiera de sus oficinas si tiene preguntas o gusta más información.
04.01.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-TX31) to applaud Customs and Border Protection (CBP), for its significant allocation of additional customs officers to ports along the Texas-Mexico border. The Fiscal Year 2014 budget provided funds for an additional 2,000 men and women in blue who facilitate lawful trade and travel at our nation’s ports of entry. A significant portion of the additional officers will be allocated to the Laredo and Hidalgo/Pharr bridges. "Increasing the number of men and women in blue who man our border is a tremendous step towards fostering trade and commerce and supporting our border communities," said Congressman Cuellar. "These increases at ports of entry at Laredo and the Rio Grande Valley will allow more trade to cross the border every day, which brings in revenue for our local communities, creates economic growth, and provides good paying jobs for hardworking border residents. I thank Homeland Security Appropriations Committee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member David Price for their support of this increase and look forward to continuing to work together." “Facilitating trade and travel results in millions of American jobs and supports our economy, which is why I fought to budget for these additional officers," said Chairman Carter. "I will be monitoring CBP’s deployment plan to be sure the officers are well-trained and located in the places that need them most." Laredo is the largest land port of entry in the United States, accounting for 44.91 percent of all U.S. – Mexico trade. About 12,000 commercial trucks cross the World Trade Bridge and Columbia Bridge in Laredo each day. According to a Department of Commerce study, in 2008, border delays at the five busiest southern border POEs, which includes Laredo, cost the U.S. economy 26,000 jobs and $6 billion dollars in output. The increased CBP officers at ports of entry will speed up customs clearance, aiding in the flow of traffic and spurring economic development.
04.01.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-TX31) to applaud Customs and Border Protection (CBP), for its significant allocation of additional customs officers to ports along the Texas-Mexico border. The Fiscal Year 2014 budget provided funds for an additional 2,000 men and women in blue who facilitate lawful trade and travel at our nation’s ports of entry. A significant portion of the additional officers will be allocated to the Laredo and Hidalgo/Pharr bridges. "Increasing the number of men and women in blue who man our border is a tremendous step towards fostering trade and commerce and supporting our border communities," said Congressman Cuellar. "These increases at ports of entry at Laredo and the Rio Grande Valley will allow more trade to cross the border every day, which brings in revenue for our local communities, creates economic growth, and provides good paying jobs for hardworking border residents. I thank Homeland Security Appropriations Committee Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member David Price for their support of this increase and look forward to continuing to work together." “Facilitating trade and travel results in millions of American jobs and supports our economy, which is why I fought to budget for these additional officers," said Chairman Carter. "I will be monitoring CBP’s deployment plan to be sure the officers are well-trained and located in the places that need them most." Laredo is the largest land port of entry in the United States, accounting for 44.91 percent of all U.S. – Mexico trade. About 12,000 commercial trucks cross the World Trade Bridge and Columbia Bridge in Laredo each day. According to a Department of Commerce study, in 2008, border delays at the five busiest southern border POEs, which includes Laredo, cost the U.S. economy 26,000 jobs and $6 billion dollars in output. The increased CBP officers at ports of entry will speed up customs clearance, aiding in the flow of traffic and spurring economic development.
03.26.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the White House has extended the deadline to sign up for health insurance for consumers who are already in line on Healthcare.gov to enroll but have not been able to complete their application due to high volume or a technical issue. “The take home point is that people should not hesitate to start their health insurance application for fear of missing the deadline,” said Congressman Cuellar. “If you begin your application, whether online, by phone, by mail, or in person before March 31st, you will be able to receive health coverage. Don’t wait until the last minute if you do not have coverage and take advantage of this opportunity to get insurance, regardless of your previous health history. For the first time ever, no one can be turned away when they apply for health insurance. In our communities, where many people do not have insurance and getting sick can risk a family’s financial stability , this is truly important.” The deadline to receive coverage still remains March 31st. However, those consumers who are already in line in the system to receive coverage or who have complex casework needs will be accommodated. For more information, visit www.healthcare.gov or www.cuidadodesalud.gov.
03.26.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) signed on to a discharge petition in the U.S. House of Representatives to force a vote on HR 15, comprehensive immigration reform legislation that has over 200 cosponsors. “Americans overwhelmingly agree that we need immigration reform, for our economy and for our families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The argument by House Republican Leadership that we can’t pass immigration reform holds no water – if the bill were put on the Floor, it would pass. That’s all we’re asking for – a vote on comprehensive immigration reform that will provide smart border security, fix the broken visa system, and provide legal status to the 11-12 million undocumented immigrants living in the shadows. That is why I signed on to the discharge petition today to demand a vote on HR 15.” To learn more about H.R. 15 and see a full list of sponsors, click here. To read the CBO study on H.R. 15 released yesterday, click here.
03.21.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that the application cycle for the NURSE Corps Scholarship Program is now open. The NURSE Corps scholarship supports recipients with tuition, required fees, other reasonable educational costs and a monthly living stipend for up to four years. For every year the scholarship is awarded, the student will serve a year at a NURSE Corps-approved facility in urban, rural, or frontier areas with high need. The program requires a minimum 2-year full-time commitment or a part-time equivalent. Fifty percent of award funds will go towards nurse practitioners and financial need based on Expected Family Contribution (EFC) is greatly taken into consideration by the selection committee. “Nurses are the first in line when it comes to providing healthcare services to patients. Our country is currently experiencing a high demand in the nursing field, and we must fill it with bright and talented young people,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage interested students to apply and take this unique opportunity to fund their studies while serving the community.” Students who are U.S. citizens, nationals, or lawful permanent residents and are enrolled or accepted in an accredited diploma, associate, baccalaureate or graduate nursing program; including Registered Nurse (RN) to Bachelor of Science (BSN) Bridge Programs are eligible to apply. Students interested are encouraged to participate one of the technical assistance conference calls held on April 3 (8-10pm ET) and May 17 (1-3pm ET). To participate in the call, dial 1-800-369-3140 and enter the passcode: 9999132. Applications must be submitted by May 22, 2014 at 7:30 ET to be considered for the scholarship program. If you would like more information or are interested in learning more about the program requirements, click here.
03.20.2014	On Thursday, March 20th, Congressman Henry Cuellar joined area school districts to announce that three high school students nominated by his office had been accepted to a U.S. Service Academy. Tristan Holiday, student at Judson High School, was nominated by Rep. Cuellar and will attend the US Naval Academy. Noah Tetro, student at Judson High School, was nominated by Rep. Cuellar and will attend West Point. At Roosevelt High School, student Evan Pape was nominated by Rep. Cuellar and will attend West Point. “Acceptance into our nation’s service academies is competitive, and I take the responsibility of nominating students very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I only send those I consider the best and brightest – I am happy to say that Evan, Noah, and Tristan are among of those students. West Point and Naval Academy cadets are persons of integrity and honor – acceptance into the Academy is something each of these students, their families, and their community should be very proud of.” Both Noah and Tristan are members of Judson’s National Honor Society. They are also within the top 10% of their class. Noah has actively participated in JROTC throughout all of his high school years and he has also volunteered his service with the Campus Clean Up here at Judson. Tristan was able to attend the Naval Academy Summer Session last year and is also a Taekwondo Junior Black Belt recipient. He has also assisted with community initiatives, such as the Elf Louis Project. At Roosevelt High School, Evan’s class rank is 9 out of 641 students. He is very involved in JROTC, where he has served as commander for his battalion, the orienteering team and the academic team. Evan is a member of the UIL Mathematics, Number Sense and Social Studies academic teams. He has also volunteered for the CYO pee wee softball team at St. Benedict’s Church and even assisted a local nursing home on a trip to the Pacific War Museum in Fredericksburg, TX For more information on the nomination process and U.S. Service Academies, visit /students/serviceacademynominations.htm.
03.19.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that the Smithsonian Latino Center is now accepting application from eligible high school seniors for its Young Ambassadors Program. Students with an interest in and commitment to the arts, sciences and humanities as it pertains to Latino communities and cultures are selected to travel to Washington, D.C., for a weeklong seminar at the Smithsonian. Following the week in Washington, students participate in a four-week interdisciplinary internship in museums and cultural institutions in 17 cities across the U.S. and Puerto Rico, including Smithsonian-affiliated organizations. “My personal experiences in the nation's Capitol as a young college student shaped my entire life and career,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage young people in South Texas to take advantage of these opportunities to gain real-world skills as well as learn more about arts and culture with a world-class institution like the Smithsonian. Especially in today’s fast paced economy, it is vital that students take the time to explore their academic and professional options.” ​ For more information on the Young Ambassadors Program, watch this video created by the Smithsonian Latino Center. The Smithsonian Latino Center covers round-trip airfare to Washington, D.C. (a portion of the travel provided by Southwest Airlines), housing, and meals during the one-week training seminar at the Smithsonian Institution. The Smithsonian Latino Center will also provide a $2,000 program stipend upon the completion of the one-week training seminar and the four-week internship. It is the applicant’s responsibility to identify and cover housing, transportation, and meals for the duration of the four-week internship component. The Smithsonian Latino Center encourages applicants to select internship sites in their local region where they may be able to stay with family or friends. The program runs from June 22nd to August 1st and the deadline to apply is April 7 at 4pm CDT. For more information on the application, click here.
03.19.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the City of San Antonio has received a federal investment of $1 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, to expand and improve homeland security preparedness. The funds are specifically geared to high risk urban areas and San Antonio was one of only three cities in Texas to receive the funds. “In the first hours and days after an emergency, the burden of responding falls almost entirely on local and regional first responders – the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) has a proven track record of success giving first responders the tools they need to respond to terrorist attacks and other disasters,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have supportive of increased funds for the UASI program as a Member House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security and in collaboration with the San Antonio congressional delegation and I am pleased to see the City of San Antonio receive this federal investment that will keep our community safer and support the men and women who are the first to arrive when we need them most.” San Antonio received UASI funding in Fiscal Year 2012 but not last year in Fiscal Year 2013. The UASI program provides $587,000,000 to address the unique planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas, and assists them in building an enhanced and sustainable capacity to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism. Thirty nine cities across the country received the funds for Fiscal Year 2014. For more information on the UASI program, visit http://www.fema.gov/fy-2014-homeland-security-grant-program-hsgp.
03.13.2014	This Saturday, March 15th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar will participate in a health insurance enrollment event in conjunction with Centro Med, a local health organization part of the Enroll SA, Get Bexar Covered coalition. Almost 300,000 Texans have enrolled in a health insurance plan since open enrollment began in October. In the month of February alone, more than 90,000 Texans enrolled. The deadline to enroll in a plan for those who do not already have health coverage is March 31st. Visit www.healthcare.gov or www.cuidadodesalud.gov for more information. WHAT: Health Insurance Marketplace Enrollment Event WHEN: Saturday, March 15th 9am-8pm WHERE: Rackspace, Inc. 1 Fanatical Place Windcrest, TX 78218 If you want to enroll in a health insurance plan at the event, make sure you and your family members bring: -Social Security Numbers -Dates of birth -Permanent Resident Card or other legal documents -Employer name, address & phone -Most recent Income Tax returns -Check stubs for one month -Other income information such as award letter, etc. -Health insurance cards (if any) -Email user name & password
03.10.2014	On Monday, March 10th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development State Director, Paco Valentin, joined officials from the City of Encinal and La Salle County Judge, Joel Rodriguez for the groundbreaking of the new Encinal City Hall. “I congratulate the City of Encinal for this important milestone and new beginning for our community,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The federal investment from USDA will support the construction of a new city hall to provide expanded resources to the residents of Encinal. With the Eagle Ford Shale and recent economic boom, we need to ensure that we are investing in local infrastructure that will sustain this growth and keep our cities prospering. I thank Mayor Sanchez and Judge Rodriguez as well as the City Council, the County Commissioners, for their commitment to securing this funding. I thank United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development State Director, Paco Valentin, for his constant support of our rural communities and look forward to continuing to work on this project with him.” Rep. Cuellar and USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin join the City of Encinal, Webb County and La Salle County to break ground on the new Encinal City Hall. "The groundbreaking today represents the beginning of a new city hall facility, which will which serve as an outlet for city offices, support services, and law enforcement, in one convenient location,” said USDA Rural Development Texas State Director Paco Valentin. "USDA is committed to working with communities like Encinal to enhance the quality of life for rural Texas residents." “I am excited that no town is too small when it comes to the contributions of our federal representatives,” said Encinal City Manager, Velma Davila. “Congressman Cuellar has been an inspiration to this entire region in leading the way as South Texas cities like Encinal grow during the expansion of the Eagle Ford Shale. Our rural communities also have a great partner in United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development State Director Francisco “Paco” Valentin. He and his staff have worked hand in hand to provide guidance and funding to Encinal. On behalf of the Mayor, myself, City Staff & my consulting team Consultant Ashley Eddington & City Attorney Juan Caballero, I am excited about our future at Encinal and am confident that there is nothing that we can’t accomplish by working together.” Rendering of proposed City Hall building, provided by the City of Encinal. The City of Encinal received a Community Facilities Loan in the amount of $1,513,000 from the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The funds will allow the City to construct a new City Hall that will be almost triple the size of the current building. The new building will integrate modern energy savings components, such as double pane/ low-e glass, insulated doors and walls, energy efficient HVAC, energy efficient light fixture and low flow plumbing fixtures. The new building will include office space for the council chamber, city staff, police, municipal staff, permitting staff and the Encinal Economic Development Corporation. It will also have a pantry and a food bank for the community.
03.05.2014	On Saturday, March 8th, the Office of Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) is co-hosting an Affordable Care Act information and enrollment session along with the UT Health Science Center, Area Health Education Center, Molina Healthcare, and South Texas Development Council. With the March 31st enrollment deadline approaching, the event hopes to target anyone who needs information or assistance enrolling for health coverage. “South Texas has some of the highest rates of uninsured Americans. With the insurance marketplace, those that are uninsured are able to take personal responsibility for healthcare costs and gain access to quality and affordable coverage,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This is why I have partnered with local agencies and organizations to host an Affordable Care Act Information and Enrollment session in Laredo to raise awareness and educate the public. I encourage my constituents to take advantage of this opportunity to learn how to enroll, ask any questions they may have, and get coverage.” What: Affordable Care Act Information and Enrollment Session Date: Saturday, March 8, 2014 Time: 10:00am – 4:00pm Where: UT Health Science Center Laredo Regional Campus Library 1937 E. Bustamante St. Laredo, Texas 78041 To enroll, attendees must bring the following for every member in the household: Peronal Identification: (Ex. Texas Driver's License, Immigration Documents, Birth Certificate, Passport, or Social Security Card) Income Verification: (Ex. Pay stubs, W-2, or Income Tax Return) For more information, please call (956) 523-7494 or (956) 712-0037 or email laredolibrary@uthscsa.edu or bazanj@mrgbahec.org. ############################################################################# Congresista Cuellar y Agencias de Servicios de Salud Locales Llevan a Cabo Sesión de ACA Información e Inscripción Laredo, Texas - El sábado 8 de marzo, la oficina del Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) tendrá una sesión informativa sobre como inscribirse en un plan de cobertura médica bajo la ley de cuidado de salud a bajo precio en colaboración con UT Health Science Center, Area Health Education Center, Molina Healthcare, y South Texas Development Council. Con la llegada del fin de plazo el 31 de marzo, el evento espera orientar a personas quienes necesitan información o asistencia con el proceso de inscripción proveído por Navegantes y Consejeros certificados en la aplicación. “El sur de Texas tiene unos de los niveles más altos de americanos sin seguro. Con el Mercado de seguros, los que no están asegurados pueden tomar responsabilidad por sus costos de salud y ganar acceso a seguranza de buena calidad y bajo precio,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Esta es la razón cual decidimos colaborar con agencias locales y organizaciones para tener una sesión informativa sobre como inscribirse en un plan de cobertura médica bajo la ley de cuidado de salud a bajo precio para crear conciencia y educar al público. Si todavía no se inscribe, los animo a tomar esta oportunidad para aprender sobre como inscribirse, hacer cualquier pregunta que tenga, y recibir cobertura.” Cuando: una sesión informativa sobre como inscribirse en un plan de cobertura médica bajo la ley de cuidado de salud a bajo precio Fecha: Sábado, 8 de marzo del 2014 Hora: 10:00am-4:00pm Donde: UT Health Science Center La sesión será el 8 de marzo de 10am a 4pm y tendrá acabo en la biblioteca Laredo Regional Campus en el UT Health Science Center (1937 E. Bustamante). Para inscribirse, se necesitan los siguientes documentos para cada uno de los miembros de casa: Identificación Personal: (Ejemplos: Licencia de conductor, documentos inmigratorios, certificado de nacimiento, pasaporte, o tarjeta de seguro social) Verificación de ingresos: (Ejemplos: Talón de pago, W-2, o declaración de impuestos) Si necesita más información, puede llamar al (956) 523-7404 o (956) 712-0037 o mandar un correo electrónico a laredolibrary@uthsca.edu o bazanj@mrbahec.org.
03.05.2014	The Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today joined the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to announce $1.6 million in grants to stimulate job growth and business opportunities in chronically underserved rural areas along the Texas-Mexico border region. Rep. Cuellar’s Hidalgo County Outreach Coordinator, Alexis Gallegos, attended the event along with HUD Region VI Administrator, Tammye Treviño. “Improving the quality of life for people living in colonias has been a priority of mine both as a Texas state legislator and as a member of Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I represent part of the over 1,300 colonia communities in Hidalgo, Starr, Webb, and Zapata Counties and many people living in those areas suffer from a lack basic services that negatively impacts their quality of life. This is especially true in regards to resources for job growth and business development. I am very pleased to see this federal investment benefitting these areas in my district and I thank the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Tammye Treviño in particular for recognizing and working to meet the need in these communities.” Left to Right: Roel Gomez - USDA Rural Development Regional Director, Alexis Gallegos- Hidalgo County Outreach Coordinator with Congressman Henry Cuellar, Desire Mendez - Grants Coordinator with Congressman Ruben Hinojosa TX-15, Tammye Trevino -HUD Regional Administrator, Celina Pena – Accion Texas Chief Program Officer, Robert A. Calvillo - AHSTI Executive Director HUD grants will provide direct investment and technical assistance to community development lending and investing institutions that focus on affordable housing, small business and community facilities to benefit the residents of colonias. HUD announced grants to the following organizations: Grantee Grant Amount Target Markets Accion Texas (San Antonio, TX) $800,000 87 eligible colonias spanning 12 border counties in Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona Affordable Homes of South Texas (McAllen, TX) $600,000 Colonias located in Hidalgo, Willacy, Cameron, El Paso, and Webb counties. Community Resource Group, Inc. (Fayetteville, AR) $200,000 Colonias along Texas-Mexico Border to include Starr, Hidalgo, Cameron, and Willacy counties. For more information on the Border Initiatives Grant, visit http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/comm_planning/economicdevelopment/programs/rhed/bcci.
03.03.2014	Starting on Wednesday, March 26th through Saturday, March 29th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will co-host a STEM Alliance event with Texas A&M International University. The event hopes to target local Hispanic and female students as they are underrepresented in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics. “As students begin to consider what career path to choose, I encourage them to attend the STEM event and explore their options. It is important to provide increased support and learning opportunities so students are able to graduate and compete in a globally competitive workforce,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am glad to see that my office was able to coordinate with TAMIU and host an important event that brings awareness to the students about a possible STEM career.” What: Congressman Cuellar’s Office and TAMIU Co-host STEM Alliance Event Date: Wednesday, March 26, 2013 – Saturday, March 29, 2013 Time: 3/26 @ 12-4pm 3/27 @ 9:15am -6:30pm 3/28 @ 9:15am-2:15pm 3/29 @ 8am-4pm Where: Texas A&M International University The breakdown of events is as follows: Wed. March 26, 2014: For Counselors, Coordinators, Heads of Department, Mathematics, & Science Teachers 12:00-12:30 Dr. Arenaz, Rep. Cuellar (Student Center Ballroom) 12:30-1:00 Bella Gaia Show (on Planetarium Dome) 2:00-2:10 NASA Educators' Workshop by Valerie Casasanto 2:10-2:40 Science Presentation to Counselors (LBV 202) 2:40-4:00 Open and Tour of the Engineering Laboratories (LBV 202, 209, 211, 219) Thurs. March 27, 2014: 9:30-12:00 STEM Engagement Workshop Activities with 9th Grade High School Students 12:30-2:15 Dr. Arenaz, Scientist from NASA (Student Center Ballroom) 2:30-6:30 Professional Development and STEM Career Fair for College Students Fri. March 28, 2014: 9:15-12:00 Activities with 7th Grade Middle School Students 12:30-1:30 Dr. Arenaz, Rep. Cuellar, Scientist from NASA (Student Center Ballroom) 1:30-2:15 The TAME Trailblazers and Exhibits (1st Floor Student Center) Sat. March 29, 2014: ​For Female STEM Students and Parents 8:00-8:30 Bella Gaia Show (on Planetarium Dome) 8:30-9:00 Science Presentation by Dr. Ana Prados and Interactive Q&A (UMBC/NASA GSFC) 9:00-12:30 Preparation and Robotics Training 12:30-1:00 Lunch 1:00-1:30 Mother and Daughter Event (GEAR UP IV) 1:30-2:30 GEAR UP IV College and Career Fair Activities (Robotics Academy) and Competition in Groups 2:30-2:45 Break 2:45-4:00 Hands-on Experiments with Valerie Casasanto (Rotation Stations) 1:30-4:00 Spaceship Earth Data (SED) Workshop for Teachers by Dr. Ana Prados For more information, please contact my Laredo office at (956) 725-0639.
03.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s landmark government reform legislation, passed in 2010 as the Government Performance Results Modernization Act, continues to streamline the federal government, integrating resources and eliminating redundancy. The 2010 law required agencies to identify ambitious goals and perform frequent performance evaluations and the results of these reports have inspired other pieces of similar legislation. Agencies have submitted those reports on a quarterly basis since the law’s passage in 2010. “I authored the Government Performance Results Modernization Act (GPRA Mod) because I recognized that, in today’s economy, we cannot afford to run an inefficient government or make job creators waste time navigating complicated and confusing duplicative records,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Results oriented government is the philosophy behind effective, efficient legislative oversight, thanks to GPRA Modernization. This kind of culture change was only possible through the passage of legislation and today’s bill continues the same effort. I thank my colleague Rep. Lankford for sponsoring HR 1423 and look forward to continuing to work for a lean, effective, and efficient federal government.” On Tuesday, February 25th, the House of Representatives passed HR 1423, the Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act, which builds on the success of Rep. Cuellar’s 2010 law, which mandated that the Government Accountability Office submit annual reports on duplication and overlap within the federal government. In its first report, issued in 2011, GAO identified 81 areas of duplication and potential cost savings. In its 2012 report, GAO found 51 new areas. In 2013, GAO identified 31 additional areas where agencies could achieve greater efficiencies or effectiveness. HR 1423 expands on the same concept by requiring that each individual agency provide information annually on any duplicative programs or activity.
02.28.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (DTX-28) co-sponsored H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014, which replaces the broken Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula with an improved payment system that rewards quality, efficiency and innovation. Building on legislation unanimously supported out of committee in the House and the Senate, this bipartisan and bicameral legislation repeals the SGR, ends the need for a yearly short term patch known as the “doc fix,” and transitions Medicare away from a system where doctors are paid based on the number of patients they see towards one based on the quality of care they provide. “For more than a decade, Congress has had to step in and prevent Medicare from cutting physician payments and every time, it has robbed doctors and seniors of their peace of mind in the Medicare system,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Continuing to enact short-term patches is bad fiscal policy—equivalent to paying the monthly minimum on a credit card bill—and increases the cost of full repeal. While H.R. 4015 is a significant step forward in finding a permanent solution to this broken system and is legislation that Democrats and Republicans, as well as the House and the Senate, have been able to agree on, lawmakers are still struggling to find a way to pay for the legislation, which will cost $138.4 billion from 2014 to 2024, according to a Congressional Budget office estimate. I call on doctors across Texas to submit their ideas on how to recoup the costs this repeal will entail. I commend my colleagues for finding a solution to this pressing problem and I urge my fellow colleagues in Congress to support this legislation.”
02.26.2014	On Wednesday, February 26th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined other Texas Congressional colleagues at a breakfast reception hosted by Harmony Public Schools, a charter school system in Texas that focuses on Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics, to call for an increase in American graduates in STEM fields and increased investment in science and mathematics education. This morning’s “Harmony Capitolizing STEM” breakfast event served as an introduction of Harmony Public Schools’ presence in Washington, with a new Harmony School of Excellence being established in the DC metro area later this year. “STEM is the future of job growth in our country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Almost all of the 30 fastest-growing occupations in the next decade will require at least some background in STEM. We must encourage more young people, especially women and minority students, to pursue careers in science and mathematics. This kind of investment in education at an early stage all the way through college will create jobs and put American innovation on the map.” Rep. Cuellar joins a student at an event organized by the Harmony Public School in Washington, D.C., where he called for an increased investment in science and mathematics fields. Rep. Cuellar joins Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX) and Harmony Schools Communications Director, Julie Norton. For more information on the Harmony DC schools, visit https://www.harmonytx.org/default.aspx.
02.26.2014	On Wednesday, February 26th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) spoke at the annual High Speed Rail Summit in Washington, DC in a panel entitled “A New Vision for Transportation in America.” In his speech, the Congressman laid out his vision for a high speed rail line connecting San Antonio to Monterrey and joined other members of Congress, including Congressman Jeff Dunham, Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX). “South Texas has it all: a booming population, a thriving energy sector, and hosts, in Laredo, the #1 busiest truck, #1 busiest bus and the 3rd busiest automobile ports of entry in the United States,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Linking San Antonio to Laredo to Monterrey, Mexico by rail would connect millions of people economically to not only the busiest land port in the nation but will also show the importance and impact of bold transportation solutions. It will create jobs, link markets, and ensure a robust economy in South Texas for generations to come.” Congressman Henry Cuellar speaks at the annual High Speed Rail summit in Washington and lays out his vision for a high speed rail line connecting San Antonio, Texas and Monterrey, Mexico. A video excerpt of the Congressman remarks may be found here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3FM3pNtTndY&feature=youtu.be. For more information on the High Speed Rail summit, visit http://www.ushsr.com/events/washingtondc2014.html.
02.25.2014	The Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) can coordinate tours of the Capitol and other government buildings on a year-round basis for families in the 28th District of Texas. The tours offered include the Capitol, White House, Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Library of Congress, Supreme Court, and Kennedy Center, and may be requested through Congressman Cuellar’s official website. “I am happy to announce that tours are free and available to the constituents of my district. Washington D.C. is rich in history and I encourage everyone to explore the center of our Nation’s government,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I find it important to make these services readily available to constituents as visiting the Capitol and other historic buildings is an excellent way to learn about the political history of our great country.” Families from the 28th District of Texas can easily request tours through the Congressman’s website, https://cuellar.house.gov/, by clicking “Tour Requests” under the “Constituent Services” tab. A request form can be filled out and sent to the Washington D.C. office electronically. Please make sure to submit your tour request at least three weeks in advance of the desired tour date. Requests submitted within three weeks of the date cannot be accommodated. For more information, please visit the website or contact Congressman Cuellar’s office at (202) 225-1640.
02.24.2014	As a direct result of Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX28) landmark 2010 legislation to make the government more efficient, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released a report on Agency Priority Goals for 2012-2013. The report demonstrates significant steps towards achieving a more efficient government and bringing a positive impact for the American people. “The report shows that as a result of the Agency Priority Goals, federal agencies are focusing on issues such as achieving record levels of exports and creating millions of jobs, collaborating between agencies to reduce veterans’ homelessness, and saving taxpayers millions of dollars by improving service, preventing fraud, and reducing costs.” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am glad to see the renewed focus I envisioned when I authored the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010. I look forward to seeing even more progress towards making the government more efficient for the sake of our country and the American people.” In 2010, Congress passed Congressman Cuellar’s Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010, known as GPRA Modernization, which requires federal agencies to hold quarterly performance assessments and report the results to Congress. As a result of the legislation, OMB adopted a common-sense approach to enhancing performance at every level of government. The update has had very positive results for the American people by creating collaboration between various agencies thus saving millions in taxpayer dollars. Additionally, OMB began to create two-year Agency Priority Goals in areas where federal agencies were focused on accelerated performance improvement as well as developing government-wide Cross-Agency Priority Goals. OMB has now released a report on the performance results of the fourth quarter of 2013, reflecting the final quarterly update of the 2012-2013 Agency Priority Goals. For more information on the OMB Priority Goals, visit: http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2014/02/13/real-progress-meeting-agency-performance-goals.
02.19.2014	On Wednesday, February 19th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement calling for a cleanup of the Anzon Smelter site, located at the intersection of Mines Road and Interstate 35 in Laredo. “The ongoing hazardous waste cleanup at the Anzon Smelter site has been a concern of mine for many years. Last week, I personally placed a call to Richard Hyde, Executive Director of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), the regulating body overseeing the site, to request an update on the status of the cleanup. On February 13th, TCEQ sent a letter to the owners of the Anzon Smelter requiring that they submit a Corrective Measures Study no later than May 21, 2014 to address the waste stored on site. It is encouraging to see that TCEQ has set a hard deadline for the owners and look forward to seeing this process move forward. The cleanup of the site has not been completed, which is unacceptable to me and the community in Laredo. I want our city to be healthy and accessible and I will remain in communication with the TCEQ and the Environmental Protection Agency personally to accelerate the cleanup of the site.”
02.19.2014	On Monday, February 24th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined Texas Department of Transportation Commissioner Jeff Austin and Webb County officials to designate Loop 20 as a future section of the Interstate 69 highway. With the addition of Loop 20 into our Interstate Highway System, Laredo, Southern Texas, and I-69 will become even more vital arteries to our nation’s economy. “Texas’s roads are vital to economic activity and we should continue to foster their growth and safety,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The designation of I-69 will complement the existing Interstate 35 highway in Laredo as well as support some of the busiest freight routes in the nation, connecting cities and towns across the country to commercial opportunities once thought unheard of, lowering the cost of doing business, and making travel safer for those lives that depend on trade. I thank Jeff Austin and the Texas Department of Transportation for its support and dedication to expanding I-69 and remain committed to ensuring that we continue our investment in transportation, bringing us ever closer to a true 21st century economy.” In 2012, the ports of Laredo were number one in the nation for bus crossings with over 38,000 buses and for truck crossings with over 1.7 million trucks. These commercial crossings, along with the over 4.4 million personal vehicle crossings occurring at the ports of Laredo will play a critical role in making I-69, and Loop 20, two of the most important thoroughfares in the state of Texas.
02.18.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced a paid internship opportunity for current college students with the National Migrant & Seasonal Head Start Association in Washington, D.C. “This is a unique program geared specifically for students who participated in the Migrant & Seasonal Head Start Program to intern at a non-profit organization, federal agency, or on Capitol Hill,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Last summer, I had the opportunity to meet an outstanding student who participated in the program in Washington. I was very impressed with Erika Rios, a resident of my district living in Mission, Texas, and was glad to see she had an excellent opportunity to come to Washington and gain hands on skills and experience. Congressman Cuellar meets with Erika Rios, a student at Michigan State University, resident of Mission, Texas, and participant in the summer 2013 National Migrant & Seasonal Head Start Association. They discussed her plans for the future and her internship experience. The National Migrant & Seasonal Head Start Association (NMSHSA) seeks applicants for its upcoming internship program open to current college students who participated in a Migrant & Seasonal Head Start Program. The seven-week internship program includes: · Stipend · Housing · Work placement · Domestic roundtrip transportation to D.C. · $400 arrival allowance To receive a copy of the internship application, email internship@nmshsaonline.org or monitor the NMSHSA website at nmshsaonline.org. For more information about NMSHSA, contact Executive Director Cleo Rodriguez, Jr. at crodriguez@nmshsaonline.org. Deadline to apply is Friday, March 21. Selected interns will arrive June 12. Internship runs from June 16 to July 31. Students depart Washington, D.C. on Aug. 2.
02.18.2014	On Tuesday, February 18th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined General Services Administration Administrator Dan Tangherlini, Deputy Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, and other Administration officials to announce over $62 million in funding for improvement at Laredo’s bridges. “With these funds, Laredo will be able to modernize the infrastructure and expand the facilities at our bridges,” said Congressman Cuellar. ”This means pedestrians will no longer have to wait in long lines in the heat and buses and cars will pass more quickly across the border. It will also increase the safety of our border communities and allow for better flow of trade and commerce through our ports. I would like to thank General Services Administration Administrator Dan Tangherlini for his continued support for this project. I would also like to thank the City of Laredo as well as my colleagues Congressman Ander Crenshaw and Congressman Jose Serrano for their support of this funding.” “Laredo is a top priority for GSA, and is a perfect example of how the agency’s commitment to efficiency and savings serves federal agencies and taxpayers alike,” said General Services Administration Administrator Dan Tangherlini. “By making critical investments in America’s infrastructure today, we will create significant savings by preventing costly emergency repairs in the future.” Funding for the bridges comes as part of the Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations Bill. The expansion project will modernize Laredo’s two bridge facilities, on Convent Street and on Juarez and Lincoln. The updates will expedite the process of permit processing and moving pedestrians and improve the flow of vehicle traffic while enhancing safety and efficiency for the travelling locals and visitors. At Juarez and Lincoln, a bus terminal will also be constructed to process the more than 100 passenger buses that cross the border on a daily basis. Watch the full video of Rep. Cuellar’s speech here - http://youtu.be/XvUBW77YQ8Y.
02.18.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced today that the Zapata County Economic Development Corporation (ZEDC) has earned a competitive federal grant in the amount of $400,000 that will fund a part of the Zapata Economic Capacity Building Initiative. The fund will be used to increase the region's competitiveness, map the region's assets and develop a list of target industries that will drive economic growth. In addition, ZEDC will identify and develop strategies to address weaknesses in workforce training, infrastructure, and other critical areas that have previously inhibited economic development in Zapata County. “I am very happy to announce this investment in Zapata County and look forward to seeing the transformative impact it will have on the community,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Zapata has huge untapped potential for growth and this funding will pave the way for an increased profile for the County for economic investment. More growth in Zapata means more businesses, more jobs, and more opportunities. I congratulate the Zapata Economic Development Corporation and the County for their dedication in making Zapata a better place to live, work, and raise a family.” “This funding is all about the future, not the past,” said Peggy Umphres Moffett, President & CEO of the ZEDC. “This EDA grant helps ZEDC and its partners address the challenges of a sluggish economy and help businesses grow. It is a unique opportunity for ZEDC to demonstrate the positive benefits of unique zoning authority given to Zapata County by the Texas Legislature that no other county has, as a tool for economic development and an example of a rural county innovating. Increasing community cooperation and public-private partnerships is a way to leverage federal, state and local funds to create diverse job opportunities, increase median incomes and improve the quality of life for the county's citizens, both young and old.” “EDA’s investment in Zapata County will play a crucial role in enabling this community to build a critical foundation for future growth,” said U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Matt Erskine. “The potential for economic growth in Zapata and counties like it is there, and EDA is proud to help provide the means to allow this community to reach its full economic potential.” "I would like to congratulate the Zapata County EDC on the receipt of their grant award from the EDA,” said Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmel. “That funding will play a crucial role in the continued operation of their ongoing projects. We look forward to seeing the benefits of all their efforts." As part of the grant project, the Zapata EDC will develop a centralized GIS enabled database for mapping, community information and resources, business information, local assets and economic data of the Zapata County and the broader region that will achieve significant improvements in accessing financial resources, services, and opportunities available to the community and business. A selection of the GIS maps may be found here: http://www.zapataedc.com/PublicGallery/maps.html. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon the applicant's eligibility, the application's merit, and the availability of funds. More information on EDA's grant process and investment priorities can be found at www.eda.gov.
02.14.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Spanish language Healthcare.gov website, CuidadodeSalud.gov, has formally launched and reminded constituents that the deadline of open enrollment for new healthcare coverage under the Affordable Care Act as March 31, 2014. In January, 90,000 Texans enrolled in a healthcare plan as part of the new health insurance marketplaces, increasing total enrollment since October 1st to 207,500. Nationally, 3.3 million people have enrolled in a plan since October, an increase of 53 percent over enrollment in the previous three months. “While the deadline is fast approaching, I would like to remind the Texans of District 28 that there are many ways to enroll for healthcare coverage,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It can be done online, through phone, in person, and by mail. I encourage everyone to look for helpful government resources or call one of my offices if assistance is needed.” To apply, you may use one of the following methods: · Online o Visit healthcare.gov which is available 24/7. · By phone o Call the Toll-Free Consumer Call Center at 1-800-318-2596 which is open 24/7. · In person o Go to https://localhelp.healthcare.gov and put in your zip code to find the Navigators and certified enrollment counselors in your area. You may also go to any Community Health Center in your area to obtain assistance in applying for coverage. · By mail o You may download a paper application form along with the instructions from HealthCare.gov. After receiving an eligibility notice, you may finish the application online or by contacting the call center. For additional information on how to enroll, visit healthcare.gov. Rep. Cuellar Anuncia Lanzamiento de Cuidado de Salud Página de Web Más de 200,000 Tejanos se han inscrito en un plan de cobertura médica desde el 1 de octubre Washington, D.C. – Hoy el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) anunció el lanzamiento de la página de web en español para el mercado de salud, CuidadodeSalud.gov. Les avisó también a sus constituyentes que viene pronto el 31 de marzo que es el último día en que se puede inscribir en un plan de cobertura médica bajo de la ley de cuidado de salud a bajo precio. En enero, más de 90,000 Tejanos se inscribieron en un plan de cobertura médica, aumentando el número total de inscripción a 207,500 Tejanos desde el primer de octubre del 2013. Al nivel nacional, 3.3 millones de personas se han inscrito en un plan desde el primer de octubre, un aumento de 53 por ciento en los últimos tres meses. “Se viene pronto el último día en que se puede inscribir en un plan de cobertura médica que es el 31 de marzo, 2014,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Sin embargo, hay muchas opciones para los residentes del Distrito 28 de Texas tal como la página de web, el número de teléfono gratuito, los centros locales de ayuda con asesores certificados, y el solicitud de correo. Les animo a los residentes de mi distrito a buscar los recursos útiles o ponerse en contacto con mi oficina. ” Para empezar el proceso, se puede usar los siguientes métodos: Página de web Entra CuidadodeSalud.gov que está disponbile 24 horas al día y 7 días a la semana . Por télefono Llama al número de teléfono gratuido 1-800-318-2596 que está disponbile 24 horas al día y 7 días a la semana . En persona Entra a https://localhelp.healthcare.gov y llena su código postal para encontrar a Navegadores y asesores certificados en su área. Se puede ir también a un centro de salud comunitario para obtener más ayuda. Por correo Se puede bajar un solicitud en papel y las instrucciones desde CuidadodeSalud.gov.Después de recibir el aviso de elegibilidad se puede acabar con la solicitud en la página de web o por parte del centro de llamadas. Para más información, entra a la página de web CuidadodeSalud.gov.
02.04.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) today called on President Obama to approve long-delayed plans for the construction of the Keystone Pipeline from Canada to Texas following the release of a key environmental study on Friday. The study found that the pipeline would not cause any significant environmental impact, leaving the final decision at the desk of Secretary John Kerry and the President. “The clear linkage to job creation, the economy, and domestic energy security demonstrates that it is in our national interest to invest in this project and approve construction of the Keystone pipeline,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This most recent study shows once again that the pipeline will not have any significant environmental impact. In Texas, we are ready to move forward with construction of a valuable project that would create 42,000 jobs nationwide and add $3.4 billion to the economy, about 0.02 percent of GDP. There is no excuse to continue delaying – the only losing party will be the American economy.” The Keystone XL project proposed by TransCanada, a Canadian company, would build new pipeline to transport Alberta oil sands crude and crude oil produced in North Dakota and Montana to a market hub in Nebraska, and from there to Gulf Coast refineries by way of Texas. The proposed pipeline would deliver an estimated 830,000 barrels of oil per day. Because the pipeline would cross an international border, construction requires a presidential permit and would be subject to applicable state laws and permitting requirements. To issue a presidential permit, the State Department, after consulting with other federal agencies and providing opportunities for public comment, must determine that the project would serve the national interest. The full text of the State Department Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement may be found here.
02.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Federal Bureau of Investigation will be accepting applications for its 2014 Honors Internship Program (HIP) between January 29th and February 4th. The 10-week program runs from June 1st to August 9th and is a great opportunity for students to work with special agents, intelligence analysts, and professional staff. Interns gain valuable career experience and many use the program to springboard to an FBI career. “Experiences like these during collegiate years are what shape lives and career paths,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Internship programs provide opportunities to network and gain leadership skills. I strongly encourage students who are interested in this field to take this opportunity to complement their education with hands-on experience.” The program offers 200 paid internship positions for students in Field Offices across the country as well as in the Headquarters divisions in and around Washington, D.C. To qualify, applicants must: · Be a U.S. citizen; · Possess a GPA of 3.0 or higher; · Be an undergraduate, graduate, or post-doctorate student who will not graduate prior to June 1; · Be able to pass an FBI background investigation and receive a Top Secret security clearance. Interested students can apply online at: www.fbijobs.gov
02.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) has recently co-sponsored the Improper Payments Agency Cooperation Enhancement (IPACE) Act which aims to improve the accuracy of government death records as well as the access federal agencies have to the master death list. This could potentially translate into saving the government hundreds of millions, if not billions in taxpayer dollars. Each year, the federal government makes millions of dollars in improper payments to deceased individuals, wasting taxpayer money. Most federal agencies rely on a slimmed down, incomplete version of the list of deceased people, known as the Death Master File (DMF). With a partial and inaccurate DMF, agencies such as the Social Security Administration and the Agriculture Department have hundreds of people every month that are listed as living that are dead and vice versa. This means that improper payments are made, such as the $601 million paid to federal retirees between 2006 and 2010 that were later found to be dead. “Every taxpayer dollar should be used effectively to pay down the debt, provide care for veterans, or invest in public schools, among other top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Without the measures outlined in this important bill, federal agencies unknowingly provide expensive improper payments. As the author of the Government Performance and Results Act, a major piece of government reform legislation, I am a strong supporter of any bill that makes the government more efficient. I am glad to work with other Members who are also focused on good government and thank Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL17) for introducing this bill.” The IPACE Act requires the improvement of the Death Master File as well as allowing federal agencies to access the complete database and ensuring that federal agencies managing retirement programs share best practices. With these steps, Congressman Cuellar hopes to see a better collection of records, a decrease in fraud, and a stop of improper payments.
01.31.2014	On Thursday, January 30th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) attended the opening of the new Jourdanton City Hall and provided congratulatory remarks along with the Mayor of the City of Jourdanton, Susan Netardus. The new City Hall building includes room for a council chamber, police department, city staff offices, and municipal court, and offices for the district attorney, Department of Public Safety weights and measures, and the Texas Parks and Wildlife. The old municipal buildings provided no room for expansion, particularly for the Police Department and Municipal Court, which have seen a huge increase of traffic violations. Rep. Cuellar participates in the ribbon cutting of the new Jourdanton City Hall along with City officials. “Since I began representing Jourdanton in 2005, I have seen the city grow in leaps and bounds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The rise of the Eagle Ford Shale has brought tremendous economic development, with new businesses opening and increased tax revenue, but it has also led to a strain on government services. The community leadership in Jourdanton has had the vision to invest in infrastructure improvements. This new municipal building will provide the residents of Jourdanton with better services and convenience and allow the City to run more effectively and efficiently. I congratulate them today for the groundbreaking of their new City Hall building and look forward to seeing what the future holds for Jourdanton.” Congressman Cuellar presents a framed flag to the City of Jourdanton in recognition of the opening of the new city hall building. “The City of Jourdanton, Texas feels fortunate with Rep. Henry Cuellar being able to participate in the ceremonies opening our new 13,000 square foot Municipal Facilities on January 30, 2014,” said Dan Nick, City Manager of the City of Jourdanton. “The structure will be housing City Hall, Municipal Court, Jourdanton Police Department and City Council activities. In addition, the DPS License &Weights, District Attorney’s Office and Parks and Wild Life agencies have been supplied offices to work from. Rep. Cuellar has been actively supporting our community in so many ways over the years, it is fitting he was available to celebrate with all of us today.”
01.31.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the announcement of House Republican standards for immigration reform: “I am encouraged to see the House Republican Leadership outline a meaningful step towards reforming our country’s broken immigration system,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Immigration reform is about jobs and the economy, national security, and fostering entrepreneurship. These are principles both Republicans and Democrats can agree are vitally important to the full economic recovery of our country. Yesterday’s announcement was significant in two ways – first, it is positive to see the Republican Leadership formally outline some principles for immigration reform. Second, the House GOP Leadership announced support for a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers as well as legalization for the 11-12 million undocumented immigrations currently living in the shadows of illegal status. I support a comprehensive approach to reform that includes a path to earned citizenship for the 11-12 million undocumented immigrants living in this country. But if we want to come together to pass the reform that our country needs, we must meet somewhere in the middle, as I have advocated publically since summer of 2013. I hope that House Republicans will be similarly flexible and open to compromise as they draft legislation for the Floor. As a Congressman representing a community along the U.S.-Mexico border, and a lifelong resident of the same area, I hope that my colleagues will take the time to approach the border with the nuanced analysis it deserves. We need more resources at the border, but we must take a smart approach and not throw money at the region without assessing its needs. I have long advocated for smart, 21st Century approach that provides smart border security while not interfering with trade and commerce with one of our largest trading partners. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues across the aisle to pass legislation that will achieve our common goals.”
01.29.2014	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives by voting in support of HR 2642, the Agriculture Act of 2014, also known as the Farm Bill. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 251-166, will extend all farm and nutrition programs for five years, and includes support for South Texas ranchers negatively impacted by cattle fever ticks. “It is rare to see compromise in Washington these days and I am very glad to see Democrats and Republicans come together after nearly three years of debate on the Farm Bill,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am not pleased with every aspect of this bill, especially cuts to nutrition programs, but this legislation will modernize our agriculture support systems, save American taxpayers over $23 billion, and offer our farmers and ranchers certainty on how American agriculture policy will be regulated. This package simplifies how our farmers and ranchers are assisted by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and provides specific new assistance for ranchers in South Texas.” The Agriculture Act of 2014 does not remove a single American from supplemental nutrition assistance (SNAP), and preserves crucial benefits for millions of Texans. In all, this final package cuts $8.5 billion from nutrition program – a dramatic improvement to the $40 billion in draconian cuts the House GOP originally proposed. The 2014 Farm Bill authorizes nearly every program and portion of USDA, and this conference agreement will reshape the structure of farm commodity support, expand crop insurance coverage, consolidate conservation programs, reauthorize and revise nutrition assistance, and extend authority to appropriate funds for many U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) programs through FY2018. Historically, agriculture policy is passed by Congress every 4-5 years. However, due to disagreements on commodity and nutrition assistance, USDA has been operating on an extension since the expiration of the 2008 Farm Bill. The Farm Bill is seen as a strong bipartisan agreement between rural and urban areas in ensuring the United States continues to provide Americans with the safest most abundant food supply in the world.
01.28.2014	On January 27th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) spoke at the ribbon cutting ceremony of the UPS Laredo facility along with UPS District Manager Craig Weitz, UPS Division Manager Roger Rosas, Laredo Chamber of Commerce President Miguel Conchas, and the Mayor of Laredo Raul Salinas. The facility relocated to a more centralized location which will facilitate service. “Having a new and improved UPS hub provides many benefits to the city,” said Congressman Cuellar. “One of the most important benefits is the increase in employment opportunities for the people of Laredo. Also, the new centralized location offers easier access for residents to conduct local and international business. Trade has always been one of the main pillars of Laredo’s economy, and this will facilitate and improve commerce in the City.” Rep. Cuellar cuts the ribbon at the new UPS facility in Laredo with UPS and local city officials. The Congressman also participated in a tour of the new UPS route changing technology that the company calls “Orion.” This technology has saved 8.4 million gas gallons and will help in serving 220 countries and territories, catering to Laredo’s international trade strength. Congressman Cuellar attended the event along with Mayor Raul Salinas, the Consul General of Mexico Miguel Angel Isidro, and the President of the Laredo Chamber of Commerce Miguel Conchas. El 27 de enero, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) habló en la ceremonia de inauguración de la instalación de UPS en Laredo con el Gerente del Distrito de UPS Craig Weitz, el Gerente de División de UPS Roger Rosas, el Presidente de la Cámara de Comercio de Laredo Miguel Conchas, y el Alcalde de Laredo Raul Salinas. La instalación se trasladó a una locación más centralizada cual facilitará sus servicios. “Teniendo un centro de UPS nuevo y mejorado provee muchos beneficios a la ciudad,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Unos de los beneficios más importantes es el aumento de oportunidades de empleo para la gente de Laredo. La nueva locación centralizada también brinda acceso fácil para que residentes conduzcan negocios locales e internacionales. El comercio siempre ha sido uno de los pilares principales de la economía de Laredo y el centro de UPS ayudara a mantener ese pilar fuerte.” Al congresista también le dieron una demonstración de la nueva tecnología de UPS llamado “Orion” que cambia las rutas de trabajo de los agentes de UPS. Esta tecnología ha ahorrado 8.4 millones de galones de gasolina y ayudara en servir 220 países y territorios, atendiendo a la fuerza el comercio internacional de Laredo. El Congresista Cuellar estaba presente en el evento con el alcalde Raúl Salinas, el cónsul general de México Miguel Ángel Isidro, y el presidente de la cámara de comercio de Laredo Miguel Cochas.
01.27.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host fifth grader Luis Castañeda from Dr. Cuellar Elementary School at the nation’s capital to see President Barack Obama give the State of the Union Address. Luis was selected in an essay competition in which the first line of his paper stated, “Going to Washington D.C. with Dr. Henry Cuellar will be the highlight of my life.” Rep. Cuellar will fully cover the airfare and hotel accommodations for Luis and his mother Sylvia in Washington, D.C. Fifth grade student Luis Castañeda will fly to DC to join Rep. Cuellar for the President’s State of the Union address. “For the sake of our nation’s future, it is important to open doors for young people,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Exposure to experiences they would not have otherwise helps the younger generations learn and grow. It is even more important when experiences such as these greatly enhance what is being taught in the classrooms. I encourage adults to create educational opportunities for growth and I encourage young people to seek out and take them. Luis and his mother will be meeting Congressman Cuellar in Washington, D.C. on January 28th, the day of the anticipated annual address. The young guest will find himself among an exclusive group consisting of federal representatives and senators during President Obama’s speech and then, he will visit and explore historic sites of the District the next day. Luis Castañeda with Dr. Cuellar Elementary School Principal, Melissa Shinn. Representative Cuellar and Luis will be available on Wednesday, January 29th at 10:30am EST (9:30am CST) for interviews. Please contact Congressman Cuellar’s press secretary, Miranda Margowsky, to schedule an interview. Laredo, Texas – El Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) recibirá al estudiante de quinto grado Luis Castañeda de la primaria Dr. Cuellar en la capital de la nación para ver al Presidente Barack Obama dar su discurso del Estado de la Nación. Luis fue elegido en una competición de ensayos donde él escribió, “Ir a Washington D.C. con el Dr. Henry Cuellar sería el momento más destacado de mi vida.” El Congresista Cuellar cobrará los costos de boletos de avión y del hotel en Washington, D.C. para Luis y su madre, Sylvia. “Por el bien del futuro de nuestra nación, es importante abrir las puertas a nuestros jóvenes,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Estar expuestos a experiencias que nunca podrían tener de otro modo les ayuda aprender y crecer. Es aun más importante cuando estas experiencias mejoran y complementan a gran medida lo que están aprendiendo en el salón de clase. Les promuevo a los adultos crear estas oportunidades de crecimiento y les promuevo a los jóvenes buscar y tomar estas oportunidades.” Luis y su madre se reunirán con el Congresista Cuellar en Washington, D.C. el 28 de enero, el mismo día del anticipado discurso anual. El joven se encontrara en un grupo exclusivo de representantes y senadores federales durante el discurso del Presidente Obama. El día siguiente, podrá visitar y explorar sitios históricos del distrito federal. El representante Cuellar y Luis serán disponibles para entrevistas el miércoles, 29 de enero a las 10:30 am EST (9:30am CST). Favor de contactar a la secretaria de prensa del Congresista Cuellar, Miranda Margowsky, para coordinar una entrevista.
01.20.2014	On Wednesday, January 29th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a free workshop for attendees to learn about grant opportunities from Humanities Texas and the Texas Commission on the Arts. The workshop is aimed towards teachers, college and university faculty, non-profit museums and art galleries, and other humanities and arts professionals. Attendees will learn about available grant programs, funding for traveling exhibitions and other humanities resources and have the opportunity to ask questions of former Humanities Texas and Texas Commission on the Arts grant recipients, who will share their success stories and provide insight on the application process. “In today’s economy, young people need more than just skills and knowledge to be successful – they must have a combination of knowledge and creativity,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Exposure to the arts and humanities fosters creativity, imagination, and critical thinking. It also has a positive impact on the community at large, maintaining our traditions and bringing neighbors together. I encourage the arts and humanities professionals in Laredo to attend this workshop and learn more about how state and federal resources can help provide additional funds.” “Over the past four decades, Humanities Texas has awarded more than three thousand grants to Texas organizations for public programs relating to heritage, culture, and education,” said Humanities Texas Executive Director Michael L. Gillette. “We look forward to supporting future initiatives that advance the humanities in South Texas.” “Texas Commission on the Arts invests in a creative Texas and works to advance the state economically and culturally through the arts,” said Chuck Winkler, Program Administrator from the Texas Commission on the Arts (TCA). “TCA supports a diverse and innovative arts community in Texas, throughout the nation and internationally by providing resources to enhance economic development, arts education, cultural tourism, and artist sustainability initiatives. TCA looks forward to discovering new arts and cultural organizations in Laredo and to sharing the resources that are available.”
01.20.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that all women at risk for breast cancer will now have additional access to preventive medication under the Affordable Care Act. This new coverage requires that most health insurance plans must soon cover chemoprevention medications such as tamoxifen and raloxifine at no additional cost. “In Texas, nearly 115,000 women were diagnosed with breast cancer this past year. Breast Cancer remains one of the most pervasive cancers for women in the nation, and prevention is necessary in saving the lives of millions of women,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am glad to see the Affordable Care Act continue to deliver important benefits that promote healthy lifestyles and practices by providing Texas women expanded coverage for breast cancer prevention. .” “The Alamo Breast Cancer Foundation of San Antonio, TX applauds the decision of HHS to include in Obamacare the coverage of out-of-pocket expenses or co-pays for breast cancer prevention drugs,” said Dale Eastman, Chair of Advocacy and Government Relations at the Alamo Breast Cancer Foundation. “This change will enable women and men who carry the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene or those who are at high risk of developing breast cancer to have a choice of prevention without the burden of cost.” San Antonio Alamo Breast Cancer Foundation advocates in Washington ready to work “A terminal illness like cancer can affect not only the individual, but also communities, said Julie Bazan, Chair of the Laredo Health Coalition and Executive Director of the Mid Rio Grande Border Area Health Education Center. “When we learned about ACA providing for the cost of preventive medications (that can help reduce cancer) for women with an increased risk of breast cancer we were thrilled. This benefit is indeed a great resource for everyone in our community and will help us in our mission to educate, empower and support our community. Since 2012, 20.4 million women with private health insurance have received preventive services at no extra cost. Under the new guidelines released by the Department of Health and Human Services last week, women at risk for breast cancer due to family history, age, or other factors will now be able to access risk-preventing medication without co-pays or out-of-pocket expenses. In addition to the availability of risk-preventing medicine, women over 40 can seek chemoprevention counseling, mammogram screening, and other prevention services at no cost. For additional information consult the sites below. o Alamo Healthcare Systems Official Website http://www.alamohealthcare.com/ o Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services official website http://www.cms.gov/ o University of Texas at San Antonio Health Science Center: http://www.uthscsa.edu/cstp/areas/MidRGV.aspx o The White House Official Blog http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2014/01/09/affordable-care-act-giving-women-high-risk-breast-cancer-access-free-chemoprevention
01.17.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Homeland Security Appropriations Chairman John Carter (R-TX31) announced that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) will receive $225.7 million in funds to hire 2,000 more men and women in blue as part of the Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations Bill. The bill passed both houses of Congress this week and will now be signed into law by the President. “Increasing the number of men and women in blue who man our ports of entry is a huge step in addressing delays at our ports of entry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As Members of the Appropriations Committee, we work to ensure that CBP has the personnel and tools to protect our border, keep lines short, and move goods and people efficiently. This new increase of CBP officers will achieve the goal of facilitating trade, travel and boost economic development. I would like to thank Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Price for their support in this project.” CBP operates 329 POEs across the U.S., while patrolling nearly 2,000 miles of border with Mexico, 4,000 miles with Canada and 2,600 miles of coastal waters. In FY 2012 alone, CBP processed more than 350 million travelers and facilitated $2.3 trillion dollars worth of trade. “The additional 2,000 CBP officers will enable us to safely increase the flow of commerce coming in and out of the United States,” said Chairman Carter. “We must decrease the unacceptable delays that many of our Texas ports have been experiencing for years, which has hindered trade and job growth. This program is a significant step in the right direction to help increase business, spur American job growth and strengthen commerce in our local port communities, which help drive our country’s economic success.” Laredo is the largest land port of entry in the United States, accounting for 44.91 percent of all U.S. – Mexico trade. About 12,000 commercial trucks cross the World Trade Bridge and Columbia Bridge in Laredo each day. According to a Department of Commerce study, in 2008, border delays at the five busiest southern border POEs, which includes Laredo, cost the U.S. economy 26,000 jobs and $6 billion dollars in output. The increased CBP officers at ports of entry will speed up customs clearance, aiding in the flow of traffic and spurring economic development. The Department of Homeland Security received $39.27 billion in discretionary appropriations for Fiscal Year 2014, $1.65 billion above 2013 sequestration levels. The additional funding will allow the agency to address many major funding priorities in addition to hiring new CBP officers, including grants and research. Congresista Cuellar anuncia que el CBP recibirá fondos para contratar 2,000 oficiales adicionales Agentes adicionales del CBP ayudarán a reducir las filas en los puentes internacionales Washington, D.C. – Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) anunció que la agencia de aduanas y protección fronteriza, CBP por sus siglas en ingles, recibirá $225.7 millones en fondos para contratar a 2,000 agentes más como parte de la ley de apropiaciones del año fiscal 2014. La ley pasó en las dos cámaras del Congreso esta semana y ya sea firmado a ley por el Presidente. “Aumentando el número de hombres y mujeres de azul quienes aseguran nuestros puertos de entrada es un gran paso en tratar con los retrasos en nuestros puertos de entrada,” dijo el representante Cuellar. “Necesitamos que aprovechar cada oportunidad para asegurar que el CBP tenga las herramientas necesarias para proteger nuestra frontera, mantener las filas cortas, y mover los bienes y las personas eficientemente. Este aumento de agentes del CBP logrará la meta de facilitar comercio, viaje y mejorar el desarrollo económico.” CBP opera 329 puntos de entrada a través de los Estados Unidos, mientras patrulla cerca de 2,000 millas de frontera con México, 4,000 millas con Canadá, y 2,600 millas de aguas costeras. Solamente en el año fiscal 2012, CBP procesó más de 350 millones de viajeros y facilitó $2.3 trillones de dólares en comercio. “Los 2,000 agentes adicionales del CBP nos permitirá a incrementar seguramente el fluyo de comercio entrando y saliendo de los Estados Unidos,” dijo el Congresista Carter. “Debemos reducir los retrasos inaceptables que muchos de nuestros puertos de entrada han experimentado por años, cuales han impedido el crecimiento comercial y de empleos. Este programa es un paso significante en la dirección correcta para ayudar a incrementar el negocio, estimular el crecimiento de empleos Americanos, y fortalecer el comercio en nuestras comunidades de puertos locales, cuales ayudan a impulsar el éxito económico de nuestra nación.” Laredo es el puerto de entrada terrenal más grande en los Estados Unidos, lo que representa el 44.91 porciento de todo comercio entre los Estados Unidos y México. Cerca de 12,000 camiones comerciales cruzan el Puente Internacional y el Puente Colombia en Laredo cada día. Según un estudio del Departamento de Comercio, en el 2008, retrasos en la frontera en cinco de los puertos de entrada más ocupados del sur, cuales incluye Laredo, costó 26,000 empleos y $6 billones de dólares en producción a la economía Americana. El aumento de oficiales de CBP en puertos de entrada agilizará el despacho de aduanas, ayudando el fluyo de tráfico y estimulando el desarrollo económico. El Departamento de Seguridad Nacional recibió $39.27 billones en apropiaciones discrecionales para el Año Fiscal 2014, $1.65 billones más que los niveles del sequester del 2013. Los fondos adicionales permiten a la agencia tratar varias prioridades de fondos mayores además de contratar nuevos oficiales de CBP, incluyendo becas e investigación.
01.15.2014	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Port of Laredo will receive $61,686,000 in funds from the General Services Administration (GSA) as part of the Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations bill. These funds will go directly towards making updates to Laredo’s ports of entry that will increase efficiency and improve safety and security for city residents. “I have been working for a long time to secure federal funding to update Laredo ports of entry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With these funds, Laredo will be able to modernize the infrastructure and expand the facilities at our bridges. This means pedestrians will no longer have to wait in long lines in the heat and buses and cars will pass more quickly across the border. It will also increase the safety of our border communities and allow for better flow of trade and commerce through our ports. I would like to thank the City of Laredo as well as my colleagues Congressman Ander Crenshaw and Congressman Jose Serrano for their support of this funding. I would also like to thank General Services Administration Administrator Dan Tangherlini in particular for his continued support for this project.” The expansion project will modernize Laredo’s two bridge facilities, on Convent Street and on Juarez and Lincoln. The updates will expedite the process of permit processing and moving pedestrians and improve the flow of vehicle traffic while enhancing safety and efficiency for the travelling locals and visitors. At Juarez and Lincoln, a bus terminal will also be constructed to process the more than 100 passenger buses that cross the border on a daily basis. An official announcement of the funds for Laredo bridges with GSA Administrator Dan Tangherlini will take place in the near future. The House of Representatives is expected to pass the FY 2014 Appropriations bill today and then send it to the Senate for approval. Puertos de Entrada en Laredo Recibirán Casi $62 Millones de Fondos Federales Se espera que el Congreso apruebe presupuesto federal que contiene fondos para los puentes en Laredo Laredo, Texas – Hoy, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) anunció que el Puerto de Laredo recibirá $61,800,000 en fondos federales de la Administración de Servicios Generales en el presupuesto federal del año fiscal de 2014. Con estos fondos, se puede realizar modernizaciones a los puertos de entrada que llevarán a cabo un aumento de eficiencia y un mejoramiento de seguridad para los residentes de la ciudad. “Llevo mucho tiempo trabajando para adquirir fondos federales para realizar modernizaciones a los puertos de entrada en Laredo,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Con estos fondos, se podrá mejorar la infraestructura y facilidades en nuestros puentes. Esto significa que los peatones ya no tendrán que esperar largas filas en el calor mientras que los autobuses y carros podrán pasar más rápido por nuestra frontera. Asimismo, aumentará la seguridad de nuestras comunidades fronterizas y permitirá un mejor flujo de comercio a través de nuestros puertos. Quiero darle las gracias a la cuidad de Laredo así como también a mis colegas los congresistas Andrew Crenshaw y Jose Serrano por su apoyo a esta financiación. También, quiero darle las gracias en particular al administrador de la Administración de Servicios Generales, Dan Tangherlini, por su constante apoyo hacia este proyecto.” El proyecto de expansión modernizará las instalaciones de los dos puentes en Laredo, en las calles de Convent y en Juárez y Lincoln. Las actualizaciones acelerarán el proceso de procesamiento de permisos, del movimiento de peatones y mejorará el flujo de tráfico vehicular mientras que también mejorará la seguridad y eficaz de los resident y visitantes. En Juárez y Lincoln, una terminal de autobuses será construida para procesar los más de 100 autobuses de pasajeros que cruzan la frontera a diario. Un anuncio oficial de los fondos utilizados para los puentes de Laredo con el Administrador del GSA, Dan Tangherlini, tomará a cabo pronto. En la Cámara de Representantes se espera que pase la ley de asignaciones para el año fiscal 2014 a finales de esta semana y, a continuación, enviarlo al Senado para su aprobación.
01.14.2014	Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee Member Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Chairman John Carter (R-TX31) today announced that the FY14 budget will authorize U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to initiate public-private partnership pilots for infrastructure improvements at ports of entry along the Texas-Mexico border. Millions of dollars in commerce cross the southern border every day. In 2012, trade between the United States and Mexico totaled over $470 billion, roughly the equivalent of $1.3 billion a day or $1 million a minute. The City of Laredo, the largest inland port in the country, accounts for 45 percent of all trade with Mexico. While this growth has created major economic benefits, it has also left CBP stretching resources to ensure its mission is accomplished. To address the challenge of growing trade while also maintaining security at the border, Congressman Carter, Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and Congressman Cuellar, who serves as a member of Chairman Carter’s Subcommittee, offered legislation permitting CBP to enter into agreements with private industry to help grow travel and trade at U.S. ports-of-entry. “Delays at the border cause the U.S. economy to lose billions of dollars in trade and commerce,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Public-private partnerships provide an opportunity for state and local governments and business to step in where the federal government falls short. The passage of this initiative will allow the private sector to invest in infrastructure improvements at our ports of entry will be a win for border communities and the entire state of Texas. I thank Chairman Carter for his leadership on this issue and his willing to work with me and congratulate the ports that will benefit.” The 2014 Homeland Security Omnibus strengthens border security, promotes job growth through trade and provides critical security for the Homeland. “Allowing Private/Public partnerships will help us secure our country while building a stronger economy and creating jobs inside and outside the United States,” said Chairman Carter. “Through this initiative, we can grow our economies while encouraging trade in a safe and responsible manner.” The House of Representatives is expected to pass the omnibus later this week and send it to the Senate for approval before Federal spending expires on January 18
01.13.2014	On Thursday, January 23rd, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a free video conference for local government officials, K-12 schools, colleges and universities, and non-profits to learn about the State and Federal Surplus Property Programs, which donate or sell used government equipment. “This is an excellent opportunity for local organizations to save money by acquiring repurposed federal goods,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Innovative programs like these provide a creative way for the federal and local governments to join forces and save tax dollars. I thank the Texas Facilities Commission, U.S. General Services Administration, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration for sharing their expertise on these programs and encourage local governments and organizations to attend this workshop to learn more about non-traditional ways to acquire supplies.” Available property includes heavy equipment, office supplies, vehicles, tools, furniture, medical and lab equipment, clothing, camping equipment, and more. The workshop will provide information on what kind of property is available, including pricing and shipping, how to find available equipment, eligibility to participate in the programs, and compliance requirements. The workshop will feature presentations from the Texas Facilities Commission, the General Services Administration, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. For more information on the Texas State Surplus Property Program, visit http://tfc.state.tx.us/divisions/supportserv/prog/fedsurplus. U.S. General Service Administration - How to Acquire Surplus Federal Property http://gsa.gov/portal/content/104591 NASA Space Programs - Historic Artifacts Program http://gsaxcess.gov/NASAWel.htm
01.09.2014	The Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a two community workshops to help Starr County residents learn about their healthcare options in the Health Insurance Marketplace, the first on Saturday, January 18th in Rio Grande City and the second on Wednesday, January 22nd in San Isidro. The workshops will feature presentations in English and Spanish from Enroll America and the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) as well as time to meet face-to-face with a certified application counselor from local health centers. “The Affordable Care Act gives people the opportunity to purchase affordable health insurance coverage and take charge of their health care costs, many for the first time ever,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In Starr County, 34.6% of people do not have insurance, one of the highest rates in the nation. The deadline to enroll in a plan is March 31, 2014 and I encourage Starr County residents to come to this workshop to receive face-to-face help and advice about their new health care options.” Anyone who wants to enroll in a plan should make sure they consult this checklist about items to bring. o Social Security Number (or document numbers for immigrants) o Employer and income verification for every member of your household who needs coverage (such as pay stubs or W2 forms) o Policy numbers for any current health insurance plans covering members of your household o A completed Employee Coverage Tool form if someone in your household is eligible for a job-based plan http://marketplace.cms.gov/getofficialresources/publications-and-articles/marketplace-application-checklist.pdf WHAT: Two Community Workshops for Starr County Residents to Learn about the Health Insurance Marketplace WHEN: Saturday, January 18, 2014 English Presentations 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM Spanish Presentations 10:40 AM – 11:10 AM English Presentations 11:20 AM – 11:50 AM Spanish Presentations 12:00 PM – 12:30 PM South Texas College General Academics Building E 142 N FM 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582 Wednesday, January 22, 2014 Presentations in English and Spanish: 10:00 AM - 10:30 AM 11:00 AM – 11:30 AM 12:00 PM – 12:30 PM 1:00 PM - 1:30 PM San Isidro Independent School District 1575 FM 1017 San Isidro, Texas 78588 WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar Enroll America MHP, Inc. Nuestra Clínica del Valle Cognosante Valley Baptist Health System AARP Starr County Starr County Industrial Foundation South Texas College San Isidro ISD
01.06.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Monty Small, CEO of Atascosa Health Center, Inc. announced on Monday that Atascosa Health Center has earned a competitive federal grant of $63,955 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Atascosa Health Center was one of 1,157 centers across the county that received $58 million in grant funding. With these funds, Atascosa Health Center will be able to expand its enrollment assistance efforts and help more Atascosa, McMullen, and Wilson County residents gain access to affordable health insurance. In July, Atascosa Health Center earned a grant of $120,215 in the first round of funding awarded by HHS. “Local community centers like Atascosa Health Center are where the rubber hits the road in implementation of the new health insurance marketplace,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This investment means that health centers can provide expanded assistance for people in Atascosa County looking for resources to help them understand their insurance options and enroll in affordable coverage. It’s simple – when we help local organizations help themselves, they can provide the kind of face to face, personalized care and assistance that gives taxpayers the guidance they need to enroll in new plans. I congratulate Atascosa Health Center and its staff for the excellent job they have done in helping Atascosa County residents gain access to quality, affordable health care. Certified Application Counselor Mandy Luther helps Floresville resident Ivannia Pyeatt enroll in a health insurance plan at the Atascosa Health Center. Gloria Santos, a resident of Charlotte, Texas, is one of many people in Atascosa County who received one-on-one assistance from Atascosa Health Center. Ms. Santos, who had never before had health insurance, signed up for a plan with the help of the certified application counselors at Atascosa Health Center. According to Ms Santos, Health Center staff explained the whole application process and provided her with materials so that she could learn more about her options. Ms. Santos’s health care plan will begin on February 1st, 2014. “Without the support and funding from HHS, Atascosa Health Center would be unable to provide the personal, one-to-one assistance that our residents need and deserve,” said Monty Small, CEO of the Atascosa Health Center. “For many of our residents this is the first time affordable health insurance has been available to their family. I want to let everyone know that our outreach and enrollment service is free and confidential. I urge anyone under the age of 65 to contact Angelica Garza to set up an appointment and learn how to become insured.” Residents of Atascosa, McMullen and Wilson Counties can contact Angelica Garza, Outreach and Enrollment certified application counselor at 830-569-2527 or Mandy Luther at the Wilson Health Center at 830-393-9390 to set up an appointment. There is no fee for this assistance. For a list of health centers receiving this funding, visit: www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2013tables/outreachandenrollment/. To learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.HealthCare.gov. To learn more about HRSA’s Health Center Program, visit http://bphc.hrsa.gov/about/index.html.
01.03.2014	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Mike Trevino, CEO of Gateway Community Health Center, announced on Monday that Gateway Community Health Center has earned a competitive federal grant of $130,182 from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Gateway Community Health Center was one of 1,157 centers across the county that received $58 million in grant funding. With these funds, Gateway Community Health Center will be able to expand its enrollment assistance efforts and help more Webb, Zapata, and Jim Hogg County residents gain access to affordable health insurance. In July, Gateway earned a grant of $224,286 in the first round of funding awarded by HHS. “Local community centers like Gateway are where the rubber meets the road in implementation of the new health insurance marketplace,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This investment means that health centers can provide expanded assistance for people looking for resources to help them understand their insurance options and enroll in affordable coverage. It’s simple – when we help local organizations help themselves, they can provide the kind of face to face, personalized care and assistance that gives taxpayers the guidance they need to enroll in new plans. I congratulate Gateway Community Health Center and its staff for the excellent job they have done in helping Webb, Zapata, and Jim Hog County residents gain access to quality, affordable health care.” According to Gateway Community Health Care, the center processed 478 applications to the health insurance marketplace in December 2013. Maria E. Bustamante, a resident who enrolled in a plan with the help of Gateway Community Health Care said, “As long as it [health insurance] remains something accessible, everything is good because we need it. [Gateway] assisted us very well, it didn’t take much time, and the young women who helped us was very kind.” Maria E. Bustamante (center, pictured here with her family) enrolled in a plan on the health insurance marketplace with the help of Gateway Community Health Care. “We are elated to have received an additional $130,000.00 from HRSA to increase our Outreach and Enrollment capacity,” said Mike Trevino, CEO of Gateway Community Health Center, Inc. “The application and enrollment process, which moved very slowly at the inception due to problems with the online process created a backlog which caused frustration and many participants to lose interest in enrolling. With the additional funds, more staff will be hired to call and assist residents from Jim Hogg, Zapata and Webb Counties who became discouraged from continuing with the application process or new residents who never inquired about the Health Insurance Marketplace.” “The Affordable Care Act, also known as Obama Care, is something new,” Trevino mentioned. “Many people do not understand how it works and like all new programs, there is a great need to educate the public regarding the Act and what it is intended to do. At this time the application process has improved exponentially. Therefore, the Center has designated a phone line with additional staff to assist the public with any questions or information they may need regarding the Health Insurance Marketplace and the application process. The Center’s new Hot Line is (956)523-3622.” For a list of health centers receiving this funding, visit: www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2013tables/outreachandenrollment/. To learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.HealthCare.gov. To learn more about HRSA’s Health Center Program, visit http://bphc.hrsa.gov/about/index.html. Rep. Cuellar Anuncia que Gateway Community Health Center Ganó $130,000 en Fondos Federales Laredo, Texas – El Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) y Miguel Treviño, Director Ejecutivo de Gateway Community Health Center anunciaron hoy que Gateway Community Health Center ganó $130,182 en fondos federales competitivos del Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos (HHS). Gateway Community Health Center fue uno de los 1,157 centros a través del país que recibieron $58 millones en fondos federales. Con estos fondos, Gateway Community Health Center podrá ampliar sus esfuerzos para ayudarles a más residentes de los Condados de Webb, Zapata, y Jim Hogg a inscribirse en el nuevo Mercado de Seguro Médico. “Los centros de cuidado de salud locales como Gateway Community Health Center juegan uno de los papeles más importantes en la implementación del nuevo Mercado de Seguro Médico,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Con esta inversión, centros de cuidado de salud pueden proporcionar más recursos y ayuda a las personas que están tratando de entender sus opciones de seguro médico y de inscribirse en cobertura de bajo precio. Es muy sencillo – cuando ayudamos a organizaciones locales, se siente el impacto al nivel local y esas organizaciones pueden ofrecer apoyo cara a cara a la gente que lo necesite más para inscribirse en planes nuevos de seguro médico. Felicito a Gateway Community Health Center y su personal por su servicio excelente al pueblo de los condados de Webb, Zapata, y Jim Hogg.” Según reportes de Gateway Community Health Center, el centro ayudó con 478 solicitudes al Mercado de Seguro Médico en el mes de diciembre de 2013. Maria E. Bustamante, una persona que se inscribió con la ayuda de Gateway, dijo, “Mientras que sea algo accesible, pues todo está bien porque todos lo necesitamos. Nos atendieron muy bien y no se tomo mucho tiempo y la señorita que nos atiendo fue muy amable. “Estamos muy felices de recibir $130,000 de fondos adicionales de HRSA para poder ampliar nuestras actividades de inscripción y darse conocer al pueblo sobre los temas de seguro médico,” dijo Mike Treviño, Director Ejecutivo de Gateway Community Health Center, Inc. “El proceso de solicitar e inscribirse empezó muy lentamente a causa de problemas con el proceso del sitio de web, resultando en trabajo acumulado que ha creado mucha frustración y reducción de interés en inscribirse para mucha genta. Sin embargo, con estos fondos adicionales, podemos contratar a más personal para llamarles y ayudarles a los residentes de los condados de Jim Hogg, Zapata, y Webb que se han desanimados de solicitar o que nunca han preguntado sobre el Mercado de Seguro Médico.” “La ley de Cuidado de Salud que se conoce como Obamacare, es algo nuevo,” dijo Treviño. “Mucha gente no entiende cómo es que funciona el Mercado y, como todos los programas nuevos, es necesario darse conocer a la gente sobre la Ley y su intención. En este momento, el proceso de solicitar ha mejorado de manera exponencial. Por eso, Gateway creyó una línea telefónica nueva para ayudarle al público con cualquier pregunta o duda que tengan sobre el Mercado de Seguro Médico y el proceso de solicitar. El número de la Linea de asistencia es (956)523-3622.” Para una lista de centros de ciudado de salud locales que recibieron estos fondos, visite a: www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2013tables/outreachandenrollment/. Para aprender más sobre la Ley de Ciudado de Salud visite www.HealthCare.gov. Para aprender más sobre el programa de Centros de Ciudado de Salud, visite http://bphc.hrsa.gov/about/index.html.
12.19.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Department of Homeland Security is offering semester long internships in its cybersecurity division for current college students. “I want to make sure that college students in Texas are aware of this exciting opportunity to gain valuable work experience and keep our country safe through service with a top government agency,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In today’s economy, students must ensure they explore experience both inside and outside of the classroom to succeed in the workforce. I encourage college students to take advantage of this opportunity with the Department of Homeland Security.” The Department of Homeland Security is offering 100 unpaid student volunteer assignments at field offices across the country. Interns will support cyber security operations at DHS's forensic labs. Internship opportunities are available in Austin, Dallas, Houston, El Paso, and San Antonio, as well as other locations across the country. The deadline for application is January 3, 2014. Interns will begin in Spring 2014 and participate throughout the summer. Learn more about the program here and begin your application here.
12.19.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released figures highlighting how, under the Affordable Care Act, over 357,000 young Texans and 3 million young adults nationally have gained insurance because they can now stay on their parents’ health plans until their 26th birthday. “It used to be the case that many insurance companies would kick young adults off of their parents’ health plans on their 19th birthday or when they stopped being a full-time student,” said Congressman Cuellar. “For many young adults, this is the time when they need the stability of being able to stay on their parents’ plans the most as they transition in and out of school or jobs. Now, because of the Affordable Care Act, young Texans and their families will have the security and flexibility of continued health coverage.” Additionally, many young adults will be newly eligible for Medicaid thanks to the opportunity provided by the Affordable Care Act to states to expand eligibility to all adults with incomes below 133% of poverty (about $15,000 for an individual). And many more young adults will be eligible for tax credits to help purchase affordable health plans through the new Marketplace. In fact, nearly 5 in 10 single, uninsured young adults eligible for plans in the Marketplace may be able to purchase a plan for $50 per month or less after tax credits and nearly 7 in 10 may be able to pay $100 or less for coverage in 2014. Importantly, due to the ACA, none of these young adults will have to worry about being denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition like asthma or diabetes.
12.18.2013	On Wednesday, December 18th, Congressman Henry Cuellar and Laredo Center for the Arts Executive Director Gabriel Castillo announced that the Laredo Center for the Arts had earned a $10,000 competitive grant to support their program titled “The Book Nook Academy.” The grant funds come from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Art Engagement in American Communities program for projects that extend the reach of the arts to underserved populations. The International Bank of Commerce in Laredo also matched the grant funding for the Laredo Center for the Arts. “I am pleased to see the federal government partnering with the Laredo Center for the Arts to further the promotion of the arts here in Laredo—especially amongst our community’s youth,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “A child’s education is not complete unless it includes the arts. In today’s economy, people need more than just skills and knowledge to be productive and innovative participants in the workforce—there must be a combination of knowledge and creativity. I applaud the Laredo Center for the Arts for its success application and I look forward to seeing the results of its continued efforts to engage children in the world of the arts.” Congressman Henry Cuellar, Gabriel Castillo, Executive Director of the Laredo Center for the Arts, Gabriela Carriedo Vice President Marketing and Public Relations for IBC, and Laredo Center for the Arts Board Members present the grant earned by LCA through a competitive application process. "The National Endowment for the Arts grant will enhance our arts and literacy projects for the upcoming year,” said Gabriel Castillo, Executive Director of the Laredo Center for the Arts. “This program inspires students to read while learning about our border heritage and traditions. It is the perfect combination to promote, develop and preserve the arts and enhance the cultural experience for young people from all walks of life." “The Book Nook Academy” program will provide students within the ages of 6 to 14 with a new, fun-filled learning experience into the world of the arts by hosting a variety of workshops on topics such as musical theater, the culinary arts, traditional dance troupes, broadcast journalism, and many more. Congressman Cuellar speaks tours the Laredo Center for the Arts and speaks with attendees of the grant presentation event.
12.17.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (DTX-28) announced that approximately 726,200 consumers in Texas received an average rebate of approximately $95 per family because of new rules under the Affordable Care Act in 2013. Under new regulations in the ACA, if insurance companies do not meet new standards established by the health care reform law, insurers must send consumers a rebate. “If insurance companies do not spend at least 80% of premiums on medical care and efforts to improve the quality of care, they must send their costumers a rebate to meet this threshold,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Texas families deserve to have affordable, quality health care that is a reflection of their hard earned dollars. I am pleased to see that the Affordable Care Act has reinforced these benefits for consumers and Texas tayxpayers.” In 2012, nearly 80 million consumers saved $3.4 billion upfront on their premiums because of this rule and other Affordable Care Act programs. And because of this rule, insurers sent 8.5 million consumers an average rebate of approximately $100 per family this year. The health care law also requires insurance companies to publicly post and justify any proposed rate increase of 10 percent or more. Across the country, insurers are withdrawing or decreasing proposed rate hikes, benefitting families as well the economy.
12.13.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released figures highlighting recent data that show that the Affordable Care expands mental health and substance use disorder benefits and federal parity protections for approximately 60 million Americans– including more than five million Texans – representing one of the largest expansions of mental health and substance use disorder coverage in a generation. Because of the health care law, for the first time insurance companies in the individual and small group market are required to cover mental health and substance use disorder services as one of ten categories of essential health benefits. Additionally, insurance companies must cover these services at parity with medical and surgical benefits, which means things like out-of-pocket costs for behavioral health services must generally be comparable to coverage for medical and surgical care. “It is of the utmost importance that all Americans receive equal access to mental health services,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Under the law, insurance companies are now required to cover these services at parity with other medical benefits. I encourage the five million Texans who now have expanded access to take full advantage of their increased coverage to seek any care they may need. I hope that institutions such as school districts, hospitals, and healthcare centers will do their part to spread the word about these newly available benefits.” An estimated one in five adults experiences a mental illness in any given year. While most mental illnesses are treatable, those with mental illness too often cannot access needed treatment if they do not have health insurance that covers mental health services. The Affordable Care Act requires most health plans to cover recommended preventive services like depression screenings for adults and behavioral assessments for children at no cost to consumers. And, because of the law, starting in 2014 insurers will not be able to deny coverage or charge individuals more due to pre-existing conditions, including mental illnesses.
12.12.2013	With the support of Congressman Henry Cuellar, Congress passed the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act. This legislation provides crucial advancements to our national defense policy, including a provision by Rep. Cuellar which develops joint testing and training of unmanned aircraft and systems between the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Federal Aviation Administration. This provision will lead to more border resources by better training and equipping pilots to operate unmanned aircraft for the purposes of border security. “As we tighten the belt of federal spending, it is important we leverage our resources to their fullest extent – especially when those resources are used to protect our border and prepare our soldiers for the future,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Improvements to our training and testing procedures mean more resources without more spending. This means more eyes in the sky protecting our border.” In addition to the provision Cuellar secured, the FY14 NDAA also makes several improvements to our national defense policy, while still providing all promised pay, benefits, and protection for our troops. Additionally, the bill contains important advancements in combating sexual assault in the military, religious liberties protections, ensuring our men and women serving can do so without fear of their safety or beliefs. With the ongoing budget cuts, the legislation also provides for a restructuring of resources in the Department of Defense, to ensure combat readiness is not compromised as the agencies trim excess assets and services. Finally, the law provides our armed services a plan for winning the war in Afghanistan, and strengthening our resolve in Syria, Iran, and Libya. A full summary of the legislation can be seen here: http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=127E1D4B-DD70-4B69-80DC-A036DA7B3519 This bipartisan legislation is expected to be passed in the Senate next week and signed into law by President Obama in the coming weeks.
12.12.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar voted on Thursday in favor of a common sense budget deal that funds the government for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 and prevents another government shutdown. The deal, brokered by Democratic and Republican representatives from the House and Senate, ends years of partisan over the budget and is a positive and hopeful example of both parties coming together in a compromise. This agreement does not include everything, but it is a good bipartisan effort that ends the gridlock and is the type of effort that should continue in Washington. “With this deal, we have broken through the partisan rancor that has defined Washington for the past few years and removed the threat of another government shutdown,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In fact, this is the first budget deal passed in a divided government since 1986. I congratulate Democratic and Republican leadership for working together to develop legislation that benefits and protects the American people, including federal workers, students, veterans, and the middle class." Key aspects of the deal include: Replacement of a portion of the across the board cuts known as sequestration for defense and non-defense programs Medicare and Social Security remain intact Relief for doctors facing Medicare reimbursement payment cuts
12.11.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the recent announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regarding a cost-of-living increase for veterans, families, and survivors receiving disability compensation and pension benefits: “We have an obligation to care for America’s veterans and their families for their bravery and service to our country,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I support the passage of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2013 because it bolsters the amount of funds provided to nearly 4 million veterans for disability compensation and to over 360,000 surviving family members for dependency and indemnity compensation. Ensuring that our veterans receive the benefits they deserve is of utmost importance to me, and I am proud to see this increase taking effect in 2014.” The 1.5 percent change will increase monthly benefits payments beginning Jan. 1, 2014. Among the veterans estimated to receive such compensation are 136,897 World War II veterans; 140,169 Korean Conflict veterans; 1,327,348 Vietnam-era veterans; 1,546,030 veterans of the Gulf War era; and 695,574 veterans who served during peacetime. For more information about VA benefits, visit www.benefits.va.gov, or call 1-800-827-1000.
12.10.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the recent announcement by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regarding a cost-of-living increase for veterans, families, and survivors receiving disability compensation and pension benefits: “We have an obligation to care for America’s veterans and their families for their bravery and service to our country,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I support the passage of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2013 because it bolsters the amount of funds provided to nearly 4 million veterans for disability compensation and to over 360,000 surviving family members for dependency and indemnity compensation. Ensuring that our veterans receive the benefits they deserve is of utmost importance to me, and I am proud to see this increase taking effect in 2014.” The 1.5 percent change will increase monthly benefits payments beginning Jan. 1, 2014. Among the veterans estimated to receive such compensation are 136,897 World War II veterans; 140,169 Korean Conflict veterans; 1,327,348 Vietnam-era veterans; 1,546,030 veterans of the Gulf War era; and 695,574 veterans who served during peacetime. For more information about VA benefits, visit www.benefits.va.gov, or call 1-800-827-1000.
12.10.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute is currently accepting applications for its 2014 Internship Program. The program provides college students with a paid internship opportunity in a Congressional office and access to nationally renowned professional development programs. “My personal experiences in the nation's Capitol as a young college student shaped my entire life and career,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The fully-paid internship program provides college students an outstanding work experience in our nation’s capitol, leadership development programs, and the opportunity to network with other young professionals. I strongly encourage interested students to apply and enhance their education outside of the classroom.” For more information about the program benefits and requirements, visit the CHCI website here: http://www.chci.org/internships/ Application Deadline: Summer 2014 Congressional Internship—January 31, 2014 Fall 2014 Congressional Internship—April 25, 2014
12.09.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute is currently accepting applications for its 2014 Internship Program. The program provides college students with a paid internship opportunity in a Congressional office and access to nationally renowned professional development programs. “My personal experiences in the nation's Capitol as a young college student shaped my entire life and career,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The fully-paid internship program provides college students an outstanding work experience in our nation’s capitol, leadership development programs, and the opportunity to network with other young professionals. I strongly encourage interested students to apply and enhance their education outside of the classroom.” For more information about the program benefits and requirements, visit the CHCI website here: http://www.chci.org/internships/ Application Deadline: Summer 2014 Congressional Internship—January 31, 2014 Fall 2014 Congressional Internship—April 25, 2014
12.09.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released figures highlighting the number of individuals in Texas who have gained access to free preventive care like recommended cancer screenings and immunizations because of the Affordable Care Act – including both individuals with private insurance and seniors enrolled in Medicare. Due to ACA, 5,198,000 Texans received expanded coverage of one or more preventive services in 2011 and 2012, according to an analysis by HHS. Furthermore, due to ACA, 2,266,929 Medicare enrollees in Texas received one or more free preventive services in 2012, according to HHS. “The Affordable Care Act is allowing access to free recommended preventive services for hundreds of thousands of people in our state of Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The free recommended preventive services range from mammograms to colonoscopies to flu shots to cholesterol and blood pressure screenings. These free services save lives.” “Preventing illnesses before they become serious and more costly to treat helps Americans of all ages stay healthier,” Congressman Cuellar added. “No longer will these Americans have to choose between paying for preventive care and groceries.” Helping middle class families and American businesses take advantage of the benefits of the health care law like free preventive care should be a top priority for lawmakers in Washington. Democrats and Republicans must work together to find a common sense ways to make any needed changes to the Affordable Care Act.
12.09.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced the completion of two projects funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) in Rio Grande City and Roma. In Roma, Congressman Cuellar spoke at the unveiling of new equipment purchased for Riverview Supermarket through the USDA Rural Energy for America Loan. In Rio Grande City, spoke at a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Casa de Adobe Restaurant, constructed through the USDA Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan. Congressman Henry Cuellar presents a certificate to Riverview Supermarket in Roma, Texas, congratulating the owners for their successful renovation with the use of USDA funds. “It is very important to me that business owners in the 28th District of Texas are aware of the federal resources that are available to them,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I congratulate the owners of Riverview Supermarkets and Casa de Adobe for their ingenuity in utilizing every resource at their disposal to expand their businesses and contribute to their communities. I would also like to thank USDA Rural Development for, once again, making a difference in a real, tangible way for residents in Starr County. I look forward to seeing the businesses in our communities continue to flourish.” Congressman Henry Cuellar participates in the ribbon cutting of Casa de Adobe restaurant in Rio Grande City, purchase and constructed with funds from USDA. “These funding announcements represent the diversity of assistance USDA Rural Development can provide communities to increase the quality of life for residents and enhance business development in rural Texas,” said Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin. “From providing funding for energy efficient equipment for a local supermarket, to supplying needed support for construction and operation of a new restaurant, Rural Development is pleased to assist these recipients with projects that will benefit the entire community.” Congresista Cuellar y Paco Valentín (Director de Desarrollo Rural de USDA) anuncian fondos para Roma y Rio Grande City Rio Grande City, Texas – El lunes, 9 de Diciembre, el Congresista Henry Cuellar anunciará la finalización de proyectos financiados por el Departamento de Agricultura de EE.UU. (USDA), en Rio Grande City y Roma. En Roma, el Congresista Cuellar hablará sobre la inauguración del equipo nuevo del Supermercado de Riverview que recibió fondos del Rural Energy for America Loan de USDA. En Rio Grande City, el Congresista dará palabras en la apertura del restaurante Casa de Adobe, el cual fue construido por fondos del Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan de USDA. “Es muy importante para mí que los propietarios de pequeñas empresas en el distrito 28 de Texas se den cuenta de los recursos federales que están disponibles para ellos,” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Felicito a los dueños de supermercados de Riverview y Casa de Adobe por su ingenio en la utilización de todos los recursos a su disposición para ampliar sus negocios y contribuir a sus comunidades. Además, me gustaría dar las gracias al Desarrollo Rural de USDA por sus contribuciones importantes y tangibles a la vida de los residentes en el Condado de Starr. Espero poder ver a los negocios en nuestras comunidades seguir creciendo.” "Los anuncios de estos fondos representan la diversidad de la asistencia que el Desarrollo Rural del USDA puede proporcionar a las comunidades para aumentar la calidad de vida de los residentes y mejorar el desarrollo empresarial en las zonas rurales de Texas", dijo el Director de Desarrollo Rural, Paco Valentín. “El Desarrollo Rural de USDA se complace en ayudar a recipientes con proyectos que beneficiarán a toda la comunidad si sea con fondos para equipo eficiente en un supermercado local o apoyo necesario para la construcción y operación de un nuevo restaurante.”
12.09.2013	On Saturday, December 7h, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) hosted a Health Insurance Marketplace Workshop for residents of Starr County. The event was open and free to the public and provided presentations on the new Health Insurance Marketplaces. Over 120 participants had the opportunity to enroll in the new Health Insurance Marketplace, with assistance provided by local, certified organizations. “The new health insurance marketplace provides an opportunity for Texans to take personal responsibility for the costs of their health care and gain universal access to quality and affordable health insurance,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The District I represent includes some of the counties that have the highest rate of uninsured Americans in the country – in Starr County alone, 34.6 percent of residents do not have health insurance (source: Center for American Progress). This is why I have partnered with local agencies and organizations to host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop in Rio Grande City to raise awareness and educate the public.” Congresista Cuellar lleva a cabo taller comunitario sobre nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos para condado de Starr Rio Grande City, Texas- El sábado 7 de diciembre, la oficina del Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) ofreció un taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos para el condado de Starr. La oficina del congresista coordinó este taller en conjunto con organizaciones de la comunidad y agencias. El taller fue gratis y abierto al público. Más de 120 participantes tenían la oportunidad de inscribirse en el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos, con la asistencia de algunas organizaciones certificadas y locales. “El nuevo mercado de seguros médicos permitirá al pueblo tejano tomar responsabilidad sobre los costos de cuidados médicos y proveer acceso universal a seguro medico de calidad alto y precio razonable,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “El distrito que yo represento incluye condados con los índices más altos de ciudadanos sin seguro médico en el país- 34.6 por ciento de los residentes del condado de Starr no tiene seguro médico (fuente: Center for American Progress). Por esta razón, en asociación con agencias locales y organizaciones, vamos a presentar este taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos así poder educar al público sobre este importante tema.”
12.07.2013	On Saturday, December 7th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) provided remarks at the 72nd Annual Pearl Harbor Commemoration in Laredo, Texas. The event is dedicated to honor World War II veterans for their service and valor. A copy of his remarks may be found below · “But always will our whole nation remember the character of the onslaught against us. No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory” – President Franklin Delano Roosevelt on the day after attack, 12/08/1941 · Today we remember a day that, as President Franklin Delano Roosevelt famously said, will forever live in infamy · 72 years ago today, the United States suffered a massive and unprovoked attack on our own soil · 2,400 Americans were killed, over 1,200 were wounded, and188 warships were destroyed · Today, we commemorate a day that will never be forgotten… · …and pay tribute to the families who lost a loved one 72 years ago · Here in Laredo, we are proud to have played a part in the heroic actions of those were present at Pearl Harbor · Over 2,000 men and women from Laredo served our country during World War II – only 50-70 remain with us today · Laredoans served in all parts of the war effort, in bombs, tanks, ships, on the ground, and in leadership positions · 200 were killed in action and 50 percent came home wounded · On the day of the Pearl Harbor attack, 4 native Laredoans were present on the ground – their heroic actions are an honor to the City and today we remember them · In today’s post-9/11 world, we are unfortunately all too familiar with unexpected attacks and their tragic consequences · But like on 9/11, the attack on Pearl Harbor showed the true nature of the American spirit and the Laredo spirit – indomitable · Like the troops who serve in Iraq or Afghanistan, the firefighters and policemen who rushed into the Towers on 9/11, our World War II veterans demonstrated courage and resolve in defending their fellow countrymen · There are only a few thousand Pearl Harbor survivors still alive – we continue to lose members of the Greatest Generation · However, we will never forget the example they set for us of heroism, of bravery, and of selfless service to America · Thank you to our veterans and God Bless
12.05.2013	On Thursday, December 5th, Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement calling for an end to the damaging, 10 year sequester to boost economic growth and create jobs in 2014: “I call on my colleagues Chairman Ryan and Chairwoman Murray to focus on ending the damaging sequester cuts as part of their discussions. The sequester has had an immensely harmful impact on our economy, stunting growth, cutting key services to veterans and seniors, and blocking the creation of jobs. We must certainly find ways to balance the federal budget and reduce wasteful spending. However, I believe that we cannot balance the budget on the backs of students, seniors, and the middle class. Democrats and Republicans must put all options on the table and start to make some of the tough choices. Even if we cannot reach a grand bargain on spending before the continuing resolution expires in February, we cannot allow the country to continue to suffer from the irrational cuts of the sequester. During the first year of the sequester, federal agencies had the flexibility to move around funds and cover gaps in revenue. During the second year, they will not have that option and the cuts will hurt more. A few key negative impacts include: · A 1.2 percent cut to GDP in 2014 and loss of 4,400 jobs a day or 1.6 million jobs over the year · Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) funding cut would serve 214,000 fewer eligible applicants than 2013. · 22% overall cut education programs would result in 240,000 fewer children with access to Head Start and Early Head Start · Continues steady decline in Army Corps of Engineers construction on water resource infrastructure, despite $60 billion backlog of authorized projects. · The sequester level puts economic growth at risk by requiring a defense cut of $47.75 billion – the armed forces would lose readiness capability due to fiscal uncertainty and funds for operations & maintenance, procurement, research & development, and health care for injured service members would be cut In my home state of Texas, the second year of the sequester will have an even more damaging effect. Sequester cuts would almost certainly cause furloughs for federal workers across the State of Texas, including border patrol agents, civilian employees and contractors in bases across the state, and others. These furloughs could cut the federal services that Texans receive, cut paychecks of Texas federal workers, and cause delays at land ports of entry would slow down trade and commerce and negatively affect Texas businesses. My hometown of Laredo is the largest inland port in the country, handling 45 percent of U.S. trade with Mexico. Further delays at the border because of furloughs are unacceptable and harmful to trade and our relationship with our southern neighbor.”
12.05.2013	On Thursday, December 5th, Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) released a statement on the passing of anti-apartheid icon, Nelson Mandela. “Today the world lost a hero of the anti-apartheid movement and a model for the pursuit of justice and peace worldwide,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Nelson Mandela’s dignity in the face of fear and discrimination created a path for all of us in our quest to build a fairer world. He inspired the people of South Africa to move beyond one of the most painful period of their history and embrace equal rights for all of their citizens. Mandela leaves a legacy of striving to find the good and the promise in all people and I hope we will see the likes of such a leader again. I send my condolences to the family of Mandela and to the people of South Africa.”
12.05.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released figures highlighting the number of individuals in Texas who have gained access to free preventive care like recommended cancer screenings and immunizations because of the Affordable Care Act – including both individuals with private insurance and seniors enrolled in Medicare. Due to ACA, 5,198,000 Texans received expanded coverage of one or more preventive services in 2011 and 2012, according to an analysis by HHS. Furthermore, due to ACA, 2,266,929 Medicare enrollees in Texas received one or more free preventive services in 2012, according to HHS. “The Affordable Care Act is allowing access to free recommended preventive services for hundreds of thousands of people in our state of Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The free recommended preventive services range from mammograms to colonoscopies to flu shots to cholesterol and blood pressure screenings. These free services save lives.” “Preventing illnesses before they become serious and more costly to treat helps Americans of all ages stay healthier,” Congressman Cuellar added. “No longer will these Americans have to choose between paying for preventive care and groceries.” Helping middle class families and American businesses take advantage of the benefits of the health care law like free preventive care should be a top priority for lawmakers in Washington. Democrats and Republicans must work together to find a common sense ways to make any needed changes to the Affordable Care Act.
12.05.2013	On Thursday, December 5th, Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) released a statement on the passing of anti-apartheid icon, Nelson Mandela. “Today the world lost a hero of the anti-apartheid movement and a model for the pursuit of justice and peace worldwide,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Nelson Mandela’s dignity in the face of fear and discrimination created a path for all of us in our quest to build a fairer world. He inspired the people of South Africa to move beyond one of the most painful period of their history and embrace equal rights for all of their citizens. Mandela leaves a legacy of striving to find the good and the promise in all people and I hope we will see the likes of such a leader again. I send my condolences to the family of Mandela and to the people of South Africa.”
12.02.2013	On Monday, December 2nd, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced the release of a new report by the Centers for Medicare and Medicare demonstrating how Affordable Care Act has reduced costs of prescription drug costs for seniors in the State of Texas. In Texas, 233,114 seniors and people with disabilities saved $201,876,665, or an average of $866 per beneficiary, during the first 10 months of 2013. Overall, seniors in Texas have saved $551,694,997 since passage of the Affordable Care Act. At the same time, these seniors will be free to use more of their Social Security benefit cost of living adjustment on what they choose because the Medicare Part B premium will not increase in 2014. “Seniors across the State of Texas rely on Medicare to cover their basic healthcare needs,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar, “and I am pleased to see that their costs have decreased during 2013. Prescription drug costs can be a huge burden on seniors, especially those seniors living under the Medicare Part D donut hole that fails to cover costs that are not catastrophic. I encourage seniors and their families to take full advantage of these new benefits and educate themselves about their update coverage. My office stands ready to help so please reach out should you need any assistance.” News on the continued savings on prescription drugs comes on the heels of new information showing historically low levels of growth in Medicare spending. For example: CMS recently announced that the Medicare’s Part B premium will not increase in 2014, and that the last five years have been among the slowest periods of average Part B premium growth in the program’s history. The Part B deductible will also not increase, having decreased in 2013. The Part B premium and deductible for 2014 are 15 percent below what was projected in 2010, the year the Affordable Care Act was enacted. Also as a result of the Affordable Care Act, Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug Plans remain stable and strong. Earlier this year, CMS announced that the average Medicare Advantage (MA) premium in 2014 is projected to be $32.60. CMS also estimated that the average basic Medicare prescription drug plan premium in 2014 is projected to be $31 per month, holding steady for 4 years in a row. The deductible for standard Part D plans will decline by $15 in 2014, to $310. Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, average MA premiums are down by 9.8 percent. - Since enactment of the Affordable Care Act, the life of the Medicare trust fund has been extended by nearly ten years, till 2026. For more information about Medicare’s prescription drug benefits, please visit: http://www.medicare.gov/part-d/. The Annual Open Enrollment period for health and drug plans began on October 15 and ends on December 7. For more information on Medicare Open Enrollment and to compare benefits and prices of 2014 Medicare health and drug plans, please visit: http://www.cms.gov/Center/Special-Topic/Open-Enrollment-Center.html.
12.02.2013	On Thursday, December 12th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop for residents of Zapata County. The event is open and free to the public and will provide presentations on the new Health Insurance Marketplaces. Participants will have the opportunity to enroll in the new Health Insurance Marketplace with assistance provided by local, certified organizations. “The new health insurance marketplace provides an opportunity for Texans to take personal responsibility for the costs of their health care and gain universal access to quality and affordable health insurance,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The District I represent includes some of the counties that have the highest rate of uninsured Americans in the country – in Zapata County alone, 35.3 percent of residents do not have health insurance. This is why I have partnered with local agencies and organizations to host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop in Zapata to raise awareness and educate the public.” For those tweeting during the event, use the hashtag #GetCoveredZapata and tag @RepCuellar. WHAT: Zapata County Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Enroll America Doctors Hospital of Laredo South Texas Development Council Zapata County ISD Cognosante Zapata County WHEN: Thursday, December 12th at 6:00pm (Open enrollment in computer labs) English Sessions: 6:30pm 7:50pm Spanish Sessions: 7:10pm 8:30pm WHERE: Zapata County Technical Advanced Education Center (ZTAC) 605 N. Hwy 83 Zapata, Texas 78076 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- El jueves 12 de diciembre, la oficina del Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) ofrecerá un taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos para el condado de Zapata. La oficina del congresista coordinará este taller en conjunto con organizaciones de la comunidad y agencias. El taller es gratis y abierto al público. Los participantes tendrán la oportunidad de inscribirse en el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos, con la asistencia de algunas organizaciones certificadas y locales. “El nuevo mercado de seguros médicos permitirá al pueblo tejano tomar responsabilidad sobre los costos de cuidados médicos y proveer acceso universal a seguro medico de calidad alto y precio razonable,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “El distrito que yo represento incluye condados con los índices más altos de ciudadanos sin seguro médico en el país- 35.3 por ciento de los residentes del condado de Zapata no tiene seguro médico. Por esta razón, en asociación con agencias locales y organizaciones, vamos a presentar este taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos así poder educar al público sobre este importante tema.” Si está usando Twitter durante el evento, utilize el hashtag #EnrollStarr el tag @RepCuellar. WHAT: Zapata County Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Enroll America Doctors Hospital of Laredo South Texas Development Council Zapata County ISD Cognosante Zapata County WHEN: Thursday, December 12th at 6:00pm (Open enrollment in computer labs) English Sessions: 6:30pm 7:50pm Spanish Sessions: 7:10pm 8:30pm WHERE: Zapata County Technical Advanced Education Center (ZTAC) 605 N. Hwy 83 Zapata, Texas 78076
12.02.2013	On Monday, November 9th, Congressman Henry Cuellar will announce the completion of two projects funded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) in Rio Grande City and Roma. In Roma, Congressman Cuellar will speak at the unveiling of new equipment purchased for Riverview Supermarket through the USDA Rural Energy for America Loan. In Rio Grande City, he will speak at a ribbon cutting ceremony for the Casa de Adobe Restaurant, constructed through the USDA Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan. “It is very important to me that business owners in the 28th District of Texas are aware of the federal resources that are available to them,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I congratulate the owners of Riverview Supermarkets and Casa de Adobe for their ingenuity in utilizing every resource at their disposal to expand their businesses and contribute to their communities. I would also like to thank USDA Rural Development for, once again, making a difference in a real, tangible way for residents in Starr County. I look forward to seeing the businesses in our communities continue to flourish.” What: Unveiling of Updates at Riverview Supermarket in Roma & Ribbon Cutting Ceremony at Casa de Adobe Restaurant in Rio Grande City Who: Participants will include: Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin Starr County Judge Eloy Very State Representative Ryan Guillen Rio Grande City Mayor Ruben Villarreal When: Monday, December 9 10:00 am CT – Rural Energy for American Loan Unveiling at Riverview Supermarket 11:00 am CT – Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan Ribbon Ceremony at Casa de Adobe Where: 10:00 am CT – 776 East Grant Street, Roma, Texas 78584 11:00 am CT – 101 N. Avasolo Ave, Rio Grande City, Texas 78582
11.25.2013	On Monday, November 25th, Congressman Henry Cuellar will host a service academy informational session open to high school students and their parents. The session will include information about the nation’s prestigious service academies and the Congressional nomination process required to apply. A Naval Academy representative will be on hand to provide perspective and suggestions on the application process. “Our country will always need new young leaders to step forward and answer the call to serve,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I am hosting this event to help young people prepare for the extensive and highly competitive application process to attend a U.S. service academy. Service academies offer outstanding educational opportunities and provide excellent skill sets for a military career. I am grateful for Naval Academy Midshipman Gavyn Gonzales, who will be joining us to provide a presentation and answer questions. I encourage all interested students to attend and learn how we can help them.” What: Service Academy Day with Congressman Henry Cuellar When: Monday, November 25 at 1:00PM CT Where: Texas Roadhouse – 5722 San Bernardo Laredo, Texas 78041 Who: Pete Arguello, Service Academy Liaison for Congressman Cuellar’s Office and Naval Academy Representative
11.22.2013	On Saturday, December 7h, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a Health Insurance Marketplace Workshop for residents of Starr County. The event is open and free to the public and will provide presentations on the new Health Insurance Marketplaces. Participants will have the opportunity to enroll in the new Health Insurance Marketplace, with assistance provided by local, certified organizations. “The new health insurance marketplace provides an opportunity for Texans to take personal responsibility for the costs of their health care and gain universal access to quality and affordable health insurance,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The District I represent includes some of the counties that have the highest rate of uninsured Americans in the country – in Starr County alone, 34.6 percent of residents do not have health insurance (source: Center for American Progress). This is why I have partnered with local agencies and organizations to host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop in Rio Grande City to raise awareness and educate the public.” For those tweeting during the event, use the hashtag #EnrollStarr and tag @RepCuellar. WHAT: Starr County Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Migrant Health Promotion Nuestra Clinica del Valle Senior Community Outreach Services, Inc. Valley Baptists Health System AARP Cognosante Enroll America Young Invincibles Starr County Starr County Industrial Foundation South Texas College WHEN: Saturday, December 7th English Sessions: 10:00am 11:20am 1:30pm 2:50pm Spanish Sessions: 10:40am 12:00pm 2:10pm 3:30pm WHERE: South Texas College -General Academics Building E 142 N FM 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- El Congresista Cuellar invita al condado de Starr a participar en taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos Rio Grande City, Texas- El sábado 7 de diciembre, la oficina del Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) ofrecerá un taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos para el condado de Starr. La oficina del congresista coordinará este taller en conjunto con organizaciones de la comunidad y agencias. El taller es gratis y abierto al público. Los participantes tendrán la oportunidad de inscribirse en el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos, con la asistencia de algunas organizaciones certificadas y locales. “El nuevo mercado de seguros médicos permitirá al pueblo tejano tomar responsabilidad sobre los costos de cuidados médicos y proveer acceso universal a seguro medico de calidad alto y precio razonable,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “El distrito que yo represento incluye condados con los índices más altos de ciudadanos sin seguro médico en el país- 34.6 por ciento de los residentes del condado de Starr no tiene seguro médico (fuente: Center for American Progress). Por esta razón, en asociación con agencias locales y organizaciones, vamos a presentar este taller comunitario sobre el nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos así poder educar al público sobre este importante tema.” Si está usando Twitter durante el evento, utilize el hashtag #EnrollStarr el tag @RepCuellar. EVENTO: Starr County Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar PARTICIPANTES: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Migrant Health Promotion Nuestra Clinica del Valle Senior Community Outreach Services, Inc. Valley Baptists Health System AARP Cognosante Enroll America Young Invincibles Starr County Starr County Industrial Foundation South Texas College FECHA: Saturday, December 7th English Sessions: 10:00am 11:20am 1:30pm 2:50pm Spanish Sessions: 10:40am 12:00pm 2:10pm 3:30pm UBICACIÓN: South Texas College -General Academics Building E 142 N FM 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582
11.22.2013	On Thursday, December 5th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a Health Insurance Marketplace Workshop for residents of Wilson County. The event is open and free to the public and will provide presentations on the new Health Insurance Marketplaces. Participants will have the opportunity to enroll in the new Health Insurance Marketplace with assistance provided by local, certified organizations. “The new health insurance marketplace provides an opportunity for Texans to take personal responsibility for the costs of their health care and gain universal access to quality and affordable health insurance,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “The District I represent includes some of the counties that have the highest rate of uninsured Americans in the country – in Wilson County alone, 21 percent of residents do not have health insurance. This is why I have partnered with local agencies and organizations to host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Workshop in Floresville to raise awareness and educate the public.” For those tweeting during the event, use the hashtag #GetCoveredWilson and tag @RepCuellar. WHAT: Wilson County Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Cognosante Enroll America Young Invincibles Alamo Area Council of Governments (AACOG) Wilson Community Health Center Texas Organizing Project WHEN: Thursday, December 5th at 6:00pm WHERE: Alamo Colleges Floresville Center 1813 Tiger Lane, Floresville, Texas 78114
11.14.2013	– Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the recently issued rules by the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury to ensure equal treatment for Americans in need of mental health or substance use disorder treatment: “I applaud the recent announcement of new rules for the treatment of mental health and substance abuse disorders,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I have long supported measures to ensure our health care system treats the entire person, body and mind included. I voted in support of the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act to prevent insurance companies from limiting access to mental health and substance use disorder care. These rules help expand those protections to millions of Americans. This announcement signifies a victory in the fight for equal health care treatment and I will continue to work towards breaking down barriers that stand in the way of treatment and recovery services for Americans.” The newly issued rules implement the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act, which requires health insurance to cover both mental and physical health equally and no longer allows insurance companies to limit the number of hospital days or outpatient treatment sessions, or assign higher co-payments or deductibles for those in need of psychological services. The announcement is available on the Department of Health and Human Services website: http://www.hhs.gov/news/press/2013pres/11/20131108b.html
11.11.2013	On Wednesday, November 13th, Congressman Henry Cuellar will host a Telephone Town Hall for residents of the 28th District to answer questions about the new Health Insurance Marketplace and provide resources to aid taxpayers in the application process. “One of my top priorities is to remain accessible and provide opportunities to speak directly to taxpayers across the 28th District of Texas,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “This Telephone Town Hall will provide an opportunity to ask questions about the new health insurance marketplace and I am grateful to Marjorie McColl Petty, Region VI Director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for five states, including the entire State of Texas, for joining us to share her expertise. I look forward to continuing meeting with residents across 28th District on a regular basis.” Due to high call volume, not all questions will be answered. However, there will be an option to leave a voice message to the Congressman or contact any of his offices directly. **Media may listen in to the call but questions will be reserved for constituents. Please contact Miranda Margowsky, Press Secretary, to coordinate any media requests.** What: Telephone Town Hall Who: Participants will include: · Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) · Marjorie McColl Petty, Region VI Director of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (for Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, and Oklahoma) When: Wednesday, November 13th at 5:45 PM CT Dial in: 877-229-8493 Pin #: 17963
11.08.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the recent move by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to test military-owned equipment as part of border security operations in the Rio Grande Valley: “As a Member of Congress representing a district along the U.S.–Mexico border, I applaud the work of U.S. Customs and Border Protection in creatively allocating funds for border security,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I have consistently advocated for law enforcement and border security agencies to use smart border technology to address the 21st century problem of securing our nation’s boundaries. By reusing military equipment along the southern border, Customs and Border Protection saves valuable federal funds and improves border security for Valley residents and people across the country.” Aerostats are large, balloon-like devices that contain sensor equipment allowing operators to observe activity along the border that could pose a threat. The military-owned equipment provides a larger viewing area than the currently employed devices. According to Customs and Border Protection, the equipment will be used in Peñitas, on the Starr/Hidalgo county line, and in Brooks County near Falfurrias.
11.08.2013	El jueves, 7 de noviembre, el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) anunció el lanzamiento de información sobre la ley del cuidado de salud a bajo precio en español: “La ley del cuidado de salud a bajo precio permitirá a el pueblo americano poder tomar responsabilidad de los costos de cuidados médicos y proveer acceso universal a seguro médico de calidad alta a un precio razonable,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “El distrito que yo represento incluye condados con los índices más altos de ciudadanos sin seguro médico en el país. Por esta razón, es importante que los ciudadanos tengan la información disponible sobre la ley del cuidado de salud a bajo precio. Estos folletos contienen información sobre el beneficio de la ley del cuidado de salud a bajo precio para mujeres, ciudadanos de la mayor edad, pequeñas empresas, jóvenes, y niños. La información ayudará a que la gente se relacione con las maneras de poder ahorrar y entender el nuevo mercado de seguros médicos. · LO QUE NECESITA SABER SOBRE LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD · PARA PEQUEÑAS EMPRESAS: LO QUE NECESITA SABER SOBRE LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD · BENEFICIOS DE LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD PARA LAS PEQUEÑAS EMPRESAS · BENEFICIOS DE LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD PARA MUJERES · COMO LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD AYUDA A PERSONAS DE EDAD AVANZADA Y MEJORA MEDICARE · BENEFICIOS DE LA LEY DE SALUD PARA NINOS Y JOVENES ADULTOS · LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD ESTA GENERANDO AHORROS PARA LOS CONSUMIDORES · LA LEY DE CUIDADO DE SALUD ESTA CONTENDIENDO LOS COSTOS Fuente: Departamento de Salud y Servicios Humanos y la Casa Blanca El MERCADO DE SEGUROS MÉDICOS Si usted paga por su propia cobertura o está actualmente sin seguro médico, la siguiente información acerca del nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos será importante. El nuevo Mercado de Seguros Médicos es un mercado por internet donde los compradores pueden elegir entre numerosos planes de seguro médico privado de buena calidad y donde hay créditos fiscales ampliamente disponibles para que el plan que usted elija sea asequible. Fechas: 1 de octubre de 2013 – Inscripción en el Mercado comienza 1 de enero de 2014 – Cobertura médica en el Mercado comienza Sinopsis de lo que usted debe saber: La Opción de Varios Planes de Seguro Medico de Buena Calidad: · Cada plan de seguro médico en el Mercado ofrecerá una cobertura integral, incluyendo medicamentos, visitas con su doctor, hospitalización, etc. · El mercado le permitirá comparar fácilmente sus opciones de seguro según el precio, tipo de cobertura, calidad y otras características importantes para usted. · Toda la información sobre los planes de salud debe estar en lenguaje fácil de entender y sin letra pequeña. · Se requiere que cada plan de seguro médico en el Mercado incluye normas básicas de calidad y acceso a una serie de médicos y clínicos. · Se requiere información clara sobre las primas del plan, los deducibles y gastos por cuenta propia ANTES de decidirse a inscribirse, para que sepa lo que está comprando. · Cada plan de seguro médico en el Mercado ofrecerá cobertura gratuita a los servicios de prevención. Medidas de Protección al Consumidor Que Se Exige De Los Planes: · Se prohíbe la discriminación por condiciones preexistentes. · No hay límites anuales o de por vida. · Un límite a los gastos directos de su bolsillo (“out-of-pocket”). · Las mujeres pagan las mismas tasas que los hombres. Créditos Fiscales Para Hacer Que Sus Primas Más Asequibles: · Más del 80 por ciento de los que compran cobertura en el Mercado tendrán derecho a créditos fiscales, que reducirán de manera significativa lo que realmente paga en primas. · Los créditos fiscales se proporcionan de inmediato y directamente al plan de salud que usted ha elegido – inmediatamente reduciendo sus pagos mensuales. · Los créditos fiscales están disponibles en una escala proporcional para las personas con ingresos entre 100% y 400% del nivel de pobreza (entre $ 23.500 a $ 94.200 para una familia de cuatro en 2013). Asistencia al Consumidor y Ayuda con Inscripción: · Usted podrá solicitar su inscripción en el Mercado de muchas maneras: o Por internet; o Por teléfono; o Por correo electrónico, o o En persona. · Asistencia estará disponible en el Mercado para ayudarle en elegir e inscribirse en el mejor plan privado para usted, incluyendo: o Un centro nacional de llamadas al número gratuito o Un sitio web con herramientas para comparar planes y o Guías, como las organizaciones comunitarias, que le darán asistencia imparcial y objetiva para evaluar el plan que mejor se adapte a sus necesidades. Para PequeÑas EmPRESAS: Lo que necesita saber sobre la ley de cuidado de salud La Ley de Cuidado de Salud incluye disposiciones vitales que le dan a usted y a otros propietarios de pequeñas empresas nuevas opciones para proporcionar cobertura médica asequible de buena calidad a sus empleados, si lo desea. Si usted es dueño de un negocio con menos de 50 empleados – como lo son 96 por ciento de las empresas en los Estados Unidos - no tendrá NINGÚN requisito como empleador de proveer cobertura, cuando el requisito entra en vigencia en el 2015. Es decir, no enfrentará posibles sanciones por no ofrecer una cobertura asequible a sus empleados. Las disposiciones de la ley de salud serán una mejora con respecto al mercado actual donde, hasta el momento, las pequeñas empresas han tenido muchos problemas en obtener un seguro asequible. Por ejemplo, en la actualidad las pequeñas empresas pagan 18 por ciento más en primas que las grandes empresas por los mismos beneficios. Además, hoy en día, las primas para una pequeña empresa pueden aumentar exponencialmente tan solo porque a uno de sus empleados le da cáncer o sufre un grave ataque al corazón. La forma en que la ley de cuidado de salud le afecta como propietario de un negocio dependerá de la cantidad de empleados que tenga. A continuación se presenta una sinopsis. A partir de 2014, para los negocios con menos de 25 empleados: · No hay requisito de cobertura para el empleador. · Hay un crédito fiscal de escala proporcional para ayudarle a ofrecer una cobertura de seguro médico a sus empleados, si usted tiene salarios medios anuales de menos de $50,000. El crédito tiene un valor de hasta 50 por ciento de los costos de las primas de su pequeña empresa. · Existe un Programa de Opciones de Salud para Pequeñas Empresas (SHOP en ingles) en cada estado – un mercado de seguros médicos para las pequeñas empresas – para hacer el seguro médico más asequible y accesible a las pequeñas empresas con 50 empleados o menos. · Con los SHOPs, al tener la posibilidad de juntar sus recursos con otras empresas, usted y otras pequeñas empresas ahora tendrán acceso a los mismos tipos de coberturas asequibles de buena calidad que sólo las grandes empresas tienen hoy en día. · Los SHOPs reducirán las primas para usted y otras pequeñas empresas a través de menores costos administrativos, una mayor competencia entre las aseguradoras, una mayor transparencia de los costos y una mejor distribución de los riesgos. A partir de 2014, para los negocios con 25 a 49 trabajadores: · No hay requisito de cobertura para el empleador. · Hay un SHOP en cada estado – un mercado de seguros médicos para las pequeñas empresas – para hacer el seguro médico más asequible y accesible a las pequeñas empresas con 50 empleados o menos. · Con los SHOPs, al tener la posibilidad de juntar sus recursos con otras empresas, usted y otras pequeñas empresas ahora tendrán acceso a los mismos tipos de coberturas asequibles de buena calidad que sólo las grandes empresas tienen hoy en día. · Los SHOPs reducirán las primas para usted y otras pequeñas empresas a través de menores costos administrativos, una mayor competencia entre las aseguradoras, una mayor transparencia de los costos y una mejor distribución de los riesgos. A partir de 2015, para los negocios con 50 o más empleados: · Existe un requisito de cobertura para las empresas con 50 o más empleados. Bajo el requisito, las empresas con 50 o más empleados que no ofrecen cobertura médica asequible y tienen al menos un empleado de tiempo completo que recibe un crédito fiscal de primas en los nuevos mercados tendrán que pagar una multa. · Sin embargo, la gran mayoría de estas empresas ya ofrecen cobertura médica voluntariamente. Actualmente, el 94 por ciento de las empresas con 50 a 199 empleados ya ofrecen cobertura a sus empleados, así como el 98 por ciento de las empresas con 200 empleados o más. · A partir de 2016, los SHOPs estarán abiertos a empresas con 100 empleados o menos. BENEFICIOS DE LA LEY de cuidado DE SALUD PARA las PEQUEÑaS Empresas · Proporciona a las pequeñas empresas acceso a los mismos planes de salud asequibles que anteriormente estaban disponibles solamente para las grandes empresas. La ley de salud establece mercados estatales de intercambio conocidos como SHOP (por sus siglas en inglés) donde a partir de 2014, las pequeñas empresas y sus empleados podrán comprar cobertura asequible. Los dueños y empleados de pequeñas empresas podrán formar un fondo común con su poder adquisitivo y comparar los diferentes planes. · Proporciona a las pequeñas empresas acceso a los planes de salud de buena calidad. A partir de 2014, los planes asequibles en los mercados SHOP tendrán un mínimo de beneficios garantizados – para evitar sorpresas y brechas de cobertura que a veces enfrentan aquellos que no tienen el poder adquisitivo de un grupo largo. · Garantiza ciertos derechos vitales para los pacientes, que son especialmente importantes para las pequeñas empresas que frecuentemente sólo han tenido acceso a planes de salud con grandes brechas en la cobertura. Por ejemplo, la ley de salud prohíbe a las compañías de seguro médico (1) poner límites de por vida en su cobertura, (2) establecer límites anuales restrictivos sobre su cobertura, y (3) negar cobertura a niños con condiciones preexistentes. · Provee créditos fiscales a las pequeñas empresas para ayudarles a ofrecer cobertura de seguro médico a sus empleados – si deciden hacerlo. Los créditos fiscales cubren hasta el 35 por ciento del costo de la cobertura, para las empresas con 25 empleados o menos. A partir de 2014, estos créditos fiscales comenzarán a cubrir hasta el 50 por ciento del costo de la cobertura. En 2011, 360,000 pequeños empresarios utilizaron el crédito conocido como ‘Small Business Health Care Tax Credit’ para ayudarles a pagar por seguro médico para 2 millones de trabajadores. · El Presidente ha propuesto mejorar el crédito fiscal. Si se aprueba, el crédito fiscal bajo la propuesta del Presidente beneficiaría a casi medio millón de pequeñas empresas que ofrecen seguro a 4 millones de trabajadores. La propuesta permite a las pequeñas empresas con un máximo de 50 empleados, en lugar de 25, calificar para el crédito fiscal y también adopta un programa de descontinuación más generoso. Beneficios de la ley de cuidado de salud para mujeres · Prohíbe que las compañías de seguro médico nieguen a mujeres la cobertura para cuidado de maternidad. · Mejora el cuidado de salud a millones de mujeres adultas con condiciones crónicas, proporcionando iniciativas bajo Medicare. · Le asegura y garantiza a casi 30 millones de mujeres con seguro médico privado el privilegio a muchos servicios preventivos como las mamográficas, los exámenes de cáncer, y las inmunizaciones. · Asegura que la cobertura gratis, a partir de agosto 2012, incluya más servicios preventivos de mujeres, como visitas y chequeos completos de salud de mujeres, y detección de diabetes. · A partir de enero 2014, asegura que ser mujer jamás será tratado como ‘condición preexistente.’ A compañías de seguro médico se les prohibirá negar la cobertura a personas con ‘condiciones preexistentes.’ Hoy en día, a las mujeres se les niega cobertura o pagan más por ‘condiciones preexistentes’ como cáncer de mama, embarazos, cirugías cesárea (C-section por su inglés) – o simplemente por ser víctimas de violencia doméstica. · A partir de enero 2014, termina la práctica común conocida como ‘gender rating,’ donde las mujeres pagan más por las primas en comparación a los hombres por el mismo seguro médico. Según un estudio, mujeres pagan 48 por ciento más que los hombres por el costo de las primas. · A partir de enero 2014, asegura que las 8.7 millones de mujeres quienes actualmente compran seguro médico individual ganarían cobertura para servicios de maternidad. · A partir de enero 2014, le ofrece a las mujeres mejor acceso a un seguro médico económico para mujeres. Un estimado de 18.6 millones de mujeres sin seguro médico tendrán nuevas oportunidades por medio del Mercado de Seguros Médicos. como la ley de Cuidado de salud ayuda a personas de edad avanzada y mejora medicare · Reduce el precio de medicinas de receta para personas de edad avanzada. Desde la promulga de la Ley de Cuidado de Salud, más de 7.1 millones de personas de edad avanzada en la brecha conocida como ‘donut hole’ de la Parte D de Medicare han ahorrado más de $8.3 mil millones en medicinas de receta, o un promedio en ahorros de $1,061 por persona. Para el año 2020, esta brecha ya no existirá. Se estima que adultos mayores ahorraran un promedio de más de $18.000 en sus medicinas de receta hasta el 2022. · Ofrece servicios vitales gratis de cuidado preventivo como monogramas. Antes de la reforma, servicios tenían un precio tan alto como $160. En el año 2012, 34.1 millones de personas de edad avanzada recibieron servicios preventivos gratis. En los primeros seis meses del año 2013, 16.5 millones de personas de edad avanzada han recibido servicios gratis. · Ofrece una visita anual de bienestar gratis bajo Medicare. Más de 4.4 millones de personas de edad avanzada han recibido una visita anual de bienestar gratis bajo Medicare. · Ofrece ahorros adicionales para personas de edad avanzada, incluyendo primas estables y bajas y también un deducible más bajo. Las primas de la Parte B de Medicare han permanecido igual o han reducido por los últimos tres años. Adicionalmente, en el año 2013, el promedio de la prima de personas inscritas en “Medicare Advantage” es 10 por ciento menos que en el año 2010. Además, el deducible de la Parte B de Medicare será $15 menos en el año 2014 que el deducible del año 2011. · Fortalece Medicare y extiende la solvencia del fondo conocido como ‘Medicare Trust Fund’ por casi una década. Las reformas de la ley eliminan lo innecesario del sistema de salud, haciéndolo más eficiente sin reducir los beneficios. Ofrece nuevas herramientas y autoridades para prevenir el fraude en Medicare. Durante los últimos cuatro años, grupos en contra el fraude del Departamento de Servicios Humanos (HHS, por sus siglas en inglés) y Departamento de Justicia, recuperaron casi $15 mil millones en pagos fraudes de Medicare de parte de los contribuyentes, duplicando la cantidad recuperada durante los cuatro años anteriores. El combate contra el fraude continúa. Beneficios de la ley de salud para ninos y jovenes adultos Niños · Prohíbe a compañías de seguro médico el negar la cobertura a niños bajo la edad de 19 años por tener una ‘condición preexistente.’ Casi 17 millones de niños con condiciones preexistentes ahora son protegidos de discriminación. · Ofrece servicios vitales de cobertura gratis como vacunas e inmunizaciones para niños participando en nuevos planes privados. · Ofrece a millones de niños el acceso a la cobertura de calidad, a partir de 2014. Hoy en día, hay 7 millones de niños americanos sin seguro médico. jovenes Adultos · Permite que los jóvenes adultos permanezcan en el plan de salud de sus papas hasta los 26 años. 6.6 millones de jóvenes adultos han tomado ventaja de la ley, obteniendo seguro medico por el plan de sus papas. 3.1 millones de papas podrían perder su seguro medico sin la ley. · Prohíbe a compañías de seguro médico el negar la cubertura a jóvenes adultos si se enferman o enfrentan un accidente. · Ofrece servicios vitales de cobertura gratis para jóvenes adultos participando en nuevos planes privados. · Ofrece acceso a cobertura de calidad a millones de jóvenes adultos sin acceso a planes asequibles con respeto al establecimiento estatal de Mercado de Seguros Médicos, a partir de 2014. Los jóvenes adultos hoy en día son el grupo que menos seguro médico tiene en comparación a todos los americanos. la ley de Cuidado de salud Esta Generando Ahorros para los consumidores Reembolsos Para Los Consumidores Quienes No Reciben Buen Valor de Sus Dólares · El agosto pasado, casi 13 millones de estadounidenses se beneficiaron de $1.1 mil millones en reembolsos ofrecidos por sus compañías de seguro médico debido a la Ley de Cuidado de Salud. Bajo la ley de salud, las compañías aseguradoras deben gastar al menos 80 por ciento de primas en asistencia médica – en lugar de salario de los propietarios, o en las ganancias y costos administrativos. Cada verano, todas las compañías de seguro médico quienes no cumplieron con el estándar el año anterior, deben de pagar reembolsos a sus consumidores. Estos reembolsos se basan en el hecho de que las compañías aseguradoras no cumplieron con el estándar en año 2011. · En este agosto, 8.5 millones de consumidores recibirán un gran total de $500 millones en reembolsos por parte de las compañías aseguradoras que no cumplieron con el estándar en el 2012. En el año 2012, consumidores ahorraron $3.4 mil millones en sus primas, más los $500 millones en reembolsos, después de que las compañías aseguradoras cumplieron con el estándar 80-20. Revisión de Tasas · Las provisiones de la revisión de tasas de la ley de salud han ayudado a estadounidenses ahorrar un estimado de $1 mil millón en sus primas. La revisión de tasas asegura que las compañías de seguro médico, en cada estado, son requeridas a públicamente presentar las primas para revisar y justificar los incrementos de las primas de más de 10 por ciento. Los incrementos de las primas pueden ser públicamente consideradas como ‘irrazonable.’ Desde que las reformas fueron efectivas, el porcentaje de aumento de las primas por las compañías aseguradoras se ha desplomado de 75 por ciento en 2010 a 14 por ciento en lo que va de 2013. · La ley de salud también ofrece a los estados $250 millones en becas. A consecuencia, muchos estados están usando estas becas para fortalecer sus habilidades de revisar y evitar los aumentos de las primas excesivas. La Ley de cuidado de salud esta contendiendo los costos La Ley de Cuidado de Salud tiene numerosas provisiones para reducir el crecimiento del costo de seguro médico – incluyendo nueva transparencia y responsabilidad para compañías de seguro médico; reformas clave del systema de suministro; combatiendo el fraude y el abuso; una mejor coordinación de salud; y previniendo enfermedades – las cuales ahora están siendo implementadas. La ley de cuidado de salud esta reduciendo el costo de Seguro medico mediante la reduccion de residuos y fraude y promoviendo un cuidado de alta calidad: · Casi $15 mil millones en pagos de Medicare fraudulentos han sido recuperados por parte de los estadounidenses a través de los últimos cuatro años – principalmente debido a las nuevas herramientas, contenidas en la ley de cuidado médico, para combatir el fraude de Medicare. · Los reingresos hospitalarios de Medicare han caído por primera vez en la historia, resultando en 70,000 reingresos menos en el último semestre de 2012. · Más de 250 nuevas Organizaciones de Cuidado Responsable (Accountable Care Organizations), sirviendo a 4 millones de personas inscritas en Medicare, se les paga de acuerdo a la calidad del seguro médico que prestan, no la cantidad. El CRECIMIENTO del gasto general de cuidado de salud y el gasto de MEDICAMENTOS ha reducido a niveles historicamente bajos: · El gasto total de salud de EE.UU. creció por sólo un 3.9 por ciento en el año 2009, 2010, 2011, y 2012 – con un 3.9 por ciento, la tasa de crecimiento más baja en cualquier año durante los 53 años de las cuentas de gasto nacional de salud. · Entre el año 2010 y el año 2012, los gastos por beneficiario de Medicare aumentaron por solo un 1.7 por ciento anualmente – drásticamente más lento que el periodo entre el año 2000 y el año 2009. · Los gastos por beneficiario de Medicaid disminuyeron por 1.9 por ciento en el año 2012. · A consecuencia, según un informe del CBO (por sus siglas en ingles), Medicare y Medicaid ahora gastaran $700 mil millones menos a través de un periodo de 10 años, desde el 2011 hasta el 2020. Unas primas son estables y el crecimiento en otras primas estan en niveles historicamente bajos: · El promedio de la prima para personas inscritas en “Medicare Advantage” en el 2013 es 10 por ciento más bajo que el promedio de la prima en el año 2010. · El promedio de la prima para la Parte D de Medicare (programa de medicamentos Rx) permanecerá estable por el cuarto año consecutivo en el 2014 – proyectado en $31. Durante los últimos tres años – año del plan de 2011, 2012, y 2013 – el promedio de la prima fue $30. · Las primas de la Parte B de Medicare no aumentarían en el año 2014 – permanecerían en $104.90, el nivel del año 2013. Las primas de la Parte B de Medicare han permanecido igual o han reducido en los últimos tres años. · El crecimiento de las primas de planes privados ha ralentizado. Las primas anuales para la cubertura de salud patrocinada por el empleador para un trabajador aumentaron por solo un 3 por ciento en el 2012 – el incremento más bajo desde el año 1996.
11.08.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) traveled to Mexico City for meetings with members of the Mexican administration, including President Enrique Peña-Nieto, the Ambassador of the United States to Mexico Earl Anthony Wayne, officials from Pemex, and various Mexican Members of Congress. In those meetings, he discussed various items, including the proposal for a high speed rail from San Antonio to Laredo to Monterrey and the Transboundary Agreement between the United States and Mexico. Congressman Cuellar greets Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto in Mexico City Congressman Cuellar meets with Alejandro Chacón, the head of Mexican Customs Administration and Marco Gonzalez, Mexican Member of Congress
11.08.2013	On Friday, November 8th, Congressman Henry Cuellar spoke at the opening of the newly expanded Veteran’s Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Laredo. “The expansion of the clinic into a new facility almost doubles the amount of current space and provides more services to the veterans living in Webb County,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “Even before I was sworn into Congress, I announced a plan to build a new clinic in Laredo so that veterans would not have to travel 150 miles to receive care in San Antonio. This will save the veterans and their families time, expenses, and inconvenience and will finally provide veterans with the care and support they deserve close to home.” The new facility provides extended primary services including coverage of mental health, nutrition, women’s health, podiatry, dental, tele-health, and social work services. El Congresista Henry Cuellar habla ante apertura de la clínica para veteranos en Laredo El viernes, 8 de noviembre, el congresista Henry Cuellar dio palabras ante la apertura de la clínica para veteranos en Laredo. “La expansión de las instalaciones duplicará el tamaño de la clínica y proporcionará más servicios a las veteranos del condado de Webb,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Antes de ingresar a la Cámara de Diputados, anuncié planes para la construcción de una clínica en Laredo para que los veteranos no tuvieran que viajar 150 millas a la clínica de San Antonio. Esta clínica les ahorrará a los veteranos y a sus familias tiempo, dinero y la inconveniencia de viajar. Las nuevas instalaciones ofrecerán el cuidado de salud que los veteranos se merecen cerca de su hogar.” Estas nuevas instalaciones ofrecerán servicios primarios extensivos los cuales incluyen salud mental, nutrición, salud de las mujeres, podología, dental, telesalud, y servicios sociales.
11.07.2013	On Thursday, November 7th, the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) hosted a Home Weatherization Workshop for Starr County residents. The workshop was hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar’s Outreach Coordinators and provided a broad array of information on home weatherization, preservation, and repairs. The program was designed to provide senior citizens, low-income families, Americans with disabilities, and veterans the opportunity to meet with Federal and State agencies about programs that meet their specific needs. “My hope is that this event will be able to serve as a one-stop shop for constituents to apply and benefit from programs available from the large number of agencies that we have assembled,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “These programs represent investments into our local economies. The community restoration from these programs triggers a domino effect that lowers energy bills and gives families more discretionary income each month, helping produce economic prosperity in the community. I will continue to work with the cities, counties, and agencies across the district to ensure that federal resources continue to be allocated to pressing local needs.” “The costs associated with maintaining a home are a challenge for many rural homeowners,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “USDA Rural Development programs are available to provide housing rehabilitation assistance to weatherize and repair existing homes, install or improve plumbing, and provide access to people with disabilities, all critical components to improving the lives of rural residents.” “We strongly encourage Starr County residents to attend and learn how they can benefit from this event, as even relatively minor home improvements can save homeowners money over several years,” said Tim Irvine, TDHCA Executive Director. “Unfortunately, many Texans simply may not know how to obtain this type of assistance, a problem this event can begin to address. And while these resources are limited, many programs are available locally so we are hoping to see a big turnout.”
11.06.2013	On Friday, November 8th, Congressman Henry Cuellar will provide remarks at the opening of the newly expanded Veteran’s Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Laredo. “The expansion of the clinic into a new facility almost doubles the amount of current space and provides more services to the veterans living in Webb County,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “Even before I was sworn into Congress, I announced a plan to build a new clinic in Laredo so that veterans would not have to travel 150 miles to receive care in San Antonio. This will save the veterans and their families time, expenses, and inconvenience and will finally provide veterans with the care and support they deserve close to home.” The new facility provides extended primary services including coverage of mental health, nutrition, women’s health, podiatry, dental, tele-health, and social work services. WHAT: Laredo VA Clinic Opening WHO: Congressman Henry Cuellar Robert M. Walton, Director of VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Joseph Dalpiaz, Director of VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network Raul Salinas, Mayor of the City of Laredo DATE: Friday, November 8th TIME: 9:30am-10:30am CT Laredo, Texas – El viernes, 8 de noviembre, el congresista Henry Cuellar dará palabras ante la apertura de la clínica para veteranos en Laredo. “La expansión de las instalaciones duplicará el tamaño de la clínica y proporcionará más servicios a las veteranos del condado de Webb,” dijo el Congresista Henry Cuellar. “Antes de ingresar a la Cámara de Diputados, anuncié planes para la construcción de una clínica en Laredo para que los veteranos no tuvieran que viajar 150 millas a la clínica de San Antonio. Esta clínica les ahorrará a los veteranos y a sus familias tiempo, dinero y la inconveniencia de viajar. Las nuevas instalaciones ofrecerán el cuidado de salud que los veteranos se merecen cerca de su hogar.” Estas nuevas instalaciones ofrecerán servicios primarios extensivos los cuales incluyen salud mental, nutrición, salud de las mujeres, podología, dental, telesalud, y servicios sociales. Evento: Apertura de la Clínica para Veteranos en Laredo, Texas Participantes: Congressman Henry Cuellar Robert M. Walton, Director of VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Joseph Dalpiaz, Director of VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network Raul Salinas, Mayor of the City of Laredo Fecha: Viernes 8 de noviembre Hora: 9:30am-10:30am CT
11.05.2013	On Friday, November 8th, Congressman Henry Cuellar will provide remarks at the opening of the newly expanded Veteran’s Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Laredo. “The expansion of the clinic into a new facility almost doubles the amount of current space and provides more services to the veterans living in Webb County,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “Even before I was sworn into Congress, I announced a plan to build a new clinic in Laredo so that veterans would not have to travel 150 miles to receive care in San Antonio. This will save the veterans and their families time, expenses, and inconvenience and will finally provide veterans with the care and support they deserve close to home.” The new facility provides extended primary services including coverage of mental health, nutrition, women’s health, podiatry, dental, tele-health, and social work services. WHAT: Laredo VA Clinic Opening WHO: Congressman Henry Cuellar Robert M. Walton, Director of VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Joseph Dalpiaz, Director of VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network Raul Salinas, Mayor of the City of Laredo DATE: Friday, November 8th TIME: 9:30am-10:30am CT
11.04.2013	On Monday, November 4th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will provide remarks at the 30th Anniversary Memorial Service for Deputy Ollie F. “Sammie” Childress Jr., hosted by the Wilson County Sheriff’s Department. “Thirty years ago today, the life of Deputy Sheriff Ollie F. “Sammie” Childress Jr. was cut short while he served in the line of duty,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The cowardly act that took Sheriff Childress too soon robbed us of an upright public servant and defender. It is an honor to speak on the occasion of his memorial and stand in the company of his family and the men and women who have dedicated their lives to serve and protect our communities. Deputy Childress’s acts of selflessness and bravery and his years of service to the communities in Wilson County serve as an example for us all.”
11.04.2013	On Thursday, November 7th, the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) will host a Home Repair and Energy Efficiency Workshop for Starr County residents. “During the month of August, my grants coordinators traveled across the Rio Grande Valley communities in the 28th District of Texas as part of an effort to ensure that federal resources are allocated to address local needs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “During that tour, we heard from local leaders and elected officials in Starr County that there is a need for more resources for home repair and weatherization, especially for the elderly and low income families. Weatherization efforts such as fixing roofs, ensuring that homes receive proper heating and cooling, and other general repairs can raise property values throughout the community. I encourage residents across Starr County to attend this workshop so that they can learn about federal resources that match their needs.” “The costs associated with maintaining a home are a challenge for many rural homeowners,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “USDA Rural Development programs are available to provide housing rehabilitation assistance to weatherize and repair existing homes, install or improve plumbing, and provide access to people with disabilities, all critical components to improving the lives of rural residents.” “We strongly encourage Starr County residents to attend and learn how they can benefit from this event, as even relatively minor home improvements can save homeowners money over several years,” said Tim Irvine, TDHCA Executive Director. “Unfortunately, many Texans simply may not know how to obtain this type of assistance, a problem this event can begin to address. And while these resources are limited, many programs are available locally so we are hoping to see a big turnout.” The workshop will be hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar’s Outreach Coordinators and will provide a broad array of information on home weatherization, preservation, and repairs. The program is designed to provide senior citizens, low-income families, Americans with disabilities, and veterans the opportunity to meet with Federal and State agencies and apply for programs that meet their specific needs. The event will include a presentation and a fair with booths for residents to ask questions and start applications. Following this event, Congressman Cuellar’s grants coordinators will follow up with the individuals who attended to ensure that they have completed applications and received federal funds. What: Weatherization and Home Revitalization Workshop Who: Participants will include: · Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) · Texas Department Housing and Community Affairs (TDHCA) · US Department of Agricultural Rural Development (USDA-Rural Development) · American Electric Power (AEP) · Community Resource Group (CRG) · Community Action Corporation of South Texas (CAC) · Costal Bend Center for Independent Living · Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas · Habitat for Humanity of the Rio Grande Valley · Medina Electric Cooperative, Inc · Texas Veterans Land Board · VA Texas Valley Costal Bend Health Care System Starr County Administration · South Texas College · Starr County Industrial Foundation · Rio Grande City Administration · Texas Office of the Secretary of State · Roma City Administration · La Grulla City Administration · Community of San Isidro · City of Escobares Administration When: Thursday, November 7 · 9:45 AM CT – Presentations by Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, United States Department of Agricultural and Rural Development, and the Veteran’s Administration – Auditorium · 10:45 AM CT – Fair – Cafeteria Where: South Texas College, Rio Grande City Campus – Student Services Building/Auditorium 142 N FM 3167 Rio Grande City, TX Rio Grande City, Texas – El jueves, 7 de noviembre, la oficina del congresista Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) ofrecerá una sesión para la reparación del hogar y la eficiencia energética para los residentes del Condado de Starr. “Durante el mes de agosto, los coordinadores de mi oficina que asisten en encontrar fondos federales viajaron por el distrito 28 de Texas para reunirse con oficiales locales y líderes de la comunidad sobres sus necesidades locales,” dijo el congresista Cuellar. “Durante este viaje, encontraron una falta de recursos federales en el condado de Starr, y a causa de esta falta, mi oficina ofrecerá una sesión para los residentes del condado sobre reparaciones del hogar y eficiencia energética. Las reparaciones del hogar, como arreglar el techo o mejorar los sistemas de calefacción o enfriamiento, pueden subir el valor de la propiedad a lo largo de la comunidad. Les animo a los residentes del Condado de Starr a asistir a esta sesión para que aprendan de los recursos federales que puedan cumplir con sus necesidades locales. La sesión tratará con temas de climatizar, preservar, y reparar el hogar. Ciertos métodos pueden reducir el consumo de energía de su hogar y así reducir su factura de electricidad. Se hizo la sesión para que los residentes de Starr puedan conocer las agencias federales que ofrecen programas que puedan responder a sus necesidades. El evento incluye presentaciones y una exposición con los agencias federales y estatales para que los residentes puedan hacer sus preguntas y empezar los aplicaciones. Después del evento, los coordinadores del congresista se pondrán en contacto con los asistentes para asegurar que han cumplido las aplicaciones y que ha recibido fondos federales. Evento: Sesión para reparaciones del hogar para el condado de Starr Participantes: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) · Texas Department Housing and Community Affairs (TDHCA) · US Department of Agricultural Rural Development (USDA-Rural Development) · American Electric Power (AEP) · Community Resource Group (CRG) · Community Action Corporation of South Texas (CAC) · Costal Bend Center for Independent Living · Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas · Habitat for Humanity of the Rio Grande Valley · Medina Electric Cooperative, Inc · Texas Veterans Land Board · VA Texas Valley Costal Bend Health Care System Starr County Administration · South Texas College · Starr County Industrial Foundation · Rio Grande City Administration · Texas Office of the Secretary of State · Roma City Administration · La Grulla City Administration · Community of San Isidro · City of Escobares Administration Fecha y hora: Jueves el 7 de noviembre · 9:45 AM CT – Presentations by Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, United States Department of Agricultural and Rural Development, and the Veteran’s Administration – Auditorium · 10:45 AM CT – Fair – Cafeteria Ubicación: South Texas College, Rio Grande City Campus – Student Services Building/Auditorium 142 N FM 3167 Rio Grande City, TX
11.04.2013	On Thursday, November 14th, the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar will host a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar for residents of Atascosa County. The event is free and open to the public and will provide information on how to purchase health insurance and where to get help locally. “The Affordable Care Act is about taking personal responsibility for the costs of healthcare and providing access to quality, affordable care for all Americans and all Atascosa County residents,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “Atascosa County has over 10,400 uninsured residents, 26.6% of the population, some of whom may be eligible for coverage under the new Health Insurance Marketplace. I am glad to partner with the South Texas Regional Medical Center, Atascosa Health Center, the Alamo Area Council of Governments, Young Invincibles, and Enroll America to host this health insurance marketplace community workshop. I encourage all residents of Atascosa County to attend and educate themselves about the resources available to purchase affordable health insurance.” WHAT: Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar WHO: Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) South Texas Regional Medical Center Atascosa Health Center Alamo Area Council of Governments Young Invincibles Enroll America WHERE: South Texas Medical Plaza Community Room on the campus of South Texas Regional Medical Center 1907 HWY 97 E Jourdanton, TX WHEN: Thursday, November 14th 6 – 9PM
10.30.2013	Dear Friends, The Affordable Care Act is a landmark health reform law that ensures affordable, quality, and accessible health care as a right, not a privilege, for every American. The law also ensures that all Americans take personal responsibility for their own healthcare costs, which protects the well-being of working families and the strength of the middle class. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Texas has the highest rate of individuals without health insurance and the largest number of children without health insurance in the nation. In Webb County alone, 36.8% of residents do not have health insurance (source: Center for American Progress). This is why I am hosting a Health Insurance Marketplace Community Seminar with local agencies and organizations to provide all of the resources you need to get informed and get covered. The workshop is open to the public and will provide an introduction to the Affordable Care Act and the new health insurance marketplace. Join us to understand how to purchase health insurance and where to obtain assistance in enrolling for coverage locally in Webb and La Salle Counties from Certified Application Counselor Organizations. These organizations have trained Certified Application Counselors readily available to guide you through the application process. What: Health Insurance Market Place Community Seminars When: Saturday, November 2 Morning Session Presentations 10:00 am - 11:00 am - English 11:00 am - 12:00 pm - Spanish Afternoon Session Presentations 1:30 pm - 2:30 pm - English 2:30 pm - 3:30 pm - Spanish Where: Laredo Community College Fort McIntosh Campus – West End Washington Street, De la Garza Building, Room 101 Participating Agencies and Organizations: Laredo Community College City of Laredo Health Department Webb County Indigent Health Services Enroll America Young Invincibles Doctors Hospital of Laredo Gateway Community Health Center Mercy Ministries of Laredo Laredo Medical Center Centro Aztlan Texas A&M International University UT Health Science Center at San Antonio United Independent School District Laredo Independent School District Webb Consolidated School District Sincerely, Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.27.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the response he received from the Department of State regarding his concerns about Mexico’s delayed water delivery to the United States. “I appreciate the response received from the State Department and will continue to advocate for efforts for swift water delivery. I am encouraged to see that this issue has been discussed at the highest level between the Vice President and Mexican President Pena Nieto. I will continue to monitor a situation that affects thousands of constituents living along the U.S.-Mexico border.” The full text of the letter may be found below. “Dear Mr. Cuellar: Thank you for your letter of September 17 to Vice President Biden concerning the deficit in Mexico’s water delivery to the United States. The White House has asked that we respond to the Vice President’s behalf. In Mexico City on September 20, the Vice President underscored to Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto the important of resolving this matter quickly and fairly. We recognize the hardships and cost exacted by the drought and water delivery deficit on Texas communities, manifested in the local governmental resolutions that accompanied your letter. You are right that the Mexican Government needs to make a greater effort to include users in the United States in their water resource planning. The Department of State and the U.S. Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission are working on a plan to alleviate that suffering and avoid future water delivery deficits. The active involvement of Texas authorities in these discussions is a key factor in helping forge a better understanding of the issue and in designing possible solutions. This involvement will continue to be crucial to our efforts. Bolstered by the Vice President’s direct appear to President Pena Nieto, the U.S. Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission has met on two more occasions with its Mexican counterpart, most recently on October 10 together with the Texas Water Development Board, to further fashion a path forward. We will persist in our efforts to secure sustained and predictable water deliveries to Texas by Mexico and will continue to keep this a top priority item in our bilateral agenda with Mexico. We hope this information is helpful to you. Please do not hesitate to contact us if we can be of further assistance on this or any other matter. Sincerely, Thomas B. Gibbons Acting Assistant Secretary Legislative Affairs”
10.24.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the release of the Privacy Impact Assessment on Customs & Border Protection’s use of both manned and unmanned aircraft systems: “As a Congressman representing a district with over 300 miles of border, I applaud U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Privacy Office for their efforts to ensure the transparency of our border security activities,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “These two agencies recently published a report that found minimal risk of unintentional privacy violations from the use of manned and unmanned aircraft for border security and law enforcement purposes. Unmanned aerial systems are monitored at all times by operators and only used in support of authorized missions. In addition, all unmanned systems are protected from potential hackers and any data collected by aircraft sensors is safely stored in secure locations.” “I remain committed to the use of technology and smart border security to keep Americans safe but I will be the first to support continued investigation of potential privacy concerns regarding unmanned systems. Ensuring that our nation’s borders are secured and Americans’ privacy remains protected is a delicate balance, but it is one that we must engage in to fulfill our responsibility to the American people.” The report is now available for public view on DHS’ Privacy Office’s website at http://www.dhs.gov/privacy-documents-us-customs-and-border-protection.
10.24.2013	Dear Friends in the Education Community, I would like to share with you two exciting programs that I learned about during a recent conversation with officials from NASA, the agency in charge of our nation’s space exploration. To encourage student interest in STEM, NASA allows K-12 schools, colleges, and universities to apply for and receive free donations of space artifacts to put on display for students or to use in class. These artifacts come directly from space voyages and space-related technology. They include, but are not limited to, pieces of space shuttles, items from the Hubble Space Telescope, consoles from the Johnson Space Center, items from the International Space Station, pieces of space suits, and much more. New artifacts are added to the program’s inventory as they become available. These artifacts are free and applicants only have to pay for shipping costs. NASA offers two separate programs: the NASA Artifacts Program and the NASA Special Items Program. The Artifacts Program requires the submission of an application that becomes available about four times per year and the competition is open for approximately three weeks. A new competition just opened on October 21. Unlike the Artifacts Program, the Special Items Program is continuously open and does not require a special application. However, the free space technology is only available on a first come, first served basis. For both programs, schools, colleges and universities must register and be approved by NASA to participate. You’ll need your institution’s IPEDS number to complete the registration. For more information on how to register with NASA and view the available inventory, visit this website: http://gsaxcess.gov/nasawel.htm. Motivate our kids to prepare for careers of the future by putting a piece of outer space in their hands. Sincerely, Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.22.2013	Dear Friends, I am pleased to announce that the White House will be re-opening for limited Public Tours of the East Wing and Executive Residence starting November 5th and beyond. A tour of the White House is a great way for visitors of all ages to visit the heart of our nation's Capitol and learn about the executive decision making process. Contact my office to request a tour of the White House's East Wing. Photo credit: White House Museum If you are a resident of the 28th District of Texas, my office can help you place a request for a White House tour. Please visit my website here to submit your request or call my Washington, DC office at 202-225-1640. Unfortunately, my office cannot guarantee a tour placement, so be sure to submit your request as far in advance as possible. All final decisions on tour requests are made at the discretion of the White House. Sincerely, Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.21.2013	Laredo, Texas – On Monday, October 21st, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) presented a total of $446,883 in federal funds to Serving Children and Adults in Need, Inc. (SCAN), non-profit organization that advocates for healthy development of families along the Texas-Mexico border. These funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families through its Basic Center Program (BCP) and will be used to sustain SCAN’s current runaway and homeless youth program for the next three years. “With these funds, SCAN will be able to maintain a quality operational facility to utilize the services of the program to its full potential,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This organization has devoted its efforts to provide children and families along the border with the assistance they require to get off the street and into a safe and beneficial environment.” The Runaway and Homeless Youth Program (RHY) provide services to both male and female youths under the age of 18 in Laredo, Texas and Webb County. The program offers a 24-hour emergency shelter for up to 21 days in order to treat the immediate and overall physical and psychological needs of the child and/or family. (Featured from Left to Right: SCAN Vice President, Dr. Christopher Craddock, CEO Isela S. Dabdoub, and Congressman Henry Cuellar) “SCAN has been fortunate to receive funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services - Family and Youth Services Bureau since September 1992,” said Isela S. Dabdoub, CEO, Serving Children and Adults in Need, Inc. “We are extremely happy to once again have been funded to continue serving youth who run away from home, are asked to leave their homes or become homeless. This funding supports street outreach services and emergency youth shelter to serve and protect these youth.” Ultimately, SCAN’s proposed mission for this program is to utilize a positive youth development framework by conducting runaway and homeless youth community-wide prevention through street-based outreach, as well as, conduct aftercare and follow-up services to those who have participated in the program to increase stability and positive outcomes. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, or YouTube Channel
10.18.2013	Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on his membership to the Congressional Future Caucus: “This week, I joined the bipartisan Congressional Future Caucus, a group that aims to reengage the next generation of American leaders,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “As a father of two young daughters, it is important for me to ensure that the world they inherit is forward looking and full of opportunity. The unique challenges faced by young people of their generation are some of the most important to me – a quality education, affordable healthcare, and participation in our democratic process. I encourage my colleagues across the aisle to partner together so that we can reengage young people with our government, at the federal, state, and local level. This kind of commitment can be demonstrated through community service, an interest in public affairs, and a dedication to making the neighborhoods in which we live a better place. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that the next generation of Americans is engaged with the pressing issues facing our nation.”
10.18.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the nomination of Jeh Johnson as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security: “I congratulate Jeh Johnson for his nomination as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and applaud his selection by the Obama Administration. I commend Secretary Janet Napolitano for her years of service keeping our country safe and secure as well as the work of the men and women who stand on the front lines of homeland security every day. Jeh Johnson brings years of experience and knowledge of national security and will make an excellent head of this essential Agency. As a lifelong resident of the border and a Congressman representing the largest inland port in the country, I know personally the importance of maintaining a secure border that fosters trade and legal immigration. As former member of the Committee on Homeland Security and current member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security, I recognize the vital importance of ensuring that we continue to support the Agency that keeps our fight against terrorism nimble, effective, and cutting edge. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that the confirmation process is a swift one, as we cannot allow our nation to remain without a strong leader stands at the helm of the Department of Homeland Security.”
10.18.2013	Dear Friends, Recently, I spoke with representatives at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to inquire about grant and other opportunities available for schools, colleges and universities in our district. I have long supported science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) and believe that it is critical to invest in our educational institutions to prepare students for jobs of the future. Below is a list of upcoming opportunities with NASA, many of which have deadlines this month. Despite, the shutdown, the NASA grants portal is operating normally; therefore, I encourage those who are interested to take advantage of these opportunities. Ocean Vector Winds Science Team · NNH13ZDA001N-OSFC · Deadline: 10/31/2013 Outer Planets Research · NNH13ZDA001N-OPR · Deadline: 11/01/2013 NASA Astrobiology Institute Cycle 7 Cooperative Agreement Notice · NNH13ZDA017C · Deadline: 11/04/2013 Innovative Concepts for Aviation – Leading Edge Aeronautics Research for NASA (LEARN2) · NNH13ZEA001N-LEARN2 · Deadline: 11/05/2013 NASA Civil Servant Labor - ROSES 2013 · NNH13ZDA001N-CSLABOR13 · Deadline: Ongoing until April 30, 2014 Ocean Salinity Field Campaign Analysis and Planning · NNH13ZDA001N-OSFC · Deadline: 11/01/2013 (Notice of Intent due) · 12/02/2013 (final application) Sincerely, Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.16.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on his vote to end the Republican shutdown and increase the debt limit: “Today I joined my colleagues across the aisle and voted to end the Republican shutdown and increase the debt ceiling. The final vote count was 285-144, with almost two thirds of the Republican caucus voting to keep the government closed and default on our national debt. After 16 days of a government shutdown and days of teetering on the edge of a national default, we have ended up almost exactly where we started on September 30th. We have passed a clean debt limit increase and a clean continuing resolution. The only difference was requirement for strict efforts to verify the income of individuals who apply for subsidies under the Affordable Care Act, a measure that would like have enjoyed bipartisan support regardless. I will be the first one to say that we need to have a serious conversation about our national debt, wasteful spending in the federal government, and changes to the Affordable Care Act. But the tactics used by a small faction of the Republican Party put our economy at risk and harm the American people. More than two weeks of government shutdown have cost the U.S economy $1.5 billion a day in lost revenue and shaved 0.6% from U.S. GDP in the 4th quarter.[1] The stock market dropped 133 points on Tuesday as global markets were anxious at the threat of a potentially historic U.S. default.[2] Even the business community, a long time ally of the GOP, has called on Republican leaders to not place political motives ahead of the full faith and credit of the United States.[3] And this week, one of the three largest credit rating agencies, Fitch, issued a negative outlook on U.S. Treasury bonds. Because of the shutdown, President Obama had to cancel a trip to Asia to meet with leaders from across the region. In his absence, the Chinese president took center stage and advanced his country’s agenda. Our failure to uphold the basic responsibilities of Congress has delayed action on important pieces of legislation such as the Farm Bill, water and transportation bills, and Comprehensive Immigration Reform. Now, finally, we can get back to the real work of representing the American people here in Washington. We cannot continue to govern from crisis to crisis. We cannot continue to allow a small minority of the Republican Party to hold our government hostage every time they want to make a point. This kind of governance hurts our country – it hurts veterans, seniors, border patrol agents, federal employees, and others. It also hurts our standing as a nation, putting our full faith and credit into doubt. I hope that when we debate the federal budget again on January 15, 2014 and an extension of the debt limit on February 7, 2014 that the extreme part of the Republican Party does not repeat this national nightmare.” [1] http://www.theguardian.com/business/2013/oct/16/government-shutdown-has-cost-us-economy-15bn-a-day-sp-says [2] http://www.politico.com/story/2013/10/stock-markets-government-shutdown-budget-deal-update-98391.html#ixzz2hutfNFih [3] http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/10/us/business-groups-see-loss-of-sway-over-house-gop.html
10.14.2013	HOME ABOUT 28TH DISTRICT SERVICE ISSUES NEWSROOM STUDENTS CONTACT October 14, 2013 Congressman Cuellar Releases New Healthcare Premiums and Plans for 28th District of Texas Washington, D.C. - Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the premiums and plans available for consumers across the 28th District of Texas under the new Health Insurance Marketplace launched October 1st. Healthcare.gov has posted the prices for the various premium plans for states with Federally-Facilitated Marketplaces, such as Texas. Consumers can now visit Healthcare.gov and review plans before enrolling in the Marketplace. Plans are priced partly on geographic location and the plans are presented in 5 categories: Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, and catastrophic. The category a consumer chooses affects how much his or her premium costs each month and what portion of the bill the consumer pays for things like hospital visits or prescription medications. It also affects total out-of-pocket costs. The Marketplace also offers "catastrophic" plans to people under 30 years old and to some people with very low incomes. The table below shows premiums available for the following rating scenarios: Adult individual = age 27; Adult individual = age 50; Family = 2 adults age 30, 2 children; Family single parent = 1 adult age 30, 2 children; Couple = 2 adults age 40, no children; Child = 1 child any age. These examples are offered for comparison purposes only. When an individual provides household and income information on the Marketplace application, the applicant’s specific age, household makeup, and smoking status will be used to determine premium costs. IMPORTANT NOTE: The prices here don’t reflect the lower costs an applicant may qualify for based on household size and income. Many people who apply will qualify for reduced costs through tax credits that are automatically applied to monthly premiums. These credits will significantly lower the prices shown for a majority of those applying. Final price quotes are available only after someone has completed a Marketplace application. Visit https://www.healthcare.gov/health-plan-information/ to review all premium plans for the State of Texas as well as the other States with Federally-Facilitated Marketplace. Health Insurance Marketplace Premium Plan Information for Individuals and Families in TX-28 Counties State County Metal Level Issuer Name Plan Marketing Name Plan Type Rating Area Premium Adult Individual Age 27 Premium Adult Individual Age 50 * Premium Family Premium Single Parent Family Premium Couple * Premium Child TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 19 $293.34 $499.91 $990.86 $673.17 $715.44 $177.74 TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 19 $300.00 $511.26 $1,013.38 $688.47 $731.68 $181.78 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 19 $242.66 $413.55 $819.68 $556.87 $591.84 $147.03 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 19 $250.30 $426.56 $845.48 $574.40 $610.48 $151.66 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 19 $177.93 $303.22 $601.02 $408.32 $433.96 $107.81 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 19 $175.96 $299.87 $594.38 $403.81 $429.16 $106.62 TX ATASCOSA Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 19 $173.35 $295.42 $585.56 $397.82 $422.80 $105.04 TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $312.03 $531.76 $1,053.98 $716.05 $761.02 $189.06 TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $305.29 $520.28 $1,031.24 $700.60 $744.58 $184.98 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $245.32 $418.07 $828.64 $562.96 $598.32 $148.64 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $234.34 $399.35 $791.56 $537.77 $571.52 $141.99 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $184.93 $315.16 $624.66 $424.38 $451.02 $112.05 TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 19 $240.87 $410.48 $813.60 $552.74 $587.46 $145.94 TX ATASCOSA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 19 $246.92 $420.80 $834.06 $566.64 $602.22 $149.61 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 19 $196.24 $334.43 $662.88 $450.35 $478.62 $118.91 TX ATASCOSA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 19 $202.34 $344.83 $683.48 $464.34 $493.50 $122.60 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.41 $235.88 $467.54 $317.64 $337.58 $83.87 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.38 $235.83 $467.44 $317.57 $337.50 $83.85 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 5750 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $190.00 $323.00 $640.00 $435.00 $462.00 $115.00 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 6350 PPO Rating Area 19 $178.00 $303.00 $600.00 $408.00 $434.00 $108.00 TX ATASCOSA Bronze Aetna Aetna AdvantagePlus 5500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $184.00 $314.00 $622.00 $423.00 $450.00 $112.00 TX ATASCOSA Catastrophic Aetna Aetna Basic PPO Rating Area 19 $135.00 $230.00 $456.00 $310.00 $328.00 $82.00 TX ATASCOSA Gold Aetna Aetna Premier 2000 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $262.00 $447.00 $886.00 $602.00 $640.00 $159.00 TX ATASCOSA Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 3500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $239.00 $408.00 $808.00 $549.00 $584.00 $145.00 TX ATASCOSA Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 5000 PPO Rating Area 19 $220.00 $375.00 $742.00 $504.00 $536.00 $133.00 TX BEXAR Catastrophic Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Basic 6350/6350 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $108.78 $185.38 $367.44 $249.63 $265.30 $65.91 TX BEXAR Bronze Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Bronze 6300/6300 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $148.54 $253.15 $501.74 $340.87 $362.28 $90.00 TX BEXAR Bronze Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Bronze 4850/6350 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $160.11 $272.86 $540.82 $367.42 $390.48 $97.01 TX BEXAR Silver Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Silver 4600/6300 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $168.44 $287.08 $568.98 $386.55 $410.82 $102.06 TX BEXAR Gold Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Gold 2500/3500 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $192.13 $327.44 $649.00 $440.91 $468.58 $116.41 TX BEXAR Platinum Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. Humana Connect Platinum 0/1500 Plan HMO Rating Area 19 $233.56 $398.06 $788.94 $535.98 $569.64 $141.51 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 19 $293.34 $499.91 $990.86 $673.17 $715.44 $177.74 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 19 $300.00 $511.26 $1,013.38 $688.47 $731.68 $181.78 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 19 $242.66 $413.55 $819.68 $556.87 $591.84 $147.03 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 19 $250.30 $426.56 $845.48 $574.40 $610.48 $151.66 TX BEXAR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 19 $177.93 $303.22 $601.02 $408.32 $433.96 $107.81 TX BEXAR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 19 $175.96 $299.87 $594.38 $403.81 $429.16 $106.62 TX BEXAR Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 19 $173.35 $295.42 $585.56 $397.82 $422.80 $105.04 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $312.03 $531.76 $1,053.98 $716.05 $761.02 $189.06 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $305.29 $520.28 $1,031.24 $700.60 $744.58 $184.98 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $245.32 $418.07 $828.64 $562.96 $598.32 $148.64 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $234.34 $399.35 $791.56 $537.77 $571.52 $141.99 TX BEXAR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $184.93 $315.16 $624.66 $424.38 $451.02 $112.05 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 19 $240.87 $410.48 $813.60 $552.74 $587.46 $145.94 TX BEXAR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 19 $246.92 $420.80 $834.06 $566.64 $602.22 $149.61 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 19 $196.24 $334.43 $662.88 $450.35 $478.62 $118.91 TX BEXAR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 19 $202.34 $344.83 $683.48 $464.34 $493.50 $122.60 TX BEXAR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.41 $235.88 $467.54 $317.64 $337.58 $83.87 TX BEXAR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.38 $235.83 $467.44 $317.57 $337.50 $83.85 TX BEXAR Silver CommunityFirst CommunityFirstPlus HMO Rating Area 19 $316.22 $538.91 $1,068.14 $725.67 $771.24 $191.60 TX BEXAR Gold CommunityFirst CommunityFirst Premier HMO Rating Area 19 $386.29 $658.31 $1,304.82 $886.47 $942.12 $234.06 TX BEXAR Bronze CommunityFirst CommunityFirst Value HMO Rating Area 19 $259.09 $441.54 $875.18 $594.58 $631.90 $156.99 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 2 HMO Rating Area 19 $285.19 $486.02 $963.34 $654.47 $695.56 $172.80 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 4 HMO Rating Area 19 $288.82 $492.20 $975.58 $662.79 $704.40 $175.00 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 1 HMO Rating Area 19 $245.56 $418.48 $829.46 $563.52 $598.90 $148.79 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 3 HMO Rating Area 19 $233.71 $398.29 $789.44 $536.33 $570.00 $141.61 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 4 HMO Rating Area 19 $241.69 $411.89 $816.38 $554.63 $589.46 $146.44 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 5 HMO Rating Area 19 $230.09 $392.11 $777.20 $528.01 $561.16 $139.41 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 1 HMO Rating Area 19 $212.44 $362.05 $717.60 $487.52 $518.14 $128.72 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 3 HMO Rating Area 19 $191.66 $326.62 $647.40 $439.83 $467.44 $116.13 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 4 HMO Rating Area 19 $199.15 $339.39 $672.70 $457.02 $485.72 $120.67 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 2 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $290.48 $495.04 $981.22 $666.62 $708.46 $176.01 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 4 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $294.17 $501.33 $993.68 $675.08 $717.48 $178.24 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 1 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $250.11 $426.24 $844.84 $573.97 $610.00 $151.55 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 3 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $238.05 $405.68 $804.10 $546.29 $580.58 $144.24 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 4 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $246.17 $419.52 $831.54 $564.93 $600.40 $149.16 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 5 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $234.35 $399.39 $791.62 $537.81 $571.58 $142.00 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 1 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $216.38 $368.76 $730.92 $496.57 $527.74 $131.11 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 3 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $195.21 $332.68 $659.40 $447.98 $476.12 $118.28 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 4 + Vision HMO Rating Area 19 $202.84 $345.69 $685.18 $465.50 $494.72 $122.91 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 2 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $306.20 $521.83 $1,034.30 $702.68 $746.80 $185.53 TX BEXAR Gold Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Gold 4 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $310.09 $528.46 $1,047.44 $711.61 $756.30 $187.89 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 1 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $263.64 $449.30 $890.56 $605.03 $643.00 $159.75 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 3 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $250.93 $427.63 $847.60 $575.84 $612.00 $152.04 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 4 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $259.49 $442.23 $876.52 $595.49 $632.88 $157.23 TX BEXAR Silver Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Silver 5 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $247.04 $421.00 $834.44 $566.90 $602.50 $149.68 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 1 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $228.09 $388.72 $770.48 $523.45 $556.30 $138.21 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 3 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $205.78 $350.68 $695.08 $472.22 $501.88 $124.68 TX BEXAR Bronze Ambetter from Superior Health Plan Ambetter Bronze 4 + Vision + Adult Dental HMO Rating Area 19 $213.82 $364.39 $722.26 $490.69 $521.50 $129.56 TX BEXAR Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 5750 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $190.00 $323.00 $640.00 $435.00 $462.00 $115.00 TX BEXAR Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 6350 PPO Rating Area 19 $178.00 $303.00 $600.00 $408.00 $434.00 $108.00 TX BEXAR Bronze Aetna Aetna AdvantagePlus 5500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $184.00 $314.00 $622.00 $423.00 $450.00 $112.00 TX BEXAR Catastrophic Aetna Aetna Basic PPO Rating Area 19 $135.00 $230.00 $456.00 $310.00 $328.00 $82.00 TX BEXAR Gold Aetna Aetna Premier 2000 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $262.00 $447.00 $886.00 $602.00 $640.00 $159.00 TX BEXAR Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 3500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $239.00 $408.00 $808.00 $549.00 $584.00 $145.00 TX BEXAR Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 5000 PPO Rating Area 19 $220.00 $375.00 $742.00 $504.00 $536.00 $133.00 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 15 $238.26 $406.03 $804.78 $546.75 $581.08 $144.36 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 15 $243.67 $415.26 $823.08 $559.18 $594.28 $147.64 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 15 $197.10 $335.89 $665.76 $452.30 $480.70 $119.42 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 15 $203.30 $346.47 $686.72 $466.54 $495.84 $123.18 TX HIDALGO Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 15 $144.52 $246.28 $488.14 $331.63 $352.46 $87.56 TX HIDALGO Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 15 $142.92 $243.56 $482.76 $327.98 $348.56 $86.60 TX HIDALGO Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 15 $140.80 $239.95 $475.60 $323.11 $343.40 $85.31 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 15 $253.44 $431.91 $856.08 $581.60 $618.12 $153.56 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 15 $247.97 $422.58 $837.60 $569.05 $604.76 $150.25 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 15 $199.25 $339.56 $673.04 $457.25 $485.96 $120.73 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 15 $190.33 $324.36 $642.92 $436.79 $464.20 $115.33 TX HIDALGO Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 15 $150.20 $255.98 $507.36 $344.69 $366.34 $91.01 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 15 $189.94 $323.70 $641.60 $435.89 $463.26 $115.09 TX HIDALGO Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 15 $194.72 $331.83 $657.72 $446.84 $474.90 $117.98 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 15 $154.75 $263.73 $522.74 $355.14 $377.42 $93.77 TX HIDALGO Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 15 $159.56 $271.93 $538.98 $366.17 $389.16 $96.68 TX HIDALGO Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 15 $109.15 $186.01 $368.70 $250.49 $266.20 $66.14 TX HIDALGO Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 15 $109.12 $185.97 $368.60 $250.42 $266.14 $66.12 TX HIDALGO Gold Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Gold Plan HMO Rating Area 15 $312.16 $531.97 $1,054.42 $716.35 $761.32 $189.14 TX HIDALGO Silver Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Silver Plan HMO Rating Area 15 $280.55 $478.12 $947.66 $643.82 $684.26 $169.99 TX HIDALGO Catastrophic Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Basic 6350/6350 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $98.03 $167.07 $331.14 $224.97 $239.08 $59.40 TX HIDALGO Bronze Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Bronze 6300/6300 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $134.53 $229.28 $454.44 $308.73 $328.12 $81.51 TX HIDALGO Bronze Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Bronze 4850/6350 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $145.00 $247.13 $489.82 $332.77 $353.66 $87.86 TX HIDALGO Silver Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Silver 4600/6300 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $152.56 $260.00 $515.32 $350.09 $372.08 $92.43 TX HIDALGO Gold Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Gold 2500/3500 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $174.01 $296.56 $587.78 $399.32 $424.40 $105.43 TX HIDALGO Platinum Humana Insurance Company Humana Direct Platinum 1000/1500 Plan EPO Rating Area 15 $196.18 $334.35 $662.68 $450.21 $478.48 $118.87 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 26 $291.68 $497.08 $985.24 $669.35 $711.38 $176.73 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 26 $298.30 $508.37 $1,007.64 $684.57 $727.54 $180.75 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 26 $241.29 $411.21 $815.04 $553.72 $588.50 $146.20 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 26 $248.89 $424.15 $840.70 $571.15 $607.02 $150.80 TX LA SALLE Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 26 $176.92 $301.51 $597.62 $406.01 $431.50 $107.20 TX LA SALLE Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 26 $174.96 $298.17 $591.00 $401.51 $426.72 $106.01 TX LA SALLE Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 26 $172.37 $293.75 $582.24 $395.56 $420.40 $104.44 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $310.27 $528.75 $1,048.04 $712.02 $756.72 $188.00 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $303.57 $517.34 $1,025.42 $696.65 $740.38 $183.94 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $243.93 $415.70 $823.96 $559.78 $594.92 $147.80 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $233.01 $397.10 $787.06 $534.71 $568.30 $141.18 TX LA SALLE Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $183.88 $313.37 $621.14 $421.99 $448.48 $111.42 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 26 $231.86 $395.14 $783.20 $532.09 $565.50 $140.49 TX LA SALLE Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 26 $237.69 $405.07 $802.88 $545.46 $579.72 $144.02 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 26 $188.91 $321.94 $638.10 $433.51 $460.74 $114.46 TX LA SALLE Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 26 $194.78 $331.94 $657.94 $446.99 $475.06 $118.02 TX LA SALLE Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.24 $227.07 $450.06 $305.76 $324.96 $80.73 TX LA SALLE Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.21 $227.01 $449.96 $305.69 $324.88 $80.71 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 26 $291.68 $497.08 $985.24 $669.35 $711.38 $176.73 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 26 $298.30 $508.37 $1,007.64 $684.57 $727.54 $180.75 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 26 $241.29 $411.21 $815.04 $553.72 $588.50 $146.20 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 26 $248.89 $424.15 $840.70 $571.15 $607.02 $150.80 TX MC MULLEN Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 26 $176.92 $301.51 $597.62 $406.01 $431.50 $107.20 TX MC MULLEN Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 26 $174.96 $298.17 $591.00 $401.51 $426.72 $106.01 TX MC MULLEN Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 26 $172.37 $293.75 $582.24 $395.56 $420.40 $104.44 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $310.27 $528.75 $1,048.04 $712.02 $756.72 $188.00 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $303.57 $517.34 $1,025.42 $696.65 $740.38 $183.94 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $243.93 $415.70 $823.96 $559.78 $594.92 $147.80 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $233.01 $397.10 $787.06 $534.71 $568.30 $141.18 TX MC MULLEN Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $183.88 $313.37 $621.14 $421.99 $448.48 $111.42 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 26 $231.86 $395.14 $783.20 $532.09 $565.50 $140.49 TX MC MULLEN Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 26 $237.69 $405.07 $802.88 $545.46 $579.72 $144.02 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 26 $188.91 $321.94 $638.10 $433.51 $460.74 $114.46 TX MC MULLEN Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 26 $194.78 $331.94 $657.94 $446.99 $475.06 $118.02 TX MC MULLEN Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.24 $227.07 $450.06 $305.76 $324.96 $80.73 TX MC MULLEN Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.21 $227.01 $449.96 $305.69 $324.88 $80.71 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 26 $291.68 $497.08 $985.24 $669.35 $711.38 $176.73 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 26 $298.30 $508.37 $1,007.64 $684.57 $727.54 $180.75 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 26 $241.29 $411.21 $815.04 $553.72 $588.50 $146.20 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 26 $248.89 $424.15 $840.70 $571.15 $607.02 $150.80 TX STARR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 26 $176.92 $301.51 $597.62 $406.01 $431.50 $107.20 TX STARR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 26 $174.96 $298.17 $591.00 $401.51 $426.72 $106.01 TX STARR Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 26 $172.37 $293.75 $582.24 $395.56 $420.40 $104.44 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $310.27 $528.75 $1,048.04 $712.02 $756.72 $188.00 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $303.57 $517.34 $1,025.42 $696.65 $740.38 $183.94 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $243.93 $415.70 $823.96 $559.78 $594.92 $147.80 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $233.01 $397.10 $787.06 $534.71 $568.30 $141.18 TX STARR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $183.88 $313.37 $621.14 $421.99 $448.48 $111.42 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 26 $231.86 $395.14 $783.20 $532.09 $565.50 $140.49 TX STARR Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 26 $237.69 $405.07 $802.88 $545.46 $579.72 $144.02 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 26 $188.91 $321.94 $638.10 $433.51 $460.74 $114.46 TX STARR Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 26 $194.78 $331.94 $657.94 $446.99 $475.06 $118.02 TX STARR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.24 $227.07 $450.06 $305.76 $324.96 $80.73 TX STARR Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.21 $227.01 $449.96 $305.69 $324.88 $80.71 TX STARR Gold Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Gold Plan HMO Rating Area 26 $361.45 $615.99 $1,220.94 $829.48 $881.56 $219.01 TX STARR Silver Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Silver Plan HMO Rating Area 26 $324.86 $553.63 $1,097.34 $745.51 $792.32 $196.84 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 12 $255.51 $435.44 $863.08 $586.36 $623.16 $154.82 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 12 $261.31 $445.33 $882.68 $599.67 $637.32 $158.33 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 12 $211.37 $360.22 $713.98 $485.06 $515.52 $128.07 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 12 $218.02 $371.56 $736.44 $500.32 $531.74 $132.10 TX WEBB Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 12 $154.98 $264.12 $523.52 $355.67 $377.98 $93.91 TX WEBB Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 12 $153.27 $261.20 $517.72 $351.73 $373.80 $92.87 TX WEBB Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 12 $151.00 $257.33 $510.04 $346.51 $368.26 $91.49 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 12 $271.79 $463.19 $918.06 $623.71 $662.88 $164.68 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 12 $265.92 $453.18 $898.26 $610.26 $648.56 $161.13 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 12 $213.68 $364.15 $721.78 $490.36 $521.16 $129.47 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 12 $204.12 $347.85 $689.48 $468.42 $497.82 $123.68 TX WEBB Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 12 $161.08 $274.51 $544.10 $369.65 $392.86 $97.60 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 12 $207.55 $353.70 $701.08 $476.30 $506.20 $125.76 TX WEBB Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 12 $212.76 $362.59 $718.70 $488.27 $518.92 $128.92 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 12 $169.10 $288.17 $571.18 $388.05 $412.42 $102.46 TX WEBB Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 12 $174.35 $297.13 $588.94 $400.11 $425.24 $105.64 TX WEBB Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 12 $119.27 $203.25 $402.88 $273.71 $290.88 $72.27 TX WEBB Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 12 $119.24 $203.21 $402.78 $273.64 $290.82 $72.25 TX WEBB Gold Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Gold Plan HMO Rating Area 12 $361.45 $615.99 $1,220.94 $829.48 $881.56 $219.01 TX WEBB Silver Molina Healthcare of Texas Molina Marketplace Silver Plan HMO Rating Area 12 $324.86 $553.63 $1,097.34 $745.51 $792.32 $196.84 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 19 $293.34 $499.91 $990.86 $673.17 $715.44 $177.74 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 19 $300.00 $511.26 $1,013.38 $688.47 $731.68 $181.78 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 19 $242.66 $413.55 $819.68 $556.87 $591.84 $147.03 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 19 $250.30 $426.56 $845.48 $574.40 $610.48 $151.66 TX WILSON Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 19 $177.93 $303.22 $601.02 $408.32 $433.96 $107.81 TX WILSON Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 19 $175.96 $299.87 $594.38 $403.81 $429.16 $106.62 TX WILSON Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 19 $173.35 $295.42 $585.56 $397.82 $422.80 $105.04 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $312.03 $531.76 $1,053.98 $716.05 $761.02 $189.06 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $305.29 $520.28 $1,031.24 $700.60 $744.58 $184.98 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $245.32 $418.07 $828.64 $562.96 $598.32 $148.64 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $234.34 $399.35 $791.56 $537.77 $571.52 $141.99 TX WILSON Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 19 $184.93 $315.16 $624.66 $424.38 $451.02 $112.05 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 19 $240.87 $410.48 $813.60 $552.74 $587.46 $145.94 TX WILSON Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 19 $246.92 $420.80 $834.06 $566.64 $602.22 $149.61 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 19 $196.24 $334.43 $662.88 $450.35 $478.62 $118.91 TX WILSON Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 19 $202.34 $344.83 $683.48 $464.34 $493.50 $122.60 TX WILSON Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.41 $235.88 $467.54 $317.64 $337.58 $83.87 TX WILSON Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 19 $138.38 $235.83 $467.44 $317.57 $337.50 $83.85 TX WILSON Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 5750 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $190.00 $323.00 $640.00 $435.00 $462.00 $115.00 TX WILSON Bronze Aetna Aetna Advantage 6350 PPO Rating Area 19 $178.00 $303.00 $600.00 $408.00 $434.00 $108.00 TX WILSON Bronze Aetna Aetna AdvantagePlus 5500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $184.00 $314.00 $622.00 $423.00 $450.00 $112.00 TX WILSON Catastrophic Aetna Aetna Basic PPO Rating Area 19 $135.00 $230.00 $456.00 $310.00 $328.00 $82.00 TX WILSON Gold Aetna Aetna Premier 2000 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $262.00 $447.00 $886.00 $602.00 $640.00 $159.00 TX WILSON Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 3500 PD PPO Rating Area 19 $239.00 $408.00 $808.00 $549.00 $584.00 $145.00 TX WILSON Silver Aetna Aetna Classic 5000 PPO Rating Area 19 $220.00 $375.00 $742.00 $504.00 $536.00 $133.00 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 001 PPO Rating Area 26 $291.68 $497.08 $985.24 $669.35 $711.38 $176.73 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Gold PPO 002 PPO Rating Area 26 $298.30 $508.37 $1,007.64 $684.57 $727.54 $180.75 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 003 PPO Rating Area 26 $241.29 $411.21 $815.04 $553.72 $588.50 $146.20 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Silver PPO 004 PPO Rating Area 26 $248.89 $424.15 $840.70 $571.15 $607.02 $150.80 TX ZAPATA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 005 PPO Rating Area 26 $176.92 $301.51 $597.62 $406.01 $431.50 $107.20 TX ZAPATA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Choice Bronze PPO 006 PPO Rating Area 26 $174.96 $298.17 $591.00 $401.51 $426.72 $106.01 TX ZAPATA Catastrophic Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Security Choice PPO 010 PPO Rating Area 26 $172.37 $293.75 $582.24 $395.56 $420.40 $104.44 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 1, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $310.27 $528.75 $1,048.04 $712.02 $756.72 $188.00 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Premier 2, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $303.57 $517.34 $1,025.42 $696.65 $740.38 $183.94 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 3, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $243.93 $415.70 $823.96 $559.78 $594.92 $147.80 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Solution 4, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $233.01 $397.10 $787.06 $534.71 $568.30 $141.18 TX ZAPATA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Cross Blue Shield Basic 5, a Multi-State Plan PPO Rating Area 26 $183.88 $313.37 $621.14 $421.99 $448.48 $111.42 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 001 HMO Rating Area 26 $231.86 $395.14 $783.20 $532.09 $565.50 $140.49 TX ZAPATA Gold Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Gold HMO 002 HMO Rating Area 26 $237.69 $405.07 $802.88 $545.46 $579.72 $144.02 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 003 HMO Rating Area 26 $188.91 $321.94 $638.10 $433.51 $460.74 $114.46 TX ZAPATA Silver Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Silver HMO 004 HMO Rating Area 26 $194.78 $331.94 $657.94 $446.99 $475.06 $118.02 TX ZAPATA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 005 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.24 $227.07 $450.06 $305.76 $324.96 $80.73 TX ZAPATA Bronze Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas Blue Advantage Bronze HMO 006 HMO Rating Area 26 $133.21 $227.01 $449.96 $305.69 $324.88 $80.71 Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State CONNECT WITH US Washington D.C. Office 2431 Rayburn HOB Washington, DC 20515 phone: 202-225-1640 fax: 202-225-1641 San Antonio Office 615 E. Houston Street, Suite 563 San Antonio, Texas 78205 phone: (210)271-2851 fax: (210) 277-6671 toll free: 1 (877) 780-0028 Laredo Office 602 E. Calton Road, Suite 2 Laredo, Texas 78041 phone: (956) 725-0639 fax: (956) 725-2647 Rio Grande Office 100 N. F.M. 3167 Rio Grande City, Texas 78582 phone: (956) 487-5603 fax: (956) 488-0952 Mission Office 117 E. Tom Landry Mission, Texas 78572 phone: (956) 424-3942 fax: (956) 424-3936 Click Here to view this email in your browser Click Here to be removed from this list
10.10.2013	“Today, I stood with more than 40 of my colleagues to call for an end to finger pointing between Republicans and Democrats and a start to consensus building. This is a time for elected officials here in Washington to do what we came here for – sit down with our colleagues, use common sense, and find a compromise that benefits the country. As representatives of the American people, we came to Washington to reach consensus and make life better for the majority of Americans – not halt the government and put global markets in crisis because we disagree. Congressman Cuellar stands with colleagues as part of the No Labels – Stop Fighting, Start Fixing Event I am encouraged by the recent moves by the President to meet with members of both the Democratic and Republican caucuses in the House of Representatives to begin discussing how we can move forward. I am similarly encouraged by Speaker Boehner’s announcement today that he will introduce a temporary extension of the debt ceiling to allow the American government to fulfill our financial obligations and maintain a stable global economy. I hope that this proposal will provide time for Republicans and Democrats to work out our differences and propose a common sense solution that addresses our ongoing fiscal issues.” Congressman Cuellar appears with more than 40 colleagues from across the aisle as part of the No Labels – Stop Fighting, Start Fixing Event
10.08.2013	Dear Friends, This week, I announced $2,703,707 in federal funds to the Laredo International Airport along with Mayor Pro Tempore Juan Narvaez, District V Council Member Roque Vela, Jr., City Manager Carlos Villarreal, and International Airport Manager Jose Flores. These funds were awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration to construct perimeter security fencing, acquire safety equipment, and improve the terminal building. Security is an essential facet to maintain effective and progressive airport operations. With this grant, multi-year funding will be used towards the replacement of existing chillers, upgrades to the airport's baggage handling system, and wildlife perimeter fencing to prevent any inadvertent entry or wildlife hazards. Sincerely, Congressman Henry Cuellar
10.01.2013	Veterans, small business owners applying for a federal loan, and companies importing or exporting goods are being harmed today because their calls will go unanswered and their paperwork will be delayed all due to an unnecessary and unacceptable government shutdown. Federal workforce should not suffer the consequences of the House and Senate’s inability to govern. I am with you and your families, I know that you are all hard working government employees and we must do everything we can to get you back to work as soon as possible. I will support back pay for those federal workers who have to support their families, pay mortgages, and put food on the table. From those that secure our borders to those who care for our veterans, the service that federal workers provide to the American public is invaluable. I have fought against the shutdown and called for a clean Continuing Resolution to continue government operations while the two Houses work on passing appropriations bills. Today, I signed on as a co-sponsor to H.R. 3223, a bill that would make sure all furloughed federal workers affected by the shutdown receive any pay they missed while out on furlough. This is very serious for many families. We're talking about families who won't be able to pay for daycare or their house note. I will stay here in Washington until we resolve this.
09.30.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the effects of a potential government shutdown: “A government shutdown will put millions of Americans and over 140,000 federal employees in Texas out of work when we are still recovering from the worst economic recession since the Great Depression,” said Congressman Cuellar. “While Social Security checks will continue and essential governmental services that provide for our national security will remain active – the individuals who carry out these services will do so without any promise of a paycheck. However, nearly every other employee from many federal agencies will not be reporting to work tomorrow - such as Agriculture, Education, HUD, Interior, and DOT departments. Border Patrol will stop hiring new agents, no gun permits will be processed, and visas will be delayed. The impact will be immediately felt, and will have long-lasting damage. The Department of Defense estimates that during a shutdown nearly half of the civilian workforce would be sent home without pay, while the rest would continue to work for delayed pay, impacting the 51,621 civilian workers in Texas. 184,230 service members in Texas would remain on duty, but would see their pay delayed if the shutdown extends for more than 10 days. A shutdown could delay financial support for Texas’s small businesses. According to the SBA, Texas is home to 389,129 small businesses and a shutdown would halt the SBA’s flagship 7(a) and 504 loans. Veterans’ benefits could be delayed, affecting Texas’s more than 1,600,000 veterans. It could also force Head Start programs around the country to close, including an estimated 1,600 agencies in Texas that serve over 950,000 children. The Senate accepted the House GOP’s budget cuts, however the House GOP is demanding our federal budget be the place to have a debate about unrelated policy. I am ready and willing to have a debate on the budget, and our federal spending, and revisions to the Affordable Care Act, but closing the federal government over a law that was passed by both Chambers of Congress, signed by the President, upheld by the Supreme Court, and finally reaffirmed in the 2012 election is irresponsible and greatly damaging to our economy.” For more information on the government shutdown, please visit: USA Today, "66 questions and answers about the government shutdown," September 29, 2013 Congressional Research Service Report, "Shutdown of the Federal Government: Causes, Processes, and Effects," September 25, 2013 Washington Post, "Absolutely everything you need to know about how the government shutdown will work," September 30, 2013
09.28.2013	Today, the Republican Leadership brought another Continuing Resolution to the Floor that places politics over policy and sends the CR back to the Senate for consideration. We should be focused on passing a budget that funds the government, not voting for the 43rd time on a pointless exercise to repeal or defund the healthcare law. As an appropriator, it is very problematic for me to see how little focus there has been on the actual issues of how and at what level we fund our government. Congress has two responsibilities: to pass a budget on time and pay our bills on time. A CBS poll this week found that 80% of Americans think it is inappropriate to shut down the government to achieve goals during budget negotiations. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce released a joint letter representing 236 organizations urging the House to pass a continuing resolution and ensure uninterrupted funding of the government. The Wall Street Journal called the Republican strategy a “kamikaze mission,” that would not turn out well. This vote on discretionary spending will not stop the Affordable Care Act, which is funded almost entirely through mandatory spending, according to a Congressional Research Service report requested by Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK). Even Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said so in August (“I’m all for stopping Obamacare, but shutting down the government will not stop Obamacare,” The Hill 08/13/13). Senators McCain (R-AZ), Senator Coburn (R-OK), and Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK) have also voiced opposition to a strategy that uses political brinkmanship and pushes us towards a government shutdown on October 1st. The Affordable Care Act was passed by both sides of Congress, signed by the President, and ruled constitutional by the highest court in the nation. President Obama was reelected by American voters who knew he would implement the Affordable Care Act in his second term. Portions of the act have already been implemented – including popular ones such as preventative services for seniors, allowing Americans up to age of 26 to stay on parents’ plan, and stopping insurance companies from denying coverage to those with pre-existing conditions. The district I represent in Texas has one of the highest rates of uninsured Americans in the country. In Hidalgo County, 38.1% of individuals are uninsured. In Webb County, the number is 36.8% and in Starr County, it is 35.8%. And in the State of Texas, 6.1 million people or 23% percent of the population are uninsured, including 1.2 million children. For the first time, the Affordable Care Act will provide many of the constituents of the 28th District with access to affordable, quality health care. These continuing resolutions are harming our economy. A government shutdown would deny pay to nearly 1.4 million active duty military personnel, put on hold housing loans to low and middle income families in rural areas and start up business loans for farmers and ranchers, and force taxpayers to shell out $150 million a day to pay for losses. We should not continue to kick the can down the road. Congress needs to take real steps to solve our budget uncertainty on a long term basis, not create a situation where every few months the Republican Majority manufactures a crisis that threatens to shutdown the government. It is bad for Wall Street and it is bad for Main Street.”
09.25.2013	On Wednesday, September 25th, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released cost estimates of premiums for the State of Texas under the Health Insurance Marketplace that opens on October 1st. Texas consumers will be able to choose from an average of 54 health plans in the Marketplace. The statewide average premium in Texas for the lowest-cost silver plan will be $287 and for the lowest cost bronze plan it will be $211. However, these premiums will be significantly lower across the 28th District of Texas. The HHS report provides estimates for the 25 largest metro areas in the 36 states that have not selected to run their own exchanges. Two are in the 28th District of Texas: In McAllen-Edinberg-Pharr-Mission, TX, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $99 per month for the lowest cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest cost silver plan, taking into account tax credits. For a family of four in McAllen-Edinberg-Pharr-Mission, TX with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $117 per month. And McAllen-Edinberg-Pharr-Mission consumers will be able to choose from among 30 qualified health plans. In San Antonio, TX, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $87 per month for the lowest cost bronze plan and $145 per month for the second lowest cost silver plan, taking into account tax credits. For a family of four in San Antonio, TX with an income of $50,000 per year, the lowest bronze plan would cost only $73 per month. And San Antonio consumers will be able to choose from among 58 qualified health plans. “Affordable healthcare coverage is about peace of mind and personal financial responsibility,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “In the 28th District of Texas, over 30% of residents do not have access to health insurance. The opening of the healthcare marketplace and the ability to choose among different options for affordable health insurance will change many of lives in a profound way. No longer will fear of an accident, potential for illness, or the even the desire to receive basic preventive care threaten to derail the financial security of millions of Texas families. I applaud the announcement by the Department of Health and Human Services and encourage every resident of the 28th District to take full advantage of his or her options.” For more information regarding heath coverage, visit HealthCare.gov, or cuidadodesalud.gov or call 1-800-318-2596 toll free (TTY: 1-855-889-4325)
09.24.2013	Floresville, Texas – On Tuesday, September 24th,Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) presented $826,127 in federal funds to the Frank Tejeda Veterans’ Home in Floresville. Congressman Cuellar presenting over $800k in federal funds to the Frank Tejeda Veterans Home in Floresville, Texas The Department of Veterans Affairs awarded these funds through the State of Texas’s Veterans Land Board to support the renovation and construction of a new ventilation system and kitchen for the establishment. Congressman Cuellar with Wilson County Sheriff Joe D. Tackitt, Jr. “More than 1.8 million veterans call Texas home, with over 43,000 in the 28th District of Texas alone,” said Congressman Cuellar. “There is a long tradition of federal and state cooperation in order to give back to our veterans. Through these funds, veterans in the State of Texas and their families will continue to receive the assistance they deserve in facilities equipped to sustain their everyday needs. I would like to thank Texas Veterans Land Board –State Veterans Home Program Commissioner Kevin Warren and the Frank M. Tejeda Veterans Home Administrator Peter Porras for securing these funds in support of the advancement and maintenance of the State Veterans' Home in Floresville." Congressman Cuellar with Precinct 2 Justice of the Peace Judge Sara Canady This is one out of the four renovation projects the Texas Veterans Land Board (TVLB) is financially assisting as part of the TVLB’s 2013 Veterans Affairs grant projects. Facilities such as this were built through a partnership between the TVLB and VA to contract professional long-term health care providers to provide affordable, long-term nursing care for Texas veterans, their spouses and Gold Star parents.
09.20.2013	Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement regarding the House vote on H.J. Res59, the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014: “Today I voted against the 2014 Continuing Appropriations Resolution, a bill that threatens to push us towards a government shutdown at the end of the fiscal year on September 30th. Instead of sitting down with Democrats to work out our differences, the House Majority Leadership has decided to move forward with a bill that is essentially dead-upon-arrival in the Senate because of its provision to defund the Affordable Care Act. This bill is another example of how partisan politics and a focus on one issue have derailed one of the most important functions of our government. During my time in the Texas State Legislature, the appropriations bill was the most important piece of legislation and, accordingly, we spent the most time on it. Here in Washington, we don’t have real conversations about the budget, instead allowing politics to take the place of policy. The continuation of the sequester and the provision in the CR that defunds the Affordable Care Act would be devastating to the 28th District of Texas. Over 30% of the taxpayers living in TX28 are uninsured a defunding of the Affordable Care Act would deny them vital coverage. The people this provision hits are hardest are some of our most vulnerable – seniors, people with disabilities, children, and pregnant women. At a time when we should be focusing on job growth, this bill cuts crucial investments in education programs like Heat Starts and job-creating transportation projects in highways, transit, railways, bridges, and ports. I hope the coming days as we approach October 1st provide an opportunity for Democrats and Republicans to work together on what is annually the most important piece of legislation for our country. It is a shame that we have waited until the last minute to begin this process.”
09.19.2013	On Thursday, September 19th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) shared remarks with Congressman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA25), at the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus 2013 Science and Technology Fair. The annual event featured booth exhibitions conducted by universities, industry representatives, and federal agencies, such as US Geological Survey, Customs and Border Protection, and NASA. Unmanned systems could become a $13.6 billion national industry in the next three years, according to the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International. The Science and Technology Fair serves to further educate members of Congress, industry stakeholders, and the public on unmanned systems and how they contribute to the defense, intelligence, homeland security, law enforcement, and scientific communities. Congressman Cuellar views a quadcopter with representatives from Texas A&M University Corpus Christi at the Unmanned Systems and Caucus 2013 Science and Technology Fair. “As a Congressman representing a number of communities along the U.S.-Mexico border, I have gained a deep knowledge and appreciation of the uses of unmanned systems,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “These cutting-edge technological resources provide an efficient and effective method to protect our borders and have shown to be an asset in multiple fields. Whether it is for law enforcement, detecting forest wildfires, or even gathering vital information on incoming hurricanes and tropical storms, unmanned systems benefit our communities. In addition, unmanned systems provide a burgeoning sector of growth for our economy and additional employment opportunities for our nation.” “The beneficial applications of unmanned systems are virtually limitless,” said Congressman McKeon. “Just weeks ago we saw the invaluable contribution these systems made to the efforts to control and extinguish the raging wildfires in California’s Yosemite National Park. Firefighting capability is just one of the many significant positive contributions unmanned systems can provide. As the technology develops, it is important that law makers work alongside industry leaders to ensure the proper and comprehensive development, growth and implementation of this new field. I am proud of the work the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus continues to do in this area, especially in its work regarding education on the immeasurable value that unmanned systems can provide to defense, intelligence, homeland security, law enforcement, and scientific communities. Over the last year the unmanned systems industry has seen significant growth and awareness across all aspects of air, ground, and maritime environments, and it is my hope that this fair will allow industry leaders and Members of Congress to come together to discuss these advancements, as well as the future possibilities for this invaluable field.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State.
09.19.2013	On Thursday, September 19th, Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement regarding his vote against HR 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act. “Today, I voted against HR 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act, a bill that would cut $40 billion from nutrition assistance programs and deny Supplemental Nutrition and Assistance Programs (otherwise known as SNAP) benefits to at least four million low-income Americans. This bill will cause over 14 million Americans will lose SNAP benefits, which pay for school lunches for kids, provide benefits to veterans, and support the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families fund. For the last 40 years, the Farm Bill has been a partnership between rural and urban America, between those who produce our food and the communities that provide a market for that food. Rather than following a proven model of bipartisan cooperation, the House GOP leadership has decided to cede control of the House floor to the most extreme wing of their caucus. I urge the Majority Leadership of the House of Representatives to instead take up the Senate version of the farm bill, S 954. This bill makes practical and reasonable reforms to the SNAP program while still providing nutrition funding and protecting the most vulnerable Americans.”
09.18.2013	SPEECH OF HON. HENRY CUELLAR OF TEXAS IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 18, 2013 Mister Speaker, I rise today to recognize San Antonio Journalist Monica Navarro, an award recipient of the San Antonio Association of Hispanic Journalists - Henry Guerra Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Journalism. For 30 years, Monica has been a reporter and anchor for San Antonio’s Univision Channel 41, and her name has become synonymous with community news. Before joining Univision in 1983, she worked in Mexico City for seven years as a national sports reporter and anchor. A two-time Emmy Award winner, Monica was named the 2003 National Journalist of the Year by the Hispanic Media Awards. Over the years, she has reported on stories that have a direct impact into people's lives, becoming a reliable source for Latino news. As a result of a California Endowment Health Journalism Fellowship at the University of Southern California, she produced an award winning four-part project titled, "El Peso de la Obesidad," which focused on the impact of obesity and diabetes on the Latino community. She now has a crucial health segment in the newscast called “Reforma de Salud” to inform the Hispanic community about the recent health reform. I am honored and pleased to have had this time to recognize Monica Navarro on her career and community involvement. She has contributed her time, knowledge, and efforts to journalism and to serving her community.
09.15.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement regarding the ongoing situation in Syria: “This weekend, the United States and Russia reached a framework agreement to secure and destroy Syria's chemical stockpile. As part of this agreement, Syria will be required to submit to inspections of all chemical weapons sites and eliminate all chemical weapons materials and mixing equipment by mid-2014. The destruction process will be carried out by the international community, including the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Syria has also indicated that it will join the international arms-control organization, the Chemical Weapons Convention. This is a hopeful step forward and I am encouraged to see that the Administration has reached a preliminary diplomatic solution to the ongoing crisis. If executed correctly, this plan should avert the need for any military action on the part of the United States. As Americans are weary of years of war and military engagement in the Middle East, I urge the Administration to do its utmost to ensure that this diplomatic effort succeeds the while still ensuring that the Syrian regime complies with its obligations under international law.”
09.13.2013	Laredo, TX. – Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX/28) presented $300,000 in federal funds in support of a collaborative partnership between the Webb County Sheriff’s Office and Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter. In attendance were Webb County Judge Danny Valdez, Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar and Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter Director Sister Rosemary Welsh. “Victims of domestic violence sustain not only physical, but mental abuse from their perpetrators,” said Congressman Cuellar.”I strongly believe that advocating feasible outlets and resources for these victims to continue their lives with the absence of fear is one of the many reasons that we as community should support the efforts being made through this partnership. The judicial and social assistance this grant provides will ensure the Webb County Sheriff’s Office and the Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter will continue to provide these victims with supportive services and inspire current victims to reach out and attain the protection they undoubtedly deserve.” Congressman Cuellar addressing attendees at the Department of Justice Office on Violence Against Women Grant Award Press Conference These funds were derived from the Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program under the Department of Justice’s Office of Violence against Women. “I want to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his diligent efforts in allocating these funds. The success of Casa de Misericordia is not only possible by grants and volunteers, but also by the dedication of commitment from Sister Rosemary Welsh in conjunction with our Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. " The Arrest Program being supported by these funds aim to provide a safe environment for victims of domestic abuse, as well as accountability and justice for their perpetrators. Issues such as domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking are all pertinent to the services this partnership will provide. In addition, the program aspires to enhance and encourage certain jurisdictions to implement pro-arrest policies, in order to coordinate an effective community response. (Featured from L-R): Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, Webb County Sheriff’s Office Grant Writer Anita L. Guerra, Congressman Henry Cuellar, Assistant Chief Pedro Arredondo, Webb County Judge Danny Valdez, Casa de Misericordia Board Member Paty Figuerroa, Cassa de Misericordia Director Sister Rosemary Welsh, Justice of the Peace Oscar Liendo, Webb County Commissioner for Precinct 2 Rosaura “Wawi” Tijerina and Webb County Sheriff’s Office Commander J.J. Rendon “This grant will allow us to continue with the mission of the Sheriff’s Office of assisting and protecting women and their children who have been victims of domestic violence. We all know that this crime does not discriminate, and this is why we are doing everything we can to let victims know that they must report it immediately,” said Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for all his efforts in helping ensure these much needed funds made their way to Webb County.” The implementation of this project will enhance investigations of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking incidents for underserved populations in Webb County. Furthermore, the Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter will continue to sustain their legal advocacy and community outreach efforts. “Domestic violence is an issue that will stop only when the entire community comes together and commits to creating change,” said Casa de Misericordia Domestic Violence Shelter Director, Sister Rosemary Welsh. “Casa de Misericordia is privileged to collaborate with the Webb County Sheriff’s Office to improve our community’s response to domestic violence. With the support of the U.S. Department of Justice – Office on Violence Against Women and their recognition that domestic violence is a serious issue, Casa de Misericordia looks forward to continuing this partnership in making Webb County a safe place for all families.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Previously, he served as a Texas State Representative and Texas Secretary of State. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, or YouTube Channel
09.11.2013	Congressman Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement after President Obama’s remarks to the nation on potential U.S. involvement in Syria: “I am encouraged by President Obama’s decision to postpone his call for a vote by Congress on the use of military force in Syria. Our nation has been at war for over a decade and I think Americans are wary of expending our financial resources and possibly risking lives in another military action. We need to exhaust all diplomatic solutions, but the reality is that if the threat of American military action had not been on the table, we likely would not be in a position to pursue a diplomatic course that both takes an inventory of Assad's stockpile of chemical weapons, and ends the use of those weapons. To paraphrase former President Ronald Reagan, I ask the Administration to ‘trust, but verify’. I will be keeping a close eye on the developments in the near future to make certain that we have a workable solution to the question of chemical weapons in Syria." The full text of President Obama’s address may be found below: THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ For Immediate Release September 10, 2013 REMARKS BY THE PRESIDENT IN ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON SYRIA East Room 9:01 P.M. EDT THE PRESIDENT: My fellow Americans, tonight I want to talk to you about Syria -- why it matters, and where we go from here. Over the past two years, what began as a series of peaceful protests against the repressive regime of Bashar al-Assad has turned into a brutal civil war. Over 100,000 people have been killed. Millions have fled the country. In that time, America has worked with allies to provide humanitarian support, to help the moderate opposition, and to shape a political settlement. But I have resisted calls for military action, because we cannot resolve someone else’s civil war through force, particularly after a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan. The situation profoundly changed, though, on August 21st, when Assad’s government gassed to death over a thousand people, including hundreds of children. The images from this massacre are sickening: Men, women, children lying in rows, killed by poison gas. Others foaming at the mouth, gasping for breath. A father clutching his dead children, imploring them to get up and walk. On that terrible night, the world saw in gruesome detail the terrible nature of chemical weapons, and why the overwhelming majority of humanity has declared them off-limits -- a crime against humanity, and a violation of the laws of war. This was not always the case. In World War I, American GIs were among the many thousands killed by deadly gas in the trenches of Europe. In World War II, the Nazis used gas to inflict the horror of the Holocaust. Because these weapons can kill on a mass scale, with no distinction between soldier and infant, the civilized world has spent a century working to ban them. And in 1997, the United States Senate overwhelmingly approved an international agreement prohibiting the use of chemical weapons, now joined by 189 governments that represent 98 percent of humanity. On August 21st, these basic rules were violated, along with our sense of common humanity. No one disputes that chemical weapons were used in Syria. The world saw thousands of videos, cell phone pictures, and social media accounts from the attack, and humanitarian organizations told stories of hospitals packed with people who had symptoms of poison gas. Moreover, we know the Assad regime was responsible. In the days leading up to August 21st, we know that Assad’s chemical weapons personnel prepared for an attack near an area where they mix sarin gas. They distributed gasmasks to their troops. Then they fired rockets from a regime-controlled area into 11 neighborhoods that the regime has been trying to wipe clear of opposition forces. Shortly after those rockets landed, the gas spread, and hospitals filled with the dying and the wounded. We know senior figures in Assad’s military machine reviewed the results of the attack, and the regime increased their shelling of the same neighborhoods in the days that followed. We’ve also studied samples of blood and hair from people at the site that tested positive for sarin. When dictators commit atrocities, they depend upon the world to look the other way until those horrifying pictures fade from memory. But these things happened. The facts cannot be denied. The question now is what the United States of America, and the international community, is prepared to do about it. Because what happened to those people -- to those children -- is not only a violation of international law, it’s also a danger to our security. Let me explain why. If we fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons. As the ban against these weapons erodes, other tyrants will have no reason to think twice about acquiring poison gas, and using them. Over time, our troops would again face the prospect of chemical warfare on the battlefield. And it could be easier for terrorist organizations to obtain these weapons, and to use them to attack civilians. If fighting spills beyond Syria’s borders, these weapons could threaten allies like Turkey, Jordan, and Israel. And a failure to stand against the use of chemical weapons would weaken prohibitions against other weapons of mass destruction, and embolden Assad’s ally, Iran -- which must decide whether to ignore international law by building a nuclear weapon, or to take a more peaceful path. This is not a world we should accept. This is what’s at stake. And that is why, after careful deliberation, I determined that it is in the national security interests of the United States to respond to the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons through a targeted military strike. The purpose of this strike would be to deter Assad from using chemical weapons, to degrade his regime’s ability to use them, and to make clear to the world that we will not tolerate their use. That's my judgment as Commander-in-Chief. But I’m also the President of the world’s oldest constitutional democracy. So even though I possess the authority to order military strikes, I believed it was right, in the absence of a direct or imminent threat to our security, to take this debate to Congress. I believe our democracy is stronger when the President acts with the support of Congress. And I believe that America acts more effectively abroad when we stand together. This is especially true after a decade that put more and more war-making power in the hands of the President, and more and more burdens on the shoulders of our troops, while sidelining the people’s representatives from the critical decisions about when we use force. Now, I know that after the terrible toll of Iraq and Afghanistan, the idea of any military action, no matter how limited, is not going to be popular. After all, I've spent four and a half years working to end wars, not to start them. Our troops are out of Iraq. Our troops are coming home from Afghanistan. And I know Americans want all of us in Washington -- especially me -- to concentrate on the task of building our nation here at home: putting people back to work, educating our kids, growing our middle class. It’s no wonder, then, that you're asking hard questions. So let me answer some of the most important questions that I've heard from members of Congress, and that I've read in letters that you've sent to me. First, many of you have asked, won’t this put us on a slippery slope to another war? One man wrote to me that we are “still recovering from our involvement in Iraq.” A veteran put it more bluntly: “This nation is sick and tired of war.” My answer is simple: I will not put American boots on the ground in Syria. I will not pursue an open-ended action like Iraq or Afghanistan. I will not pursue a prolonged air campaign like Libya or Kosovo. This would be a targeted strike to achieve a clear objective: deterring the use of chemical weapons, and degrading Assad’s capabilities. Others have asked whether it's worth acting if we don’t take out Assad. As some members of Congress have said, there’s no point in simply doing a “pinprick” strike in Syria. Let me make something clear: The United States military doesn’t do pinpricks. Even a limited strike will send a message to Assad that no other nation can deliver. I don't think we should remove another dictator with force -- we learned from Iraq that doing so makes us responsible for all that comes next. But a targeted strike can make Assad, or any other dictator, think twice before using chemical weapons. Other questions involve the dangers of retaliation. We don’t dismiss any threats, but the Assad regime does not have the ability to seriously threaten our military. Any other retaliation they might seek is in line with threats that we face every day. Neither Assad nor his allies have any interest in escalation that would lead to his demise. And our ally, Israel, can defend itself with overwhelming force, as well as the unshakeable support of the United States of America. Many of you have asked a broader question: Why should we get involved at all in a place that's so complicated, and where -- as one person wrote to me -- “those who come after Assad may be enemies of human rights?” It’s true that some of Assad’s opponents are extremists. But al Qaeda will only draw strength in a more chaotic Syria if people there see the world doing nothing to prevent innocent civilians from being gassed to death. The majority of the Syrian people -- and the Syrian opposition we work with -- just want to live in peace, with dignity and freedom. And the day after any military action, we would redouble our efforts to achieve a political solution that strengthens those who reject the forces of tyranny and extremism. Finally, many of you have asked: Why not leave this to other countries, or seek solutions short of force? As several people wrote to me, “We should not be the world’s policeman.” I agree, and I have a deeply held preference for peaceful solutions. Over the last two years, my administration has tried diplomacy and sanctions, warning and negotiations -- but chemical weapons were still used by the Assad regime. However, over the last few days, we’ve seen some encouraging signs. In part because of the credible threat of U.S. military action, as well as constructive talks that I had with President Putin, the Russian government has indicated a willingness to join with the international community in pushing Assad to give up his chemical weapons. The Assad regime has now admitted that it has these weapons, and even said they’d join the Chemical Weapons Convention, which prohibits their use. It’s too early to tell whether this offer will succeed, and any agreement must verify that the Assad regime keeps its commitments. But this initiative has the potential to remove the threat of chemical weapons without the use of force, particularly because Russia is one of Assad’s strongest allies. I have, therefore, asked the leaders of Congress to postpone a vote to authorize the use of force while we pursue this diplomatic path. I’m sending Secretary of State John Kerry to meet his Russian counterpart on Thursday, and I will continue my own discussions with President Putin. I’ve spoken to the leaders of two of our closest allies, France and the United Kingdom, and we will work together in consultation with Russia and China to put forward a resolution at the U.N. Security Council requiring Assad to give up his chemical weapons, and to ultimately destroy them under international control. We’ll also give U.N. inspectors the opportunity to report their findings about what happened on August 21st. And we will continue to rally support from allies from Europe to the Americas -- from Asia to the Middle East -- who agree on the need for action. Meanwhile, I’ve ordered our military to maintain their current posture to keep the pressure on Assad, and to be in a position to respond if diplomacy fails. And tonight, I give thanks again to our military and their families for their incredible strength and sacrifices. My fellow Americans, for nearly seven decades, the United States has been the anchor of global security. This has meant doing more than forging international agreements -- it has meant enforcing them. The burdens of leadership are often heavy, but the world is a better place because we have borne them. And so, to my friends on the right, I ask you to reconcile your commitment to America’s military might with a failure to act when a cause is so plainly just. To my friends on the left, I ask you to reconcile your belief in freedom and dignity for all people with those images of children writhing in pain, and going still on a cold hospital floor. For sometimes resolutions and statements of condemnation are simply not enough. Indeed, I’d ask every member of Congress, and those of you watching at home tonight, to view those videos of the attack, and then ask: What kind of world will we live in if the United States of America sees a dictator brazenly violate international law with poison gas, and we choose to look the other way? Franklin Roosevelt once said, “Our national determination to keep free of foreign wars and foreign entanglements cannot prevent us from feeling deep concern when ideals and principles that we have cherished are challenged.” Our ideals and principles, as well as our national security, are at stake in Syria, along with our leadership of a world where we seek to ensure that the worst weapons will never be used. America is not the world’s policeman. Terrible things happen across the globe, and it is beyond our means to right every wrong. But when, with modest effort and risk, we can stop children from being gassed to death, and thereby make our own children safer over the long run, I believe we should act. That’s what makes America different. That’s what makes us exceptional. With humility, but with resolve, let us never lose sight of that essential truth. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.
09.06.2013	On September 6th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), along with Texas A&M International University President Dr. Ray Keck, presented a total of $1,516,498.00 in federal funds to TAMIU STEM Program. Nine of the 10 fastest-growing occupations that require at least a bachelor’s degree will require significant scientific or mathematical training. With these grants, TAMIU will help tap into this resource by increasing financial support for minority STEM students, improving teacher quality and preparation, and providing teachers and students with increased opportunities for research. Congressman Cuellar listens to speakers during the presentation of federal funds to TAMIU’s STEM programs Congressman Cuellar addresses the need for increased funding for STEM programs and congratulates TAMIU on receiving more than $1.5 million in federal funds Congressman Henry Cuellar presents more than $1.5 million in federal funds to Texas A&M International University for Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics programs. “The United States has one of the lowest rates of graduation in STEM fields among developed countries,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “We face a severe shortage of technical talent in the United States that causes our economy to lose out on valuable opportunities for growth. Our students are our greatest untapped resources in combating the trend. I commend the efforts TAMIU has expended to bring more resources for science and technology education and will continue to advocate for similar resources at the federal level.” The three grants from the National Science Foundation include: 1. A $1,199,971.00 award from the Robert Noyce Mathematics Teacher Scholarship Program. 2. A $274,900.00 award from the Major Research Instrumentation Program as well as 3. An additional award of $41,627.00 from the Major Research Instrumentation Program
09.05.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX/28) helped cast the national education spotlight on South Texas during a lively discussion at Texas A&M International University that sought to create new educational opportunities for Hispanics. The event took place with leaders from the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics (WHIEEH) and who traveled through South and West Texas as part of the Back to School Texas Tour 2013. Congressman Cuellar reminded the audience that though Hispanics are the nation’s fastest growing minority group, their educational attainment is the lowest of any U.S. demographic. The Congressman highlighted efforts in his hometown of Laredo by Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) and Laredo Community College (LCC) to turn the educational tide in favor of Hispanics. Congressman Henry Cuellar, White House Initiative Executive Director Alejandra Ceja, and Deputy Director Marco Davis greet Dr. Marcus Nelson, Superintendent of Laredo Independent School District (LISD) “I understand the challenges families face in striving to provide their children with a high quality education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Fortunately for us in Laredo, Texas A&M International University is an institution that recognizes the unique challenges faced by Hispanics, especially their underrepresentation in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) fields. I applaud TAMIU and LCC’s commitment to providing a comprehensive and competitive education for all students, with a support system tailored to their needs and educational aspirations. I thank the White House initiative for rightly highlighting Laredo as being on the frontlines of this struggle nationwide.” The White House-sponsored tour through Texas served as a kick-off for the U.S. Department of Education’s “Strong Start, Bright Future” Bus Tour that begins September 9th in Santa Fe, New Mexico. The tour will continue through the U.S. Southwest and end in Southern California on September 13th. Congressman Henry Cuellar, Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) President Dr. Ray M. Keck, TAMIU College of Education Dean Dr. Catheryn Weitman, speaking with WHIEEH executive director Ceja and Deputy Director Davis “We are grateful to Congressman Cuellar for his unwavering support of TAMIU and for his solid partnership in securing numerous grants for us over the years including these three from the National Science Foundation (NSF),” said Dr. Ray Keck, TAMIU President. “As we continue to work to increase the number of students pursuing degrees in STEM fields, these grant programs will help us prepare dynamic math teachers in our community as well as foster various educational and research opportunities for both students and faculty.” WHIEEH leaders looked to use the event in Laredo not only share President Obama’s vision of the future of education in America, but also to get feedback from community leaders and stakeholders to shape education policy in Washington.
09.04.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX-28) presented a $1,560,000 federal grant to Serving Children and Adults in Need (SCAN), Inc., a Laredo-based non-profit organization that fosters healthy development for children and families. The grant will fund a new program, “Mujeres Sanas en la Frontera,” or “Healthy Women on the Border,” that will benefit women in Webb County. The goal of the program is to provide culturally informed care to an at-risk population along the U.S.-Mexico border. In attendance at the check presentation was Chief Executive Officer Isela S. Dabdoub. Congressman Cuellar presented over $1.5 million in federal funds to SCAN: Serving Children and Adults in Need, a Laredo-based non-profit aimed at fostering healthy development in children and families. “SCAN plays a vital role in the health and well-being of women and families in Webb County,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With these funds, the program will have the means to educate, empower, and raise awareness to women in the region and give them the opportunity to attain quality health care for substance abuse, HIV/AIDS, and Hepatitis treatment. The efforts set forth by the project will promote recovery and prevent relapse and infections.” The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will award an annual grant of $520,000 starting September 1, 2013 and ending in August 2016. These funds come from the Center for Substance and Abuse Treatment (CSAT) through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to improve SCAN’s proposed program to improve access to care for adult Hispanic women. “With funding from SAMHSA-CSAT Serving Children and Adults in Need, Inc. is looking forward to implementing the “Mujeres Sanas en la Frontera” Program in Webb County,” said Chief Executive Office Isela S. Dabdoub. “This program will assist women who have substance abuse or co-occurring disorders and living with or at risk of HIV/AIDS and/or Hepatitis.”
08.31.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on President Obama’s decision to seek congressional approval for military action against Syria: “I applaud President Obama’s decision to seek congressional authorization for military action against Syria. I have called upon the President to take such an action over the past few days, and I am encouraged to see that the American people’s elected representatives in Congress will now have the opportunity to fully debate such a serious step,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The chemical weapons attack perpetrated against the citizens of Syria, including women and children, was a crime. It is now time for us to get the full facts, briefings, and intelligence reports. Only then can we make an informed and thoughtful decision as to whether we can support a limited strike with no on-the-ground deployment of combat troops.”
08.30.2013	Laredo, TX – On Thursday, August 29th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Laredo Catholic Bishop James Tamayo spoke in a town hall meeting on the need for Comprehensive Immigration Reform. Bishop Tamayo presented the Catholic Church’s position on immigration reform and encouraged audience members to actively advocating for reform, highlighting individual stories of immigrant families. Congressman Cuellar provided an update on the current status of legislation regarding immigration reform in the United States Congress and discussed the benefits immigration reform will bring to the United States economy. “As the son of migrant farm workers and lifelong resident of the border, I have seen first-hand the benefit immigrants from all over the world bring to our culture and our economy,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “Immigration is not a new phenomenon and it is one we are especially familiar with in South Texas. We must take advantage of the current momentum and desire for change to come to an agreement that includes a viable border security plan that limits the influx of illegal immigrants and legal visa overstays, a guest worker plan that provides an avenue for farm workers and high-skilled employees to benefit our economy, and a pathway to citizenship for the 11 to 12 million immigrants currently living in the shadows of illegal status.” Over 200 people attended the immigration town hall meeting at which Bishop Tamayo and Congressman Cuellar spoke. “Through prayer, and with this public discourse, we hope to bring Catholics and all people of goodwill together to find a human solution to our immigration crisis. The U.S. Bishops are united in the view that the status quo is unacceptable and that comprehensive immigration reform is needed," Bishop Tamayo said. Congressman Henry Cuellar speaks with Laredo Bishop James Tamayo on the need for immigration reform The event was open to the public and the media.
08.29.2013	On Wednesday, August 28th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28)’s grants coordinators, in association with the University of Texas Pan Am Rio South Texas Regional Procurement Technical Assistance Center, hosted a seminar providing resources for small business owners. The seminar offered an overview of the application process for contracts with federal, state, or local governments through the Small Business Administration 8(A) or Department of Housing and Urban Development Zone Programs. It provided an opportunity for trained counselors to answer questions from business owners in Laredo and the Rio Grande Valley and provide step-by step guidance for becoming a general contractor or sub-contractor participating on federal government contracts. “Small businesses and entrepreneurs are the lifeblood of our economy – the jobs and income they generate support families across the 28th District of Texas,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I encourage business owners and entrepreneurs to educate themselves about the opportunities available to do business with the government. I would like to thank Hector Landez from the UTPA Rio South Texas Regional Procurement Technical Assistance Center for making sure that the public is aware of the resources that are available.” Sean Smith presents guidance to small businesses in Webb County and the Rio Grande Valley on the process of applying for a contract with state or local governments. Presenters Sean Smith, Small Business Association Business Opportunity Specialist and Reynaldo Soto, UTPA Procurement Specialist
08.26.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX28) grants coordinators met with city and county officials in Webb and La Salle counties on August 19th through August 21st. The grants team assists individuals, businesses and organizations in applying for loans and grants from federal agencies such as, United States Department of Agriculture, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Department of Justice, among others. “We send a lot of tax dollars to DC and I want to bring back as much of that money as possible to invest in our local communities,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I will continue to work with the cities, counties, and businesses across TX28 to ensure that federal resources continue to be allocated to pressing local needs.” In their meetings with city, county, and university officials, Mary and Juan discussed pending grant proposals and future funding opportunities. For assistance with a federal grant or loan application, contact Juan Sanchez at juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov or 956-725-0639 or Mary Hinojosa at mary.hinojosa@mail.house.gov or 202-225-1640. Grants Tour Schedule: Monday, August 19th - Laredo Community College - Texas A&M International University Laredo Community College Texas A&M International University Office of Research and Sponsored Projects Tuesday, August 20th - Zapata County - Zapata Economic Development Corporation Zapata County Zapata Economic Development Corporation Wednesday, August 21st - City of Laredo - Laredo Chamber of Commerce - City of Encinal City of Laredo Laredo Chamber of Commerce City of Encinal
08.23.2013	On August 23rd in Laredo, TX, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) hosted the 8th Annual Border Health Conference in collaboration with the Border Health Caucus/Texas Medical Association. Previously hosted in Washington, DC, this is the first time the conference was held in Texas and on the border. “Communities along the border face a unique set of challenges in providing healthcare to their citizens,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The 32 counties that lie along our border with Mexico have among the highest levels of poverty, lack of insurance, diabetes, and obesity in the United States. At the same time, these communities are among the most underserved in the nation with one of the lowest rates of physicians per capita. If we can successfully find a way to address this disparity between needs and resources for our cities along the border, it will be a model for all underserved communities across our nation.” Featured L-R: City of Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, Vice Chairman of the Border Health Caucus Luis Benavides, M.D., Congressman Henry Cuellar, and Hilda Davila, General Director of International Relations, Mexico Health Secretariat - Mexico, D.F. "Congressman Henry Cuellar has given his adult life to public service and we are blessed in Laredo to have him represent us in Washington, D.C. He and his staff have worked with the doctors and leaders of the Border Health Caucus and the Texas Medical Association to bring a very important message to the state and the entire nation. It is a process...but we have been working the process for a long time...and strides have been made but there are so many more challenges in front of us. We urge all in health care to be a part of this event and learn, share and participate. It is going to be important for all of us," said Luis Benavides, M.D. of Laredo, Vice Chairman of the Border Health Caucus. "The Border of Mexico and Texas is unique and as aptly been described as a Country unto itself. Although we are proud Texans and Americans...our challenges are different but similar to West Texas, East Texas, and urban Texas...meaning that we attend to the poorest of the poor in Texas and the United States. But our challenge is often that we deal with patients from a different culture who often speak only Spanish. What happens along the Border will soon be happening all over the state," said Manuel Acosta, M.D. Chairman of the Border Health Caucus, sponsor of the Conference. Congressman Henry Cuellar addressing attendees of the 8th Annual Border Health Caucus in Laredo, Texas The Conference featured the following speakers: Congressman Henry Cuellar, US Representative for Texas’s 28th Congressional District Hilda Davila, General Director of International Relations, Mexico Health Secretariat - Mexico, D.F. Alfredo Rodriguez Trujillo, Director of Epidemiology, Tamaulipas State Health Services Hector Gonzales, MD, Director, City of Laredo Health Department Jose Luis Velasco, M.S.W., Executive Director, U.S. Section of the USMexico Border Health Commission Dr. Jeremias Guzman, Institute for Mexican Abroad, Foreign Affairs Ministry, Federal Government - Mexico, D.F. Hector Gonzales, MD, Director, City of Laredo Health Department Al Almanza, USDA Food Safety Inspection Service Administrator Humberto Garza, District Staff for Congressman Filemon Vela, US Representative for Texas’s 34th Congressional District Robert Harris, Commander, US Customs and Border Protection Video message from Congressman Michael Burgess (TX-26) Joe Ibarra, Latino Engagement at Enroll America of Texas Chris Traylor, Chief Deputy Commissioner, Texas Health and Human Services Commission
08.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced over $107 million in federal funding for state and local preparedness programs for Fiscal Year 2013. These funds will provide resources for assessment, response, recovery from acts of terrorism and threats to urban areas, as well as to enhance border security cooperation between the U.S. and Mexico and general emergency preparedness. “As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee for Homeland Security I want to thank Chairman John Carter and Ranking Member David Price for working with the Texas Delegation to secure this critical funding. I applaud the Department of Homeland Security for demonstrating once again their commitment to Texas, a state that is key to the national effort to keep our homeland safe and secure,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I encourage State and local governments to ensure that these funds are used where they are needed most, in the 14 Texas counties that are situated along the Rio Grande River and the border with Mexico. I urge each border county and city to call Austin and request that the majority of these federal funds be sent to our border communities, which are on the frontline of security issues that affect the State of Texas and the rest of the country.” The awarded funding for Texas breaks down as follows: · Homeland Security Grant Program · State Homeland Security Program – Texas: $18,650,481 · Urban Areas Security Initiative – Texas: $38,559,207 · ­ Operation Stonegarden – Texas: $19,422,318. Hidalgo: $3,321,183; Starr: $1,084,189; Webb: $2,798,063; Zapata: $441,999 · Emergency Management Performance Grants Program – Texas: $18,833,958 · Urban Area Security Initiative Nonprofit Security Grant Program – Texas: $67,960 · Transit Security Grant Program – Texas: $160,000 · Port Security Grant Program – Texas: $11,228,503 · Transit Security Grant Program – Texas: $160,000
08.20.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) along with City of Converse Mayor Suarez and Fire Chief Richard Wendt presented a $195,000 in grant funds to the Converse Fire & EMS Department “The City of Converse firefighters and emergency medical services unit have demonstrated acts of valor during times of extreme danger,” Congressman Cuellar said. “There have been several deaths and serious injuries across the country due to face mask failure. These funds will help further protect their health and wellbeing through the purchase of this personal protective equipment. I would like express my appreciation to the City of Converse along with their city officials for their collaborative efforts in securing this grant.” The City of Converse’s Fire and EMS Department received $195,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). "The Department of Homeland Security grant recently awarded to the Converse Fire Department will enhance the safety of all our Firefighters,” said City of Converse Mayor Al Suarez. “The City of Converse, Bexar County Emergency Services District #1, and the entire Northeast Metrocom will greatly benefit through the outstanding services that the Converse Fire Department will provide with these new resources. Our sincere thanks to the US Department of Homeland Security and US Congressman Henry Cuellar for their assistance in obtaining this critical grant for the City of Converse." The grant will be used to purchase 32 units of self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) – 30 minute units with a face piece and an extra bottle for the department’s firefighters who are also certified as emergency medical technicians. The ability to upgrade all Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) equipment will significantly enhance firefighter safety,” said Converse Fire Chief Richard Wendt.”The new units will have integrated alarms to signal a downed firefighter where our current units utilize an add-on unit that monitors firefighter movement. In addition the new units will have face masks that will withstand higher temperatures before failing. These funds will also impact the safety of our citizens by providing fire and EMS personnel with reliable breathing protection so that they can effectively work in dangerous atmospheres to remove trapped occupants and reduce property damage.” The Converse Fire Department aids surrounding areas and responds to more than 2,000 calls for fire and EMS services a year. These funds were made possible through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program under the Department of Homeland Security.
08.20.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX28) grants coordinators met today with city and county officials in Zapata county to discuss federal funding opportunities. The grants team assists individuals, businesses and organizations in applying for loans and grants from federal agencies such as, United States Department of Agriculture, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Department of Justice, among others. “Securing federal funds for the taxpayers of my district is one of my top priorities as a United States Congressman,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I will continue to work with the cities, counties, and businesses across TX28 to ensure that federal resources continue to be allocated to pressing local needs.” In their meetings with city officials, Congressman Cuellar’s grants coordinators discussed plans to bring more business and tourism to Zapata County and securing a stronger foundation for economic development. They also discussed various water and law enforcement projects and provided information on state and federal water infrastructure resources. For assistance in applying for a federal grant or loan, contact Juan Sanchez at juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov or 956-725-0639 or Mary Hinojosa at mary.hinojosa@mail.house.gov or 202-225-1640. Grants Tour Schedule: Tuesday, August 20th - Zapata County - Zapata Economic Development Corporation Juan and Mary meet with Peggy Umphres, President of Zapata County Economic Development Center Juan and Mary meet with the City of Zapata
08.19.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D/TX-28) presented the City of Encinal with a $1,513,000 loan from the United States Department of Agrigulture (USDA). In attendance at the event was City of Encinal Mayor Sylvano Sanchez and USDA Rural Department State Director Paco Valentin. “The successful progressive development of the City of Encinal has been evident throughout the past few years,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will be a supportive component to the continuation of the community’s expansion by providing new and efficient delegation offices for city officials.” The new building will be approximately 6200 square feet and will house the city offices of the Mayor, Police Department, City Manager and City Staff. In addition, the building will also include a chamber for City Council and Encinal Economic Development Corporation meetings. “We are pleased the City of Encinal has utilized Rural Development funds for this project, which will benefit the entire community on many levels,” said Paco Valentin, Rural Development State Director. “The new city hall will provide rural residents with a centralized and modern location to access elected officials, emergency responders and support services.” Within the facility, a community pantry will also be constructed to be used to gather and distribute food and items from the local food bank. “The funds will be used to construct and outfit our new City hall. It will be the central point of commerce for the City of Encinal,” said Sylvano Sanchez, Mayor for the City of Encinal. “The City hall will be approximately 6200 square feet and will include a brick, plaster, and wood façade that will embrace existing historical buildings within the city. It will integrate modern energy savings components such as double pane/ low-e glass, insulated doors and walls, energy efficient HVAC, energy efficient light fixture and low flow plumbing fixtures.” Congressman Cuellar presents over $1.5 million in federal funds to the City of Encinal
08.15.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX28) grants coordinators met with city and county officials in Bexar, Wilson, Atascosa, and McMullen counties during the week of August 12th through 15th. The grants team assists individuals, businesses and organizations in applying for loans and grants from federal agencies such as, United States Department of Agriculture, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Department of Justice, among others. “We send a lot of tax dollars to DC and I want to bring back as much of that money as possible to invest in our local communities,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I will continue to work with the cities, counties, and businesses across TX28 to ensure that federal resources continue to be allocated to pressing local needs. This year, my office helped secure federal funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency Assistance to Firefighters Grants Program for the cities of Pleasanton, Jourdanton, and Poteet., and Converse These funds have allowed these cities to purchase new fire trucks and new equipment. In the past years, my office helped secure an earmark from the Environmental Protection Agency to secure a new clean water well for the City of La Vernia as well as an earmark to provide additional funding to police forces in Poth and La Vernia." In their meetings with city and county officials, Congressman Cuellar’s grants coordinators discussed improvements to water and infrastructure systems, plans for a new sewage plant, the positive impact of the Eagle Ford Shale, potential green energy programs, plans for land acquisition, the application process for housing loans and grants, park improvements, and plans to improve water pumping capacity. For assistance with a federal grant or loan application, contact Juan Sanchez at juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov or 956-725-0639 or Mary Hinojosa at mary.hinojosa@mail.house.gov or 202-225-1640. Grants Tour Itinerary Bexar County: - Randolph Metrocom Chamber of Commerce - City of Converse - City of Windcrest - City of Selma - City of Live Oak - City of Universal City - City of Elmendorf - Northeast Lakeview College - City of San Antonio - San Antonio Chamber of Commerce - Small Business Association San Antonio District Office Mary and Juan meet with Converse Mayor Al Suarez Mary and Juan meet with City of Elmendorf Administrator Cody Dailey and Chief of Police Michael Pimentel City of Selma, L-R: Johnny Casias-Assistant City Administrator, Mary Hinojosa, Juan Sanchez, Pete Arguello – Bexar County Outreach Coordinator, and Ken Robert- City Administrator Universal City, L-R: Randy Luensmann-Director of Public Works, Mayor John Williams, Fire Chief Ralph Wallace, Assistant Police Chief Bill Gabbard, City Manager Ken Taylor Mary and Juan with City of Live Oak Mayor Mary Dennis and City Councilman Ed Cimics Mary and Juan meet with officials from the City of Windcrest Mary and Juan meet with Northeast Lakeview College officials Mary and Juan meet with Eduardo Carrasco, Senior International Relations Specialist with the City of San Antonio Mary and Juan meet with various officials from the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce Wilson County: - City of Floresville - City of La Vernia - Wilson County Judge L-R: Mary Hinojosa – Grants Coordinator, Angela Cantu- La Vernia City Secretary, La Vernia Mayor Robert Gregory, Jennifer Kolbe- Executive Director of La Vernia Municipal District, and Juan Sanchez – Grants Coordinator Mary and Juan meet with Wilson County Judge, Marvin Quinney L-R: Interim City Manager Reggie Winters, Floresville Mayor Diana Garza, Wilson County Commissioner Precinct 1 Albert Gamez, Wilson County Sheriff Joe Tackitt Atascosa and McMullen Counties: - City of Jourdanton - City of Poteet - City of Lytle - McMullen County Judge Meeting with Jourdanton City Manager Dan Nick Mary and Juan with Poteet Mayor Larry Cantu (L) and City Manager Scott Moore (R) Mary and Juan meet with McMullen County Judge James Teal Mary and Juan meet with Lytle City Manager Josie Campa
08.14.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX/28) presented a $974,997 federal grant to Webb County. In attendance at the check presentation was 406th District Drug Court Judge Oscar J. Hale Jr. “These funds will go directly towards Webb County’s 406th District Veterans Drug Court and their efforts to provide enhanced treatment methods to psychologically and physically afflicted veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. "Our veterans risked their lives to protect our freedom and many suffered injuries that will affect them and their families for the rest of their lives. With the Veterans Court we can help them heal and regain their health and independence. I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to Judge Oscar J. Hale Jr. and the 406th District Court for their efforts in securing these funds in order to provide better health and social services to our local veterans.” The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services will award an annual grant of $324,999, beginning 2014, to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA) to expand their services and create a Veterans Drug Court (VADCP) for those veterans who have been arrested and have co-occurring psychiatric, substance abuse, and post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD). “The 406th Drug Court Program was established in 2009 and we have already graduated over 75 participants,” said Judge Oscar J. Hale Jr. “We are proud to announce that the success of our program has allowed us to qualify for and to receive a new 3 year grant that will expand our treatment services to our combat veterans.” The proposed Veterans’ Drug Court (VADCP) will objectively integrate their procedures with the Webb County Veteran Affairs (VA) clinic to offer medication management, psychiatric and social services. Congressman Cuellar presents $1 million to Webb County District Court Drug Program on August 14, 2013.
08.14.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX/28) along with Laredo Little Theatre Board of Directors Member A.B. Barrera spoke on behalf of the Laredo Little Theatre’s completed renovation project. “Laredo is a city rich in culture and tradition,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds have supported the growth, advancement and promotion of the performing arts here in Laredo. In result, the community will be given the opportunity to create new traditions by immersing themselves in the improved aesthetics and quality entertainment of the theatre and its performers.” In 2010, Congressman Cuellar successfully secured a $200,000 earmark through HUD’s Economic Development Initiative (EDI) for the Laredo Little Theatre’s necessary restorations. "It is with heartfelt gratitude that I welcome Congressman Cuellar back to the Laredo Little Theatre,” said Oscar O. Peña, President of the Board for the Laredo Little Theatre. “The changes we have made in the last year have been spectacular and none of these changes would have been possible without Congressman Cuellar's support for the arts. Thanks to Congressman Cuellar's help we are now better equipped to support the artistic creativity of Laredo's young people and adults. Mil gracias, Henry!!!" These funds were used to upgrade outdated electronic equipment, replace worn-out auditorium seating, reconstruct the prop and costume storage, workshop facility, as well as increase the theatre’s parking capacity. Congressman Cuellar accepts a plaque from students at the Laredo Little Theatre Congressman Cuellar with Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas (L) and Laredo Little Theatre President, Oscar Peña
08.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) attended the monthly meeting of the American Association of Retired Persons, Laredo Chapter, on Tuesday, August 13th at 2pm. “Today I spoke to the American Association of Retired Persons, Laredo Chapter about important issues in Congress now, including immigration reform, social security, Medicare, and budget cuts, all of which have an impact on Laredo. In my legislative update, I expressed my support for comprehensive immigration reform, the continued strength of the Medicare and Social Security systems, and the need to balance fiscal responsibility with funding for valuable programs.” Congressman Cuellar addresses over 100 people at the Laredo Chapter meeting of the AARP on August 13, 2013.
08.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) provided keynote remarks at the 23rd Annual Motor Vehicle Criminal Interdiction Training and Intelligence Sharing Meeting on August 13th in San Antonio. “A career in law enforcement requires sacrifice, courage, and a dedication to serve others,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “The State of Texas has the longest stretch of the border with Mexico than any other State, measuring at 1,254 miles, and contains four High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas. You all have demonstrated law enforcement’s great commitment to disrupting and dismantling criminal enterprises that pose a threat to our community and we all owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to all federal, state and local law enforcement agencies who work tirelessly over the years.” “We are excited that we were able to host this training,” said Lieutenant Richard Jankovsky of the Texas Department of Public Safety. “We have been able to share very important information and have forged relationships that will last a life time. Through these relationships we have ensured that officers from across the country will strive to combat terrorism and transnational criminal activity. Attendance at the conference was over 800 people.” Congressman Cuellar addressed over 500 local, state, and federal law enforcement officers from across the country who were recognized for their achievements in significant seizures and exchange of intelligence. For more information on the conference, please visit: http://mvci-association.com/. Congressman Cuellar addresses over 800 law enforcement officers from across the country at the 23rd Annual Motor Vehicle Criminal Interdiction Training and Intelligence Sharing Meeting on August 13th in San Antonio
08.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) addressed incoming students for the 2013-2014 school year, faculty and staff at the Laredo Community College’s Focus on Student Success (FOSS) Summer Program forum on August 13, 2013. In 2012, Congressman Cuellar announced a $3.8 million cooperative grant between Laredo Community College (LCC) and Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) with the purpose of improving the academic performance and smooth transition of current and incoming LCC students to TAMIU, in order to, ultimately attain a bachelors degree. This 2-week summer program will provide incoming LCC students with a variety of key workshops, activities and presentations which will help strengthen their personal and academic skills for college. Congressman Cuellar addresses incoming students at Laredo Community College on college preparedness on August 13, 2013.
08.09.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX28) grants coordinators met with city and county officials in Hidalgo and Starr counties on August 7th and 8th. Juan Sanchez and Mary Hinojosa met with the Cities of Mission, Palmview, Palmhurst, La Joya, Penitas, and Sullivan City in Hidalgo County on August 7th. On August 8th, they met with the cities of Roma and Rio Grande City in Starr County as well as the Starr County Industrial Foundation, the Starr County Commissioner, Starr County Federal and State Funds Director, and the Starr County Sheriff’s Department. “Securing federal funds for the taxpayers of my district is one of my top priorities as a United States Congressman,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I will continue to work with the cities, counties, and businesses across TX28 to ensure that federal resources continue to be allocated to pressing local needs.” The grants team assists individuals, businesses and organizations in applying for loans and grants from federal agencies such as, United States Department of Agriculture, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Department of Justice, among others. Photos of grants tour meetings in Starr and Hidalgo counties available on Congressman Cuellar’s Facebook page.
08.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) co-chaired the first meeting of the Texas Caucus on Shale Oil and Gas (TCSOG). This caucus serves as a valuable, bi-partisan place to discuss issues surrounding shale production in Texas. The University of Texas in San Antonio (UTSA) forecasted that development of oil and natural gas in the Eagle Ford Shale added more than $61 billion in total economic impact across a 20-county region in Central and South Texas during 2012. Additionally, it supported 116,000 jobs. In 2011, UTSA reported the region generated $25 billion in economic impact and supported 117,000 jobs. The study projects that the region will support 127,000 jobs and produce an economic impact of $89 billion for Texas in 2022. “Oil and gas are the backbone of Texas’ economy and the shale oil boom has had an immense impact on business owners, towns, and cities throughout my District, TX-28, “said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I look forward to working with my colleagues across the State to further develop this vital segment of our economy.” The Caucus meeting included presentations from: United States Geological Survey Associate Energy Program Coordinator, on how USGS prepares shale oil & gas projections for the state, along with providing a snapshot of projections for the State of Texas in the coming years. Texas Railroad Commission, Commissioner David Porter on how the TXRRC is handling the current Texas boom in shale production, along with the current state of lease and production statistics statewide. Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), Chairman Bryan Shaw on recent federal and state policies which have impacted production, and what is being done in Texas to ensure safe production practices. Members of the Caucus include Democrats and Republicans from the Texas delegation.
08.02.2013	Today, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced its selection of the South Texas Consortium Assets (STAC) as one of only five public private partnerships that CBP is rolling out in ports of entry across the country. The Consortium, which represents international bridges in Laredo, Rio Grande City, McAllen, Pharr, and Cameron County, will reimburse CBP to pay for additional staff at those ports of entry. Additional ports of entry in the area from Laredo to Brownsville can join this pilot program. “Representative Cuellar has flown me to his district, showing me first-hand the need for port growth," said Chairman John Carter (R-TX31). "He has been continually providing a forum on how the CBP reimbursements will grow strengthen his district and the international relations between the United States and Mexico. He has been a true champion on this issue and I look forward to seeing what Rep. Cuellar’s district is able to accomplish through this program.” “Millions of dollars in commerce cross our southern border every day. My hometown of Laredo is the largest inland port of entry in the United States, accounting for 45 percent of all trade with Mexico,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “However, because of recent federal budget cuts, CBP does not have the resources to hire additional staff at ports of entry along the border. Delays due to outdated infrastructure cause the United States to lose $116 million per minute at the five busiest ports along the southern border. These new partnerships are an opportunity for state and local governments and private businesses to step in with support where federal funds fall short. The improvements that CBP will now be able to undertake will streamline security procedures, improve the flow of commerce, and allow us to test a new program that could be part of the cure to costly delays. This announcement is a victory not only for businesses in Laredo and the Valley but for regional cooperation across South Texas. I would like to thank Senator John Cornyn for his leadership and support as well as Chairman John Carter, Congressman Filemon Vela, and Acting Commissioner Thomas Winkowski and Customs and Border Protection for selecting STAC as one of the pilot programs.” "The selection of the South Texas Asset Consortium which is comprised of the City of Laredo, Starr-Camargo International Bridge, the City of McAllen, the City of Pharr, and Cameron County, to participate in this pilot program is a recognition of the importance of South Texas ports of entry to the national economy," said Representative Filemon Vela (D-TX34). "This new program will reduce wait times and facilitate trade by adding additional staff across South Texas ports of entry and can include all ports of entry between Brownsville and Laredo. This is particularly important given a recent study which concluded that delays on the Southern border could cost the U.S. economy $14.7 billion a year by 2020."
07.31.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), along with representatives from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and the United States Department of Agriculture, Rural Development division, held a videoconference today on federal housing loans and grants opportunities. This informational session provided attendees with an overview of federal housing assistance grants and programs, as well as federal resources and funding opportunities available to facilitate affordable housing projects. “With the majority of my district being rural, I encourage the residents, city and county governments, and housing agencies across TX-28 to take full advantage of these opportunities,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Home ownership is an integral part of the American Dream and I am committed to connecting the full reach of federal resources to local needs.” Conferenced in live from Washington, D.C. and San Antonio, TX, Mr. Richard Lopez, San Antonio Field Office Director for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Valerie Piper, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Development, Jackie Williams, Ph.D. Director of the Office of Rural Housing & Economic Development at HUD and four representatives from USDA Rural Development presented information and took questions. USDA presented specifically on opportunities for families to purchase single and multi-family housing through the use of grants and loans. HUD provided information on grants and initiatives to improve housing, especially in areas along the U.S.-Mexico border and specifically highlighting the Border Community Capital Initiative. In attendance at the grants videoconferences were representatives from housing authorities, grant writers, and city and county officials. The Office of Congressman Cuellar hosted four separate videoconferences in Laredo, San Antonio, Floresville, and Rio Grande City. Business owners, constituents, and representatives from local housing authorities attend Congressman Cuellar’s grants videoconference on federal housing grants and loans on July 31, 2013 in Laredo, TX
07.31.2013	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced that his bill, the Government Customer Service Improvement Act of 2013, passed by unanimous consent in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill seeks to serve the taxpayers by improving customer service across federal agencies. Service delivery breakdowns are in the headlines daily – veterans wait for months for critical services and Federal retirees wait for more than a year to receive the benefits they’ve earned. The Government Customer Service Improvement Act expands the existing performance management framework to track service delivery across the government to reduce the delays. “Just like the private sector strives to provide excellent customer service to bring in business, the federal government should embed better service to bring efficiency,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have a strong belief that we owe our taxpayers more than delays and service breakdowns – we owe them an effective, efficient, and responsible government because, ultimately, government is in the business of customer service.” Introduced by Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and Michael McCaul (R-TX10), this legislation will do the following at no additional cost to the taxpayer: · Raise the bar for enhancing quality and access: The legislation will require the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop minimal customer service standards that agencies must use to develop detailed goals to improve response times for inquires to Federal agencies and to modernize existing processes to make service more efficient. It also requires Agencies to develop a customer service feedback system in coordination with OMB that provides customers an opportunity to comment on the service they receive. · Create a Service Improvement Unit: OMB with support from GSA will create a two-year pilot program that will bring the top process improvement experts from across the government together to work with agencies that fail to meet the government-wide service standards. The unit will draw on successful strategies from other agencies to develop more expertise within the government to solve service breakdowns. · Target OPM Backlog: The bill includes new reporting requirements for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to monitor the long-standing backlog for retirement and other benefits. The proposal calls for monthly reporting on the OPM benefit backlog including the completeness of information OPM receives from other agencies and length of time applicants have been waiting. It also requires regular updates on OPM’s retirement systems modernization project. A link to Congressman Cuellar’s Statement on the House Floor may be accessed through this link - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jEijyjpqR6E&feature=youtu.be. H.R. 1660 passed the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform by unanimous voice vote on July 24, 2013. The bill now heads to the United States Senate where it awaits consideration.
07.31.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) helped pass H.R. 1911 today. The legislation seeks to reduce the student loan interest rates which doubled on earlier this month after Congress fail to reach a compromise: “Once this bill is signed into law by the President, students will enter the coming school year with the security of lower rates and less expensive monthly payments to loans. I have always said education is the greatest equalizer in society. It’s our job to ensure everyone gets an opportunity to obtain an affordable and quality education,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “In Texas alone, there were over four hundred thousand students borrowers in the 2012-2013 academic year according to the Committee on Education and workforce. This bipartisan bill is an example of the need for all members of Congress to work together across the aisle to ensure that we don’t let partisan gridlock prevent us from taking action on behalf of our country’s students and the hard working middle class.” Student Loan Provisions: · Reverses the July 1 interest rate hike that occurred because of Congressional inaction · Saves undergraduate students $25 billion in student loan payments over the next five years · Saves an average undergraduate $3,300 in interest payments over the course of his or her college career · Allows students to lock in today’s low interest rate ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities.
07.30.2013	Today, the Government Accountability Office released a report addressing efforts by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to address the issue of illegal visa overstays. Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), along with Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK), Senator Susan Collins (I-ME), Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX18), and Congresswoman Candice S. Miller (R-MI10), requested the report from GAO. “I commend the Department of Homeland Security and the Government Accountability Office for completing a comprehensive assessment of our shortcomings in correlating visa entries and exits to the United States,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). “I am optimistic that this report will be a catalyst for further DHS action to more effectively enforce our immigration laws and protect our borders.” Every year, millions of visitors come to the United States on a temporary basis with a visa. DHS continually reviews potential visa overstays, but a significant number of unmatched arrival records remain. This report assesses actions DHS has taken since April 2011 to minimize potential visa overstays. As of June 2013, DHS had more than 1 million unmatched arrival records that do not meet enforcement priorities. Forty-four percent of visa overstays were non-immigrants who traveled to the U.S. on a tourist visa, while 43 percent were tourists admitted to the country under the Visa Waiver Program, a program that does not require individuals to obtain a visit prior to travel to the U.S. based on agreements with certain countries. According to the GAO report, the collection of departure data at land ports is unreliable and poses a challenge to DHS’s ability to identify visa overstays. A system such as the Beyond the Border initiative, adopted with Canada in 2011, would help address those challenges. The Beyond the Border initiative is a coordinated entry/exit information system in which an entry into one country is considered an exit from the other. DHS’s analysis of the 413,222 records received through a pilot program showed that DHS was able to match 97.4 percent of Canadian entry records to a U.S. entry record. “The Beyond the Border Initiative has been hugely successful in regulating entries and exits along our northern border,” added Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage the Department of Homeland Security to consider a similar initiative with our southern neighbors.” One of the major provisions of the Senate immigration reform proposal called for DHS to develop a biometric tracking system at airports, creating digital records of all who enter and leave our borders. So far, according to the GAO report, DHS has not clearly defined the steps, time frames, and milestones needed to develop and implement such a system. Without this type of planning, DHS cannot reasonably ensure that it will meet its goals for developing this system. A full copy of the GAO report may be accessed at: http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-13-683.
07.25.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28), along with other Members of the Border Caucus, including Reps. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), and Pete Gallego (TX-23), today held a press conference to highlight the impact of the border region on the U.S. economy. Members discussed the points often ignored during the border security debate- including trade and commerce, port infrastructure, and public and private partnerships. “Our economy loses billions of dollars a year in revenue because of delays and outdated facilities at our Ports of Entry. Rather than solely using taxpayer dollars, allowing public private partnerships would spur outside investment to improve infrastructure along our borders. Reducing border wait times could generate $7.5 billion from trade and 34,000 jobs over the next ten years, helping families and small businesses across South Texas,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “In the past decade almost 6,000 people have died trying to cross our Southwestern border,” said Congressman Grijalva (AZ-03). “Approximately 2,500 have died just along the 350 miles of border I represent. Our uncontrolled border spending has done nothing to address the reasons people come to this country – it has just pushed migrants into remote areas where they die more frequently. There is a humanitarian crisis happening on our soil, and further militarization is not the answer. We need to understand that true border security means humanitarian support, preventing deaths, targeting human trafficking, and keeping border towns the safe places to live that they are today. It also means oversight of law enforcement practices to prevent further human right abuses. Fiscally responsible investments in border security will protect our nation from real harm and help us refocus on our border as an asset rather than a source of conflict.” "Trade with Mexico is critical to the economies of all states, not just those on the US-Mexican Border, evidenced by the fact that last year alone, the US had $500 billion worth of trade with Mexico," said Congressman Vela (TX-34). "For immigration reform to truly be comprehensive, it must promote this trade through investment at our land-based ports of entry. I have a bill, Putting Our Resources Toward Security or ‘PORTS’ Act, which invests billions in funding for much-needed upgrades to port infrastructure and 5000 new Customs and Border Protection Officers – the officers in blue who work at the ports. These are the kinds of investment that we need." “The border should be viewed as an opportunity, not a threat,” said Congressman O’Rourke (TX-16). “More than five hundred billion dollars’ worth of trade crosses our ports of entry every year and that helps support six million jobs nationwide. Rather than militarize our border, we should realize our full economic potential and invest those resources to improve and modernize our ports of entry. To remain economically competitive, we need to update infrastructure at our ports of entry and hire more customs officers to expedite crossing times. If we focus on the positive aspects the border has to offer, we will grow our economy and create jobs.” “During the immigration debate, myths about our border region have been spread by those who have no connection to or knowledge of our area,” said Congressman Gallego (TX-23). “People need to rethink the border. As the representative for the district with the largest US/Mexico, I know the border region means jobs for the rest of the country. More than 400,000 jobs in Texas rely on our trade with Mexico. U.S. exports to Mexico exceeded our exports to Brazil, Russia, India and China combined.” Background: · In 2012, trade between the U.S. and Mexico totaled $472,933,986 billion- roughly the equivalent of $1.3 billion a day or $1 million per minute. · 98.5% of Texas exports go to Mexico. · According to the US Chamber of Commerce, 463,132 jobs in Texas rely on trade with Mexico. · The border region of the United States and Mexico – comprised of ten border states and nearly 100 million people - would be the 4th largest world economy. · El Paso is the second largest southern land border port by value. · In 2011, $87.9 billion worth of trade crossed the ports of entry between El Paso and Juarez, an 81 percent increase since 2009. · According to the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration, the U.S. economy loses $1.5 billion in output, $400 million in wages, $200 million in tax revenues, and 6,700 jobs due to border wait times in El Paso. Economic losses are projected to increase to over $2.6 billion in output, $600 million in wages, $300 million in tax revenues and 11,500 jobs by 2017.
07.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – 25 JUL 2013 – Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Chairmen of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus, welcomed representatives from the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of Air and Marine (CBP-OAM) for a briefing on their current use of unmanned systems in support of border security and DHS’ Privacy and Civil Liberties UAS Working Group. The event was held on July 10th and was open to Members of Congress and their staff. The briefing focused on the role and mission of CBP’s unmanned systems operation, goals and objectives of the DHS working group, and the challenges faced by both agencies with their respective missions. The agency representatives discussed the details and current operating parameters of CBP unmanned systems as well as typical mission sets, unique capabilities, and system limitations. The DHS representatives also discussed the integration of the working group in determining agency best practice policy for unmanned systems. “Unmanned systems are a force-multiplier for our federal, state, and local law enforcement as they provide real-time intelligence and information to help detect, disrupt and dismantle unlawful activity along our borders. CBP’s program has proven to be a significant resource in securing our nation’s international borders, as well as supporting the vital missions of other government agencies,” said Congressman Cuellar (D-TX). Congressman McKeon stated: “As the FAA works to open the National Airspace for Unmanned Systems, it is important to gain perspective on how this technology can bring unparalleled capability to both public and private uses. It is also essential to balance the discussion of increased capability with responsible use to ensure this technology is properly used.” The Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus was created to educate the members of Congress and the public on the strategic, tactical, and scientific value of unmanned systems. It is important to acknowledge their overwhelming value and recognize the urgent need to rapidly develop and deploy more of these systems in support of ongoing civil, military, and law enforcement operations. The members of the bipartisan caucus are committed to the growth and expansion of these systems. More information is available at http://unmannedsystemscaucus.mckeon.house.gov/
07.24.2013	The House Appropriations Committee favorably reported out the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Fiscal Year 2014 Appropriations bill. This legislation sets funding levels for the State Department and foreign assistance programs for the United States government. “The relationship we have with Mexico is one of our strongest on the international stage. As our third largest trading partner, over $500 billion in goods and services crossed the U.S.-Mexico border this past year. In my hometown of Laredo, which accounts for 45 percent of trade with Mexico, over 12,000 commercial trucks cross the border every day. I welcome this opportunity to further strengthen our economic, political, and strategic partnership with our southern neighbor.” “I would like to thank Chairwoman Kay Granger (R-TX12) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY20) for their hard work in supporting the U.S. relationship with Mexico,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28). Cuellar was instrumental in the inclusion of several provisions aimed at improving our partnership with the Republic of Mexico. The following provisions to improve the United State’s assistance include: Counter-narcotics and law enforcement support through coordination in law enforcement efforts, including non-intrusive inspection equipment Intelligence sharing efforts within the border region Promotion of the rule of law, and improvements to judicial reform Economic engagement support to increase global market competitiveness, and trade, investment, and job promotion between our nations. Support of educational and cultural exchange programs to increase opportunities for underserved youth Notification language to improve the effectiveness of the International Boundary and Water Commission and the United States Congress Directive to improve levee and weir projects on the Rio Grande River Additionally, Cuellar played a key role in protecting the appropriations below from across the board cuts to international aid and support: While overall funding levels for Economic Support Fund (ESF) funding saw a decrease of $1.7 billion, funding for Mexico saw an increase of $10 million to reach a total of $45 million, aimed at improving border area infrastructure and commerce throughout the Americas $148 million to combat organized crime and drug-trafficking $7 million in Foreign Military Financing assistance The legislation now awaits floor consideration by the full House and anticipated consideration by the Senate.
07.19.2013	Congressmen Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Chairmen of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus, welcomed representatives from the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of Air and Marine (CBP-OAM) for a briefing on their current use of unmanned systems in support of border security and DHS’ Privacy and Civil Liberties UAS Working Group. The event was held on July 10th and was open to Members of Congress and their staff. The briefing focused on the role and mission of CBP’s unmanned systems operation, goals and objectives of the DHS working group, and the challenges faced by both agencies with their respective missions. The agency representatives discussed the details and current operating parameters of CBP unmanned systems as well as typical mission sets, unique capabilities, and system limitations. The DHS representatives also discussed the integration of the working group in determining agency best practice policy for unmanned systems. Congressman McKeon stated: “As the FAA works to open the National Airspace for Unmanned Systems, it is important to gain perspective on how this technology can bring unparalleled capability to both public and private uses. It is also essential to balance the discussion of increased capability with responsible use to ensure this technology is properly used.” “Unmanned systems are a force-multiplier for our federal, state, and local law enforcement as they provide real-time intelligence and information to help detect, disrupt and dismantle unlawful activity along our borders. CBP’s program has proven to be a significant resource in securing our nation’s international borders, as well as supporting the vital missions of other government agencies,” said Congressman Cuellar (D-TX). The Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus was created to educate the members of Congress and the public on the strategic, tactical, and scientific value of unmanned systems. It is important to acknowledge their overwhelming value and recognize the urgent need to rapidly develop and deploy more of these systems in support of ongoing civil, military, and law enforcement operations. The members of the bipartisan caucus are committed to the growth and expansion of these systems. More information is available at http://unmannedsystemscaucus.mckeon.house.gov/
07.15.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) along with City of Peñitas Mayor Marcos Ochoa and United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin awarded the City of Peñitas with a $2,995,000 loan. These funds will be used towards the reconstruction of the city’s deteriorating city hall and police department. In addition, this renovation will connect both independent facilities through a linking corridor between the two. “Safety and justice are two prominent components needed to effectively manage a community and its people,” stated Congressman Cuellar. “This construction will undoubtedly provide the City of Peñitas’ City Hall and Police Department with an efficient work environment and necessary amenities required to properly protect and serve their community. I would like to thank USDA and Mayor Ochoa for supporting a funding that will progress and strengthen the City of Peñitas’ local government and law enforcement.” The city is currently delegating its governing system out of a portable building lacking adequate space and handicap accessibility. This loan will finance a new 11,200 sq. ft. City Hall building intended for city offices and a 5,640 sq ft Police Department with compartmentalized office spaces for police officials and meeting quarters for its officers. “The City of Penitas has experienced tremendous growth in the last several years and we anticipate the growth to continue. The City Hall and Police Department project is critical to the city so that we can accommodate the additional staff, dispatchers and police officers needed to provide services to our growing community,” said City of Peñitas Mayor Marcos Ochoa. “The USDA officials and Congressman Cuellar have seen the overcrowded facilities we have and are aware of our growth and future growth potential and have helped us secure the much needed funding to construct facilities to allow us to service our residents.” In response, United States Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin stated, “We are pleased the City of Peñitas has utilized Rural Development funds for construction of a new city hall and police station, both of which will benefit the community on many levels.The new facility will provide the growing area with an updated emergency response center to ensure the safety of its rural residents, in addition to offering more adequate space for city officials to conduct business and meeting with community members.” Also in attendance was State Representative Oscar Longoria (D-TX28) who congratulated the City of Peñitas for their local development. “I am very proud of the progress and leadership that the City Of Peñitas, city administration and council have shown these past few years,” stated State Representative Oscar Longoria. “With access to this new capital, the city will have the opportunity to expand and construct new city buildings to accommodate personnel and public access for the tremendous growth they have experienced as of late. I would like to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar, State USDA Director Paco Valentin and all the USDA and city staff for all the hard work that made all of this possible,” added Representative Longoria. “As we move forward, I urge the City Of Peñitas to look into the future and continue the great work they have been doing. I look forward to breaking ground and ribbon cutting in the years to come.”
07.12.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo), announced today a $224,286 grant award for the Gateway Community Health Center in Laredo, Texas. Funding will assist local health centers in Texas enroll uninsured individuals and families in new coverage options available through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “These funds will go directly to helping families get health insurance,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is a simple equation: health insurance means access to affordable care, which results in healthier families. Families who have health insurance are more likely to seek out preventative care, avoiding major health crises. This enrollment program is a crucial first step in reducing the millions of dollars local hospitals and the government spends to cover the uninsured.” Miguel Treviño, Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Community Health Center, added “Gateway is elated to have received outreach and enrollment supplemental funding from the Health Resources and Services Administration. The goal of the program is to expand current outreach and enrollment in Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program to eligible health center patients and service area residents in the counties of Webb, Zapata, and Jim Hogg. The current economic situation has left many with limited resources to take care of their health and that of their family. Gateway hopes to improve the health of eligible persons through this outreach and enrollment effort.” According to the U.S. Census’ report on “Small Area Health Estimates”, Webb County has one of the highest rates of uninsured of Texas' most populous counties, at 36.8% of the total county population. This means over 80,000 people--many of them children--lack even basic health insurance coverage. Gateway projects the number of individuals to be assisted by all their O/E Assistance Workers will be 15,000 and the projected number of individuals to be enrolled with the assistance of all their O/E Assistance Workers will be 3,750. Cuellar concluded, “As many as 45,000 people nationwide die prematurely each year because they lack health insurance. And, the uninsured cost the government over $49 billion each year. This is unacceptable and we need to do better. I encourage the public to take advantage of the resources already available for them to get informed and ensure Americans are preparing to take advantage of new coverage opportunities under the Affordable Care Act.” If you wish to learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.HealthCare.gov and to learn more about the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Health Center Program, visit http://bphc.hrsa.gov/about/index.html. To get additional information on the Gateway Community Health Center, Inc call (956) 523-3645.
07.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo), announced today a $120,215 grant award for the Atascosa Health Center Inc., in Pleasanton, Texas. Funding will assist local health centers in Atascosa, Wilson and McMullen enroll uninsured individuals and families in new coverage options available through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “These funds will go directly to helping families get health insurance,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is a simple equation: health insurance means access to affordable care, which results in healthier families. Families who have health insurance are more likely to seek out preventative care, avoiding major health crises. This enrollment program is a crucial first step in reducing the millions of dollars local hospitals and the government spends to cover the uninsured.” Monty Small, Chief Executive Officer of Atascosa Health Center, Inc. stated, “This grant will provide our five-county service area with two full-time outreach and enrollment (O/E) employees. These O/E specialists will serve as our community’s experts to enroll in a Qualified Health Plan (QHP) through the Federal Marketplace. They will be assisting our uninsured patients with Medicaid, Children Health Insurance Program if qualified. They will be responsible for reaching out to all uninsured individuals and supporting them through the enrollment process from October through March 2014. Forty-seven percent of our patients are uninsured. These funds will be very helpful in addressing our communities’ uninsured population.” According to the U.S. Census’ report on “Small Area Health Estimates”, Atascosa County has over 10,000 uninsured residents or 26.7% of the total county population; Wilson County has over 8,500 uninsured residents or 22.8% of the total county population; and McMullen County has over 100 uninsured residents or 21.5% of the total county population. Cuellar concluded, “As many as 45,000 people nationwide die prematurely each year because they lack health insurance. And, the uninsured cost the government over $49 billion each year. This is unacceptable and we need to do better. I encourage the public to take advantage of the resources already available for them to get informed and ensure Americans are preparing to take advantage of new coverage opportunities under the Affordable Care Act.” If you wish to learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.HealthCare.gov and to learn more about the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Health Center Program, visit http://bphc.hrsa.gov/about/index.html.
07.11.2013	"For over 40 years, the Farm Bill has been crafted by a strong bipartisan, urban/rural coalition, which recognized that shared relationship between those who produce our food, and communities which provide markets to buy the food from our producers. Rather than following a proven model, built on bipartisan cooperation and deliberative debate, the House GOP leadership has decided to cede control of the House floor to the most extreme wing of their caucus. At midnight last night, the Speaker introduced a partial farm bill package that has never previously been considered - neither on the House floor or Committee – which was voted on less than 12 hours later. For these reasons, I could not support H.R. 2642 which has no path forward to become law. Earlier this month, 523 agriculture organizations, from across the entire nation and Texas, requested Speaker Boehner to bring a comprehensive farm bill package to the floor. According to those 532 organization, they “believe that splitting the nutrition title from the rest of the bill could result in neither farm nor nutrition programs passing, and urge you to move a unified farm bill forward.” I agree, and I remain fully committed to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner, to craft a farm bill that includes agriculture policy from our nation’s farmland to our nation’s dinner tables. There exists a coalition of members in the House or Representatives that are prepared to pass a truly comprehensive package, and I urge Speaker Boehner to follow a model of bipartisan compromise to ensure American farmers and families both are served by this legislation. I strongly encourage the House leadership to engage with the Senate, and bring legislation to the floor that will lead to conference committee, and ultimately passage into law."
06.27.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement regarding the Transboundary Hydrocarbon Agreements Authorization Act: Click to watch Congressman Cuellar’s remarks on the House Floor on 06-25-13 “This bill would allow oil and natural gas production on 1.5 million acres that were previously off-limits because of border issues. It’s been over three years since President Obama and then-President Calderon agreed on the need to finalize a binational agreement such as this, which now needs to be ratified by Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Exploration and production of oil and gas is vital to our economic growth and national security. This agreement promotes the sharing of reservoirs shared by both nations while strengthening economic ties between the two countries and protecting the environment.”
06.26.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced on Tuesday the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has launched a new website and a free-of- charge call center for consumers to get additional information on the new Health Insurance Marketplace which starts October 1st. “This week we marked 100 days until families and individuals can enroll in the new health insurance marketplace which begins on October 1st. HealthCare.gov will become the online destination where consumers can actually compare and enroll in affordable, qualified health plans. The Marketplaces will provide a choice among numerous private health plans and provide sliding-scale premium tax credits to make the coverage affordable. “I encourage the public to take advantage of the resources already available for them to get informed and ensure Americans are preparing to take advantage of new coverage opportunities under the Affordable Care Act. The sliding-scale tax credits are designed to ensure that families can find both, a health plan that meets their needs, and their budget. These new Marketplaces will ensure the peace of mind that comes with health coverage for millions of Americans.” If you wish to obtain additional information on how to enroll on the new Health Insurance Marketplace visit, www.healthcare.gov or call the 24 hour toll free call center 1-800-318-2596. Para obtener información en español presione aquí https://www.cuidadodesalud.gov/es/ o llame al centro de ayuda disponible las 24 horas del día 1-800-318-2596.
06.25.2013	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), Filemon Vela (D-Brownsville), and Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-El Paso), united against Corker-Hoeven Amendment. In 1987 Ronald Reagan famously challenged Russia by declaring: “Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall.” We object to the Corker-Hoeven Amendment. This amendment will condition a pathway to citizenship on the construction of additional border fencing. As congressmen actually representing communities along the US-Mexico border, and having grown up there ourselves, we believe this amendment is an outrageous assault on border culture; and is an ineffective and misguided attempt to solve this country’s immigration issues. For these reasons, we want to be clear: We will oppose any attempt to condition a pathway to citizenship on the construction of additional fencing along the US-Mexico border. From an economic standpoint, the Corker-Hoeven Amendment defies all conventional logic; at a time when we should be tearing down existing walls as opposed to building new ones, this amendment ignores the dynamic economic relationship between the United States and Mexico which accounted for more than $500 billion in trade last year alone. Additionally, the environmental impact of this proposal is devastating. Constructing more walls will destroy miles and miles of environmentally sensitive public and private property, which protect significant wildlife and natural resources. We must also protect private property rights. This wall is not an effective tool in our war on terror. The terrorists who attacked New York City in 2001 did not enter this country through the US-Mexico border. The Boston Marathon bombers did not enter this country through the US-Mexico border. It is no more likely that terrorists will attempt to enter this country through the US-Mexico border than through any other entry point on the Northern Border, the Pacific Coast or the Eastern Seaboard. The construction of the wall proposed by the Corker-Hoeven amendment does nothing to address the real problems fueling the migration of immigrants across the border. Since 2006, approximately 71,500 people have been killed as a result of cartel violence. Although Mexico’s economy has performed exceedingly well in the recent past, economic conditions along the US-Mexico border consistently remain stagnant. Any real attempt by both countries to stop the flow of immigrants must include smart and humane border enforcement in the United States, a comprehensive effort to eliminate cartel violence and a concerted plan to enhance economic development on both sides of the US-Mexico border. We are still strong supporters of comprehensive immigration reform, but not like this. The U.S. needs to invest in improving security on the border, but we can do this without throwing billions of dollars at empty promises of security and enforcement made in this amendment.
06.24.2013	Poteet, TX – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) along with Poteet Volunteer Fire Department Chief Curtis Adams presented a $195,000 in grant funds to the Poteet Volunteer Fire Department. “The selfless men and women of Poteet’s Volunteer Fire Department have strongly demonstrated their dedication to protect and serve their community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will put the department in compliance with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and will allow them to perform their duties properly and efficiently. I would like to extend my gratitude to the City of Poteet along with their city governments for their collaborative efforts in securing this grant.” The City of Poteet’s Volunteer Fire Department (PVFD) received $195,000 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The grant will be used to purchase a new 4-door commercial fire service tanker capable of holding 3,500 gallons of water. The new truck will replace their current 32-year-old tanker which has over 650,000 miles on it. This purchase will put them in compliance with the 1901 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard for Automotive Fire Apparatus. “On behalf of the Poteet Volunteer Fire Department membership, we would like to express our sincere gratitude for Congressman Cuellar’s consideration and approval of the AFG grant for our new tender. It is a long awaited blessing to our department and will serve not only the citizens in our response area, but surrounding areas as well,” Chief Adams said. “Our mission has always been to protect lives and property and this grant will assist us in maintaining that mission safely. The members within our department work tirelessly to serve our community and we could not do what we do without the ongoing support from our families, the citizens of Poteet as well as Atascosa County.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee, House Appropriations Sub-Committee on Homeland Security and State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, Vice Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, or YouTube Channel
06.24.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) released the following statement regarding the increase of Border Patrol apprehensions in the Rio Grande Valley and Laredo Sector: “According to Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 Customs and Border Protection (CBP) apprehension rate data, from October 2012 to May 2013, 93,923 individuals were apprehended in the Rio Grande Valley Sector and 34,990 individuals in the Laredo Sector. The RGV is seeing a significant spike in apprehensions in the first half of FY2013.The majority of individuals apprehended in south Texas originate from El Salvador, Guatemala and other countries in Central America. “While there has been a significant increase of apprehensions from last year, these numbers still fall under historic lows and our border communities are safe places to raise a family, build a business, or enjoy retirement. We must continue to strengthen our federal, state and local law enforcement agencies so that they have the tools to keep our borders safe. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am committed to staying on top of this vital national security issue.” *Attached: Statistics on apprehension rates along the southwest border as released by CBP.
06.20.2013	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) and House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX10) have requested the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a review of federal government efforts to identify and address property damage to private lands and infrastructure that occurs along the U.S.-Mexico border. On June 19, 2013, Congressman Cuellar and Chairman McCaul sent a letter to Comptroller General of the United States, Gene L. Dodaro, to ask GAO to assess property damage along the southern border and focus on what efforts are being made by the federal government to provide compensation to landowners, if any. “We’ve been working with federal, state, local law enforcement officials and border communities to address these issues, in finding ways to compensate private landowners for damages caused by undocumented border crossers or federal agencies conducting border enforcement operations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank my colleague, Chairman McCaul and Ms. Susan Durham, Executive Director of the South Texans’ Property Rights Association (STPRA) in joining me in these efforts”. “Beyond the national security threat that stems from not having a secure border is the financial toll it continues to take on private property owners," said Chairman McCaul. "It is important to understand the full scope of this destruction and ensure our property owners are not single-handedly bearing this cost associated with the federal government's failure to secure our borders." Susan Durham, Executive Director of South Texans’ Property Rights Association (STPRA), expressed her gratitude to both members taking the responsibility on addressing the issue: “STPRA applauds the efforts of Congressmen Cuellar and McCaul to address the plight of the private landowner in South Texas and along the U.S.-Mexico border with a GAO request to review the federal government’s efforts to identify and address property damage to private lands and infrastructure. Our members believe it is the federal government’s responsibility to address this issue, since border security is the federal government’s duty and obligation.” STPRA has been working since 2006 with public and government officials to protect the rights of property owners in South Texas. You can find the letter sent to GAO attached to this release
06.20.2013	"Today the Republican led House of Representatives voted down a 5-year authorization of agriculture programs which included a very divisive $26 billion cut to low income nutrition assistance. This failure of leadership to deliver a majority of Republican votes speaks of simply putting politics over policy. The last time a full 5-year Farm Bill was passed was 2008 under Democratic leadership working actively and genuinely with Republican colleagues. Passage of that Farm Bill in 2008 was a bipartisan package that delivered 316 votes (overturning President Bush’s veto) – a far cry from the 195 votes today. Earlier this month in the Democratic Senate we saw similar leadership where Chairwoman Stabenow worked with her Republican colleagues to craft a true-bipartisan package which passed overwhelmingly 66-27. I encourage all agriculture, nutrition, conservation, and other impacted groups to make clear this disappointment of leadership in the House is unacceptable for the American people. Urge Speaker Boehner and Leader Cantor to bring true bipartisan farm bill to the House floor so American agriculture is promised the certainty necessary to provide our nation the safest, most abundant food supply to the American people."
06.20.2013	“As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I am encouraged to see that both chambers in Congress have approved a plan to transfer $11.3 million toward Customs and Border Protection salaries and expenses, in order to avoid furloughs and continue to pay for administratively uncontrollable overtime (AUO) for FY 2013. As lawmakers, it is our fundamental duty to ensure that the security of our borders does not bear the brunt of these spending cuts.”
06.14.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo) released the following statement on an amendment he successfully added to H.R. 1960, the Fiscal Year 2014 National Defense Authorization Act: “This amendment will bring together the Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, and the Federal Aviation Administration to jointly develop a plan of training and testing. I am very pleased to see my amendment was included in the final passage of the bill with the support of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This amendment will go a long way towards making sure we utilize all available equipment, eliminate needless duplication of resources, and make sure no taxpayer money goes to waste while strengthening the ability of the Department of Defense and Department of Homeland Security to use unmanned aerial vehicles to protect us here and abroad.” Cuellar’s amendment calls for the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Aviation Administration, to develop and implement plans to review the potential of joint testing training and evaluation of equipment and systems. The National Defense Authorization Act authorizes $544.4 billion in discretionary spending for the base budget for the Department of Defense and Department of Energy national security activities for fiscal year 2014 and $85.8 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. Included in the bill are provisions to bring the war in Afghanistan to a successful close, a 1.8% pay increase for the troops and their families, among others.
06.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo) released the following statement on an amendment he successfully added to the 2014 Defense Appropriations Bill requesting a comprehensive plan to assess excess military base infrastructure overseas, prior to considering the closure of any domestic bases. San Antonio, or Military City USA as it is known, is home to three of the most important United States military bases – Randolph Air Force base, Fort Sam Houston, and Lackland Air Force Base. “In light of our current fiscal environment it is critical that we reevaluate our overseas basing infrastructure to ensure we can maintain our operational requirements and strategic commitments abroad while also reducing costs. My amendment to the bill asks for a comprehensive inventory evaluation of our military bases overseas,” said Congressman Cuellar, Member of the U.S House Appropriations Committee. “I believe the Department of Defense should assess overseas bases first to avoid the unnecessary closure of U.S. domestic bases. This will help protect our military bases in San Antonio.” Cuellar’s district includes parts of San Antonio, a big hub for military business. Back in May, Cuellar along with other members from the Texas Congressional Delegation signed a letter led by Congressman Castro to Secretary of Defense, Chuck Hagel addressing the excess of infrastructure at military installations. Cuellar’s amendment was included in the markup of the FY2014 Defense Appropriations bill in the full Appropriations Committee. American military forces and installations have a large impact on the economy of our Texas communities. In Texas there are over 250,000 Department of Defense personnel supporting a total economic output of nearly $149 billion. In San Antonio alone, our military bases support nearly 300,000 direct and indirect jobs in the surrounding communities, contributing over $46 billion in economic output. Congressmen Lamar Smith and Joaquin Castro whose congressional districts also include military bases added: “I thank Congressman Cuellar for his common sense amendment to protect and prioritize America’s military infrastructure here at home. San Antonio is home to many members of our Armed Forces and their families. I am proud to represent Ft. Sam Houston and will continue to promote legislation that supports the brave men and women who make tremendous sacrifices so that all Americans can be free,” said Congressman Smith. “As I said last month when penning a letter to Secretary Hagel, as well as last week when the House Armed Services Committee passed a bill that directs the Department of Defense to give Congress a report on the status of our military capacities abroad, I believe we owe it to our military families to be proactive and identify excess capacity at our overseas bases before we are asked to consider another round of painful and costly cuts back home,” said Congressman Castro. “The military installations in Texas and across our nation have a profound impact on our communities. I am committed to being a strong ally and tireless advocate for our military communities. As a representative of San Antonio— a city recently ranked the most friendly to the military—I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle and across the country to make this issue a priority.” Other members from the Texas Congressional delegation who signed on to the letter include Pete Gallego (D-TX23), Marc Veasey (D-TX33), Lloyd Doggett, (D-TX35), Al Green (D-TX09), Gene Green (D-TX29), Ralph Hall (R-TX04), Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX15), Beto O’ Rourke (D-TX16), Filemon Vela (D-TX34), and Randy Weber (R-TX14).
06.10.2013	from left: Lucio Cabello, Councilman, City of Cotulla; Tim Hogsett, Recreation Grants, Texas Parks and Wildlife Department; Juan Garcia, Councilman, City of Cotulla; Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director; Lytle Arche, Mayor Pro Temp; Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28); Tracy King, Texas State Representative Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, joined City of Cotulla Mayor Jose Javier Garcia and the State Director of the United States Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Program Paco Valentin, to re-open the A.B. Alexander Convention Center in Cotulla. “I would like to acknowledge and thank the efforts put forth by the USDA’s State Director Paco Valentin, the City of Cotulla and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department for making the restoration of the A.B. Alexander Convention Center a reality,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These improvements will create a social and educational foundation for the community and its residents.” The A.B. Alexander Convention Center was originally built thirty years ago and was later named after Ben Alexander, philanthropist, veteran and lifelong agriculture aficionado. USDA, under the Rural Development Program, awarded the City of Cotulla a $1,056,000 loan along with a $40,000 grant to make improvements to the convention center. The City of Cotulla contributed $200,000 for the project and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department contributed $417,000 for a Nature Center to be located within the building. “On behalf of the City of Cotulla I would like to extend our utmost gratitude to USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin and Congressman Henry Cuellar for securing the funding that made the renovation of this establishment possible,” said Mayor Jose Garcia of Cotulla. “The new and improved A.B. Alexander Convention Center will provide the community of Cotulla with amenities that will provide both social, economical, and educational benefits." The building was gutted and completely renovated – installing new flooring, furnishing and air conditioning. The building is now within ADA compliance and will host city events, festivals, games, concerts and more. “We are pleased the City of Cotulla has utilized Rural Development funds for this project, which will benefit the entire community on many levels,” said Paco Valentin, Rural Development State Director. “The new civic center will provide rural residents with a centralized and modern location to host community events, and will provide the growing area with an updated resource for educational and cultural activities.”
06.07.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, released the following statement on the passage of the H.R. 2217, the FY 2014 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill: “This bill includes the hiring of 1,600 new CBP officers. Those are the men and women in blue that man our ports of entry. The addition of these 1,600 CBP officers will be a historic step in addressing the congested ports of entry. This new increase of CBP officers will achieve the goal of facilitating trade, travel and boost economic development,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill, was crafted with bipartisan support, but unfortunately includes an amendment, that was added at the last minute which affects young, innocent DREAMers.” Congressman Cuellar has been a long advocate of immigration reform and has emphasized the need to fix our broken immigration system. To view Congressman Cuellar’s full remarks on the House Floor on Wednesday, June 5, follow this link: http://www.c-spanvideo.org/clip/4454848
06.05.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, voted in favor of the 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Act which seeks to reduce the backlog in claims currently present at the Department of Veteran Affairs. The bill passed 421-4. Cuellar, a Member of the U.S House Appropriations Committee, expressed how critically important this bill is for his district: “My district staff is currently working with over 205 veterans with outstanding claims that have been unresolved for 18 to 24 months. This is unacceptable. Our veterans have given full measures of devotion for our country, often sacrificing their time, their youth, and--in some cases--their health; it is our obligation to ensure veterans receive the assistance they deserve in a timely fashion,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is our duty as a Congress and as a grateful nation to provide a benefits system that is easy to navigate and responsive.” As of May 2013, the Veteran’s Administration had 843,000 claims pending – more than two thirds of which have been pending for over 125 days. The bill fully funds and supports 20,851 claims processors ensuring there are enough individuals to review claims. Additionally, the bill funds the VA’s Veterans Claims Intake Program – converting old paper files to digital ones that are more accessible and searchable. The bill also directs the VA and the Department of Defense to create one electronic health record system – preventing errors and potentially reducing costs. To get additional information on the 2014 Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations Act follow this link: http://1.usa.gov/17YKvPi To view Congressman Cuellar’s full remarks on the House Floor on Tuesday, June 4, follow this link: http://www.c-spanvideo.org/clip/4454744
05.23.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced the approval of the requested 1,600 new Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers in the Homeland Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee. Congressman Cuellar called this, “A huge step for our community’s border security.” The Congressman stated: Listen here: https://soundcloud.com/repcuellar/cbp-1-600-agents Read here: “This Homeland Appropriations bill does something very unique. For the first time (in a long while), it’s going to add 1,600 new Customs and Border Protection officers, which are the folks that work on our bridges, our airports, and our seaports. Being the largest amount of CBP officers added (recently) means that trade and tourism are going to be improved. This should help us with the waiting lines (at the border). This should mean that the economic impact to our community will improve simply because we will not be wasting time waiting in line for (on average) an hour – to – an hour and half every time one of those commercial trucks passes. It is good news for the border. I feel good that this legislation will simply do a lot of good for the border. It has a good focus on the border communities. And this is one of the reasons I wanted to get on the Appropriations (committee) to make sure that the border communities are heard on issues like this.” This fiscal year 2014 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill provides $10.6 billion for the CBP and $38.9 billion in total.
05.22.2013	To view Congressman Henry Cuellar's congratulatory message click here. Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, announced and congratulated Sharyland High School senior Raymundo "Ray" Hernandez, III, son of Diana and Raymundo Hernandez, Jr., on his recent acceptance to the United States Naval Academy for the 2013-2014 academic school year. "I take the responsibility of nominating students into military service academies seriously," Congressman Cuellar said. "During the extensive nomination process, Ray had the kind of impressive resume and moral character I look for in nominees. Ray demonstrated his leadership skills throughout his involvement with the community. His academic strengths, moral character, and commitment to duty are exactly what our military service members need to succeed in today's challenging world. I offer my sincere congratulations to Ray and his family and wish him the best in their service to our country. I have no doubt that he will represent our 28th Congressional District of Texas with great pride and success." Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies' application process. To earn a nomination, students participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic history, leadership skills, extracurricular activities, and personal essays. This is the second year in a row Sharyland High School sends a student to a military service academy - Paul O'Donnell received acceptance to the United States Military Academy at West Point one year ago. Ray first learned about the military academies in sixth grade while watching television with his father. After conducting research, he began obtaining Navy posters (still hanging in his room to date) and worked diligently toward the goal of being accepted to the Academy. His inspiration came from past family members who have served in the military - most notably his grandfather, Raymundo Hernandez, Sr., a World War II veteran and Mexican National who obtained his United States citizenship during his service. "Being part of the generation of children who witnessed 9/11 gave me an early perspective of the value of our American freedom; this along with a strong military influence from family and friends provided years of inspiration to protect that freedom. After sixth grade I realized that the service academies would help me achieve that goal." Ray, named after his grandfather, is ranked among the top of his class. A marching band member and varsity baseball player, he volunteers his time regularly to help the youth at Saint Paul's Catholic Church, and is involved in other community activities including the Challenged Sportsman of America Organization and the annual Catholic Youth Renovation Project in Mission, Texas. Alexis Gallegos, from Congressman Cuellar's district office in Mission attended the Senior Awards Assembly at Sharyland High School on Wednesday to present Ray with a Congressional Certificate of Recognition on behalf of Congressman Cuellar.
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) hosted a small business videoconference across four cities in his congressional district, in which more than 60 participants gained insightful knowledge of the latest tools and resources available to submit a successful grant application. The area’s event was held at Sharyland Independent School District Administration Office. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the Small Business Administration, the Economic Development Administration, and the United States Department of Agriculture joined participants at Sharyland ISD Administration Office via videoconference from Washington D.C. “At today’s workshop we wanted to keep it simple: grants are available and here’s how you can apply,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have a tremendous amount of resources available and I look forward to continue bringing top-notch presenters to my district so that we can continue bringing more federal dollars for projects that benefit our communities.” Today’s event is part of an ongoing series of grants videoconferences that Congressman Cuellar will host throughout the year to inform the community about available grants in various sectors such as rural development, education and law enforcement. Today’s conference featured Antonio Doss, Acting District Director from the Small Business Administration, Washington Metropolitan Area District Office; Tom Guevara, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regional Affairs from the Economic Development Administration; and Lillian Salerno, Acting Deputy Administrator from the Rural Business and Cooperative Service at USDA. The grants videoconference was also broadcast at the Northeast Lakeview College in Universal City, Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton, and Texas A&M International University. For more information on how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website www.house.gov/cuellar or call (956) 725-0639.
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) hosted a small business videoconference across four cities in his congressional district, in which more than 60 participants gained insightful knowledge of the latest tools and resources available to submit a successful grant application. The Pleasanton event was held at Coastal Bend College. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the Small Business Administration, the Economic Development Administration, and the United States Department of Agriculture joined participants at Coastal Bend College via videoconference from Washington D.C. “At today’s workshop we wanted to keep it simple: grants are available and here’s how you can apply,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have a tremendous amount of resources available and I look forward to continue bringing top-notch presenters to my district so that we can continue bringing more federal dollars for projects that benefit our communities.” Today’s event is part of an ongoing series of grants videoconferences that Congressman Cuellar will host throughout the year to inform the community about available grants in various sectors such as rural development, education and law enforcement. Today’s conference featured Antonio Doss, Acting District Director from the Small Business Administration, Washington Metropolitan Area District Office; Tom Guevara, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regional Affairs from the Economic Development Administration; and Lillian Salerno, Acting Deputy Administrator from the Rural Business and Cooperative Service at USDA. The grants videoconference was also broadcast at the Northeast Lakeview College in Universal City, Texas A&M International University, and Sharyland ISD Administration Office in Mission. For more information on how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website www.house.gov/cuellar or call (956) 725-0639.
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) hosted a small business videoconference across four cities in his congressional district, in which more than 60 participants gained insightful knowledge of the latest tools and resources available to submit a successful grant application. The San Antonio event was held at Northeast Lakeview College in Universal City. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the Small Business Administration, the Economic Development Administration, and the United States Department of Agriculture joined participants at Northeast Lakeview College via videoconference from Washington D.C. “At today’s workshop we wanted to keep it simple: grants are available and here’s how you can apply,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have a tremendous amount of resources available and I look forward to continue bringing top-notch presenters to my district so that we can continue bringing more federal dollars for projects that benefit our communities.” Today’s event is part of an ongoing series of grants videoconferences that Congressman Cuellar will host throughout the year to inform the community about available grants in various sectors such as rural development, education and law enforcement. Today’s conference featured Antonio Doss, Acting District Director from the Small Business Administration, Washington Metropolitan Area District Office; Tom Guevara, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regional Affairs from the Economic Development Administration; and Lillian Salerno, Acting Deputy Administrator from the Rural Business and Cooperative Service at USDA. The grants videoconference was also broadcast at the Texas A&M International University in Laredo, Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton, and Sharyland ISD Administration Office in Mission. For more information on how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website www.house.gov/cuellar or call (956) 725-0639.
05.22.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) hosted a small business videoconference across four cities in his congressional district, in which more than 60 participants gained insightful knowledge of the latest tools and resources available to submit a successful grant application. The Laredo event was held at Texas A&M International University. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the Small Business Administration, the Economic Development Administration, and the United States Department of Agriculture joined participants at TAMIU’s Western Hemisphere Trade Center via videoconference from Washington D.C. “At today’s workshop we wanted to keep it simple: small business assistance programs are available and here’s how you can apply,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have a tremendous amount of resources available and I look forward to continue bringing top-notch presenters to Laredo and my district so that we can continue bringing more federal dollars for projects that benefit our communities.” Today’s event is part of an ongoing series of grants videoconferences that Congressman Cuellar will host throughout the year to inform the community about available grants in various sectors such as rural development, education and law enforcement. Today’s conference featured Antonio Doss, Acting District Director from the Small Business Administration, Washington Metropolitan Area District Office; Tom Guevara, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regional Affairs from the Economic Development Administration; and Lillian Salerno, Acting Deputy Administrator from the Rural Business and Cooperative Service at USDA. The grants videoconference was also broadcast at the Northeast Lakeview College in Universal City, Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton, and Sharyland ISD Administration Office in Mission. For more information on how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website cuellar.house.gov.
05.21.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that he plans to focus all his efforts and attention on stopping furloughs at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)—as a result of budget cuts provoked by sequestration. The harmful automatic budget cuts, known as the sequester, have impacted CBP significantly. Nearly $600 million dollars in cuts to the federal border protection agency’s budget have forced a hiring freeze on all non-frontline personnel, limited reductions in overtime, and the elimination of any monetary disbursement for the fiscal year 2013—more commonly known as “on the spot” and “special act” payments. “Whether you live in Laredo, McAllen, Brownsville, or Zapata; you know how important the work of our men and women at CBP is to the safety and security of our border,” stated Congressman Cuellar. The member of the U.S. House of Representatives Appropriations Committee and 28th Congressional district in Texas added: “Sequestration has so far threatened hundreds of thousands of jobs and has put the health of our economy in jeopardy. Unless we mobilize now—by supporting CBP’s plan to Congress—we run further risk of leaving our border vulnerable, our families without a sense of security, and our communities doubting our commitment to their safety”. Congressman Cuellar’s references to the CBP plan includes a proposal submitted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), on behalf of CBP, to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on Friday, May 17th, 2013. The same evening Thomas Winkowski, CBP Acting Commissioner notified all employees awaiting a solution of the plan’s submission to Congress. Early last April, Congressman Cuellar met with National Border Patrol Council’s local Laredo chapter. The Congressman listened to the various concerns of the local CBP agents. Congressman Cuellar sent a letter to U.S. House of Representatives Speaker John Boehner on March 14th, 2013; warning of the adverse impacts sequestration would have on his community. The Congressman’s letter aimed to address the affects of these budget cuts on border communities throughout Webb, Zapata, Starr, and Hidalgo counties in Texas.
05.17.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), together with the Small Business Administration, the Economic Development Administration, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, will host a small business videoconference in four cities across his congressional district on Wednesday, May 22, from 12:30p.m. to 1:30 p.m. CST. The purpose of the video-conference is to provide additional information to organizations in each of these communities about what federal resources are available for small businesses and where to find information for available funding opportunities within the federal government. The video-conferences will be held in the following cities: Pleasanton: Coastal Bend College – Room 106; 1411 Bensdale Road Mission:Sharyland Independent School District, Administration Office, 1106 N. Shary Road Laredo: Texas A&M International University, Western Hemisphere Trade Center Room 224, 5201 University Blvd. Universal City: Northeast Lakeview College, Room NLIB 312, 1201 Kitty Hawk Rd. To RSVP, contact Juan Sanchez at juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov or (956) 725-0639 For more information on the video conference or how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website http://cuellar.house.gov
05.15.2013	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) met with Elin Suleymanov, Ambassador of Azerbaijan to the United States to discuss issues related to the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh. Last month, Congressman Cuellar, member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Appropriations, co-signed a letter to the Chairwoman of the Committee’s Sub-Committee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. The letter, addressed to Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12) and the Ranking Member, Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), expressed support for assistance to the victims of Armenia-Azerbaijan Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
05.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) along with the City of Jourdanton Mayor Netardus announced $180,500 in grant funds to the two cities Volunteer Fire Departments. “The men and women of the Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department perform selfless acts of courage to protect and serve our community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will help keep our community safe by providing appropriate equipment to personnel, thereby better serving our ever growing population and their needs. I thank the Jourdanton Fire Department along with their city governments for their diligent efforts in helping me guide these grants to Atascosa County. ” The City of Jourdanton’s Volunteer Fire Department (JVFD) received $180,500 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The grant will be used to purchase a tanker fire truck, capable of holding 3,000 gallons of water. The JVFD will raise $40,000 to cover the total cost of the truck, estimated at $220,500. This new truck will replace a used 1972 truck that the department purchased about ten years ago. Funding for vehicles under the AFG Program was limited to 25 percent of the 12,000 applications submitted. “The grant process is a competitive one, but the City of Jourdanton remained dedicated to bringing our taxpayer dollars back home. Today, the Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department is seeing their hard work come to fruition in the receipt of federal money to purchase a new tanker truck,” said City of Jourdanton Mayor Susan Netardus. “I would like to thank Congressman Cuellar and his office for their diligence and hard work in guiding the City of Jourdanton and the Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department through the grant process. The safety of our citizens and community are our highest priority and, with the help of these grants, we will be able to achieve our goals.”
05.13.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) along with the City of Pleasanton Mayor Powell announced over $79,800 in grant funds to the two cities Volunteer Fire Departments. “The men and women of the Pleasanton Volunteer Fire Department perform selfless acts of courage to protect and serve our community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will help keep our community safe by providing appropriate equipment to personnel, thereby better serving our ever growing population and their needs. I thank the Pleasanton Fire Departments along with their city governments for their diligent efforts in helping me guide these grants to Atascosa County. ” The City of Pleasanton’s Volunteer Fire Department received $79,800 from the AFG Program of DHS’s FEMA. The grant will purchase 30 units of turnout gear and an industrial washer and dryer to upkeep the new gear and ensure items are free of contaminates and hazardous materials. “Being the largest fire department in the County, ensuring our personnel have the necessary equipment is most important to our team,” said City of Pleasanton Mayor Powell. “Our gear, which has reached its shelf life, is the first line of defense for our volunteers. This grant allows the men and women that work their hardest for the City of Pleasanton and the surrounding areas the peace of mind in knowing that they will be properly protected. I thank all those involved in helping secure this grant, a true blessing for our fire department.”
05.10.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) joined residents from Atascosa, Bexar, Hidalgo, La Salle, McMullen, Starr, Webb, Wilson, and Zapata counties for a Telephone Town Hall. The Congressman hosted the event to facilitate a question and answer session with people throughout the district about issues facing their community, particularly matters related to Social Security and Medicare. Sylvia Serrano, District Manager at the U.S. Social Security Administration, accompanied Cuellar. Cuellar uses Telephone Town Halls to connect with constituents while he is in Washington, D.C. during weeks that Congress is in session. Over 4,000 constituents participated in the phone call. “This Telephone Town Hall was designed to focus specifically on addressing the issues and inquiries the people and our community have about Social Security and Medicare,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am very grateful to Social Security Administration, District Manager Sylvia Serrano, for joining us during the call and sharing her expertise on these issues. I wanted to be able to hear from residents in the area, in their own voice, about how I could provide them with a response to their inquiries related to Social Security and Medicare.” During the call, Cuellar conducted a poll with the callers asking if they believed in increasing the full retirement age further to help close Social Security’s funding gap. Sixty-nine percent of respondents said the current retirement age should remain the same, while 31 percent said the retirement age should change. Representative Cuellar’s Congressional office in Washington D.C. plans to hold several Telephone Town Halls throughout the year.
05.10.2013	The Jefferson Water Treatment Plant recently underwent a major overhaul costing over 35 million dollars, made possible through federal funds.. Not only was the treatment capacity upgraded to 65 million gallons of water per day, but process and electrical upgrades enhanced the reliability of the treatment process. Some of the improvements to the water plant also included the replacement of power poles and the overhead wiring with a looped underground electrical power distribution system, which includes three electrical buildings housing new motor control centers. In addition, new traveling water screens and a new floculator and upgrade of existing units and relift pumps now provide a more reliable hydraulic capacity. Plus, four new gravity filters and rehabilitation of existing filters permit the facility to respond to wide variations in river water turbidity. Also, a new high service pump and an additional clearwell will provide a more uniform water system pressure. “The Jefferson Water Treatment Plant is the heart of the city – providing our community with sufficient quality and quantity of water,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is a perfect example of federal and local governments working together to provide necessary infrastructure. This investment, made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will alleviate the burden on the local taxpayer and ensure our water needs are met for decades to come.” This project was designed by Carollo Engineers and constructed by Pepper Lawson Construction. This project was funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) in the amount of approximately $35,000,000, and an additional $1,200,000 of City funds. This project was administered by the Texas Water Development Board. “Let us not forget the new Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system (SCADA),” stated Utilities Director, Tomas Rodriguez, “now it’s combined with new flow meters and motor operated valves that will permit increased precision in chemical addition for reduced operating costs.” Rodriguez further mentioned that the entire community will benefit from these multi-million dollar improvements, and would the City of Laredo not have received the ARRA funds, the City of Laredo Utilities Department would have been faced with having to double the water rates to fund these improvements. Rodriguez added that, “the City of Laredo is very thankful to U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar for their continued support in helping Laredo obtain these federal funds for major water infrastructure improvements that will serve the entire community.”
05.08.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) welcomed students from the United Day School in Laredo, Texas during their annual trip to Washington D.C. United Day’s field trip provides 8th grade students a hands-on learning experience in politics, government, and American history. Congressman Cuellar meets with students Ben Mora and Rachel Mora from United Day School at the base of the U.S. Capitol’s stairs
05.07.2013	On Thursday, May 9th, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) will host a Telephone Town Hall with local residents to discuss issues related to Social Security and Medicare. The Congressman will be accompanied by Social Security Administration District Manager Sylvia Serrano. The call is open to the public in Texas’s 28th Congressional district. Media can hear the call by dialing (877) 229-8493 and entering PIN# 17963. Event: Telephone Town Hall Date: Thursday, May 9, 2012 Time: 10:00 a.m. CT Dial in: 877-229-8493 Pin #: 17963
05.07.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) addressed the members of the Bryan-College Station, Texas Chamber of Commerce during their visit to Capitol Hill. Cuellar was invited by Congressman Flores to discuss issues including fiscal responsibility, economic development and increasing the quality of our workforce. The Congressman focused on economic and trade issues related to commerce between Mexico and the United States, more specifically between this neighboring country and the State of Texas. Rep. Cuellar’s remarks, in their entirety, can be listened to here by clicking this link: https://soundcloud.com/repcuellar/bryan-college-station-texas-chamber-of-commerce He stated, “Texas is the number one exporting state in the whole country; and Mexico is an important area for trade whether it be for the agriculture products or even in the oil and gas equipment. […] We have to look at Mexico as a friend and not as enemy […] every day $1.2 billion dollars of trade passes between U.S. and Mexico. In fact, my hometown of Laredo (Texas) handles about 40 percent of all the trade between the U.S. and the Republic of Mexico.”
05.02.2013	ALTON, TX —Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) along with firefighters and officials from the City of Alton, broke ground on a new fire station, a project made possible in part by funds through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). “The men and women of the Alton Fire Department perform selfless acts of courage to protect and serve our community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will help keep our community safe by providing appropriate shelter to personnel, thereby better serving our ever growing population and their needs. I thank the Alton Fire Department and the City of Alton for their diligent efforts in helping me guide this grant to Alton. ” In 2010, USDA, through the Rural Development Community Facilities, awarded funds in the amount of $1,000,000 – half of which was provided in the form of a grant. The City of Alton will contribute $200,000 toward the project. “Together, we can stay true to our motto, ‘City on the Grow’. Through these types of collaborative efforts we can make a difference, and with new facilities like this fire station we will be able to give the citizens of Alton the service they deserve,” said City of Alton Mayor Salvador Vela. The City of Alton has outgrown the current fire station, built twenty years ago and designed for a small volunteer group. The building’s poor condition makes it difficult for cost effective repair or expansion. The new fire station will be centrally located, will accommodate three shifts of firefighters 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and will have new administrative offices and training rooms. The station will also have easy access for emergency vehicles and fire trucks that will allow for faster response time and better services. “USDA Rural Development is committed to providing assistance to rural towns and communities to help them provide valuable services to their residents,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “This funding will provide the City of Alton Fire Department with the means to construct a new, modern fire station to protect rural residents by allowing for faster response times to emergencies within the community.” The City of Alton Fire Department currently has a full time staff of 15 with seven trucks for various functions (engines, rescue vehicles, brush trucks).
05.02.2013	PEÑITAS, TX —Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28) along with City of Peñitas Mayor Marcos Ochoa announced $54,000 in federal funding for the City of Peñitas from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Funds will be used to create a revolving loan fund for small business in the area. “When local communities reach out for federal assistance, we make their requests a top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “New business development allows for job creating opportunities, thereby directly benefiting families in the area. I thank USDA and Mayor Ochoa for their commitment to the economic growth of the City of Peñitas.” USDA, under their Rural Development Rural Business Enterprise Grant Program, awarded a $54,000 grant to the City of Peñitas to begin a revolving loan fund. Under the program, a loan is made to a small business and, as repayments are made, funds become available for new loans for other businesses. The goal of the loan program is to create an economic multiplier effect and stimulate the local economy. “The Loan Program will help to expand and sustain small businesses in the city. The grant will expand the economic growth by creating and saving jobs,” said Mayor Marcos Ochoa.
05.02.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar will be hosting a Coffee in Zapata on Saturday, May 4, at 10 a.m. at the Holiday Restaurant, located at 506 N. US Highway 83. Zapata County is in Congressman Cuellar’s district and includes San Ygnacio, Lopeno, Ramireno, Falcon, Bustamante, Dolores, Chihuahua and Escobas. This coffee will give the area’s residents the opportunity to share with Congressman Cuellar issues affecting them, including Social Security and Medicare, veterans’ benefits, and financial aid “As a U.S. Congressman, one of my priorities is to be easily accessible to my constituents and one way of doing so is by having these gatherings,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invite residents to this coffee so we can discuss current happenings at our nation’s capital.”
04.30.2013	El Paso, Texas – Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) joined local community and business leaders to inspect obstacles impeding fluid transit and commerce over the highly trafficked Paso del Norte International Bridge. The thruway, connecting El Paso and Ciudad Juárez in Chihuahua, has suffered extended waiting times for commercial vehicles and travelers. The two Congressional Representatives set off on a tour of the overpass area to investigate the port of entry. Both Cuellar and O’Rourke form part of a group of seven legislators that introduced the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act (H.R.1108) earlier last month in Washington DC. The bipartisan bill authorizes the “Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to enter into agreements with persons for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to provide customs and immigration services at a land border port of entry”. As federal resources remain scarce, entering into these partnerships will allow CBP to seek alternate sources of funding to ensure its essential needs are met. Federal law currently prohibits CBP from accepting any non-federal funding. “Having lived most of my life on the US-Mexican border, I understand the importance trade has had on our community. More than a billion dollars in goods cross the US-Mexican border each day. It is our job in Congress to protect small businesses and reduce wait times at our ports of entry”, said Congressman Cuellar. He added, “We must take action while we increase the flow of commerce and improve the security and safety of the families and businesses that cross over our bridges to invest in their livelihood and economic security. For these reasons, I thank Congressman O’Rourke for allowing me to join him in this pursuit to convert the Paso del Norte Bridge into a beacon of our prosperity—both here and at home, throughout the State of Texas, and the greater United States of America.” “Nearly 6 million U.S. jobs are dependent on the trade between the U.S. and Mexico. In the El Paso region alone, more than 100,000 jobs are supported by the $80 billion in annual trade that crosses our local ports of entry. Long wait times at our border are stifling trade and the economic activity it helps generate. If we want to grow our national and regional economies, we have to reduce wait times at our ports of entry and foster the cross-border trade that our communities rely on. As the representative of another border community, Congressman Cuellar understands this reality and I am grateful for his support and partnership as we work to find solutions to this problem,” said Congressman O’Rourke. Congressmen Cuellar and O’Rourke were joined by El Paso County Judge, Veronica Escobar; El Paso Mayor, John Cook; Councilmember, Cortney Niland; Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce Chair, Kathleen Walker; El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce CEO, Cindy Ramos-Davidson; Borderplex Alliance CEO, Rolando Pablos; El Paso Foreign Trade Association President, Stephanie Caviness-Tantimonaco; and Dennis Melonas, Executive Director for the El Paso Central Business Association.
04.25.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (TX-28), addressed the over 100 members of the Independent Bankers Association of Texas (IBAT) on Capitol Hill in Washington DC. The Texas Congressman discussed with the Association's members issues related to the U.S.'s budgetary deficit and immigration reform. Congressman Cuellar applauded the role that community banks have played despite instability presented by the financial crisis. He stated, “The community of Independent Bankers, like yourselves, have always been stable throughout many years. I appreciate the steps and approach that you have been taking.” Cuellar was invited by IBAT Chairman Troy M. Robinson and President Christopher L. Williston. Video coverage related to the Congressman’s address can be found on YouTube below: Segment: Immigration Reform http://youtu.be/DfrOvdHirJU Segment: Budget and Deficit http://youtu.be/P53m04zU9wM Full Address: Independent Bankers Association of Texas (IBAT) http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwvbVWYCk-o
04.24.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, (TX-28), greeted King Abdullah II of Jordan and welcomed him to US Congress; during the Head of State’s visit to Washington DC, which included briefings and meetings with President Barack Obama, Vice-President Joe Biden, high ranking Cabinet officials and leaders on Capitol Hill. The Congressman and King Abdullah discussed issues related to peace in the Middle East during a briefing with the US House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Photo credit: U.S. House of Representatives, 28th District of Texas. (see attached photo .JPG 2.5MB)
04.23.2013	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Michael McCaul (R-TX-10) announced the introduction of the Government Customer Service Improvement Act of 2013. The bipartisan legislation works to improve customer service delivery across federal agencies, and a companion bill was introduced by U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Ron Johnson (R-WI). Millions of Americans depend on federal agencies for vital services, and delays in processing those requests often result in inconvenience, frustration and financial hardship. Passage of this legislation will make the federal agency customer service process both more transparent and efficient and will focus limited resources on improving front-line customer service functions. “Millions of American families encounter the federal government on a daily basis. They deserve first class customer service. When trying to navigate the bureaucracy and cut through the red tape, it is the job of our federal agencies to provide helpful answers in a professional and timely manner. This bill puts the taxpayer first,” said Congressman Cuellar, Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “Too often we hear that Americans’ are frustrated with government service. It is our responsibility to act when we hear that students are having difficulty with federal student loans or when seniors experience a delay in their retirement benefits. Every taxpayer, every day will benefit from this legislation.” "The federal government is an oversized, intimidating bureaucracy that is too often difficult to navigate," said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. "Whether it's a veteran in need of care or a business with a tax dispute, the least we can do is ensure that each federal agency is responsive to the taxpayers who fund it." “Citizens should expect federal agencies to deliver customer services at least as well as the private sector does, but this often is not the case," Senator Warner said. “Many of our military veterans still wait too long for critical medical services and benefits, and I’ve heard from Virginians waiting over 400 days for their full retirement benefits from the federal government. That simply is not acceptable.” “For companies operating in the private sector, bad customer service means reduced profits and the risk of failure,” said Senator Johnson. “While federal agencies don’t face that pressure, this bipartisan measure requires the development of customer service standards and performance measures at each agency. This is a common sense approach to help make government operations more responsive.” The measure requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to set government-wide customer service standards to improve response times for citizen requests and government services. It holds the Chief Performance Officer at each agency responsible for improving customer service and it would also establish a specialized team to assist those agencies which consistently fail to meet customer service standards. In addition, the Government Customer Service Improvement Act of 2013 sets specific service improvement targets for the Office of Personnel Management, an agency which has experienced chronic backlogs in processing retirement benefits for federal employees. As of March 2013, OPM still has a backlog of more than 36,000 claims.
04.16.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28), received the prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his support of key business legislation during the 112th Congress. The award is given to Members of Congress who have cast votes that help the economy grow and create new jobs. The Chamber designates “key votes” in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate chamber as the recorded votes on issues that have a direct impact on businesses. Among the issues the Chamber scored this year was the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the establishment of the Permanent Normal Trade relations (PNTR) with Russia among others. “I am honored to receive this award,” said Cuellar. “My congressional district contains one of the nation's largest volume trade ports, and as a former small business owner myself, I take the issues facing business and our economy as a whole very seriously. The ‘Spirit of Enterprise’ award embodies the belief that trade, investment, transportation, development and education are key to a booming, prosperous nation. I will continue supporting legislation that helps boost our economy and create jobs”. This is the 25th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group. “In the face of high-stakes politics and difficult choices, Rep. Cuellar provided America’s job creators with a strong voice in Congress,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “This award recognizes Rep. Cuellar for consistently demonstrating his support for pro-growth policies.” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. For more information follow this link: http://www.uschamber.com/
04.15.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) announced he will be working together with President Obama to obtain the necessary funding for the expansion of the U.S. Land Port of Entries (LPOEs). Cuellar was joined by Laredo City Officials, and representatives from Customs and Border Patrol, Laredo Customs Brokers Association, Laredo Chamber of Commerce, and Mexican Customs Brokers Association in a press conference at the Laredo International Airport. “I have been working for a long time with federal agencies to allocate the necessary funding to extend renovations to Laredo ports of entries. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I look forward to working with my colleagues to see that this project is fully funded,” said Cuellar. “This project will increase efficiency and improve safety and security of vehicle processing, and expedite pedestrian processing, consolidate operations and improve security and safety of pedestrian traffic. Pedestrians will no longer have to wait long lines in the heat, and at the same time it increases the safety of our border communities and allow for better flow of trade and visitors through our ports”. The General Services Administration (GSA) proposed expansion project seeks to provide modernization for two of the four inspection facilities in Laredo on Convent Street and Juarez and Lincoln. The renovations have an estimated cost of $61.6 million as estimated by the GSA. The proposed project seeks to expedite the process of permit processing and moving pedestrians and improve the flow of vehicle traffic while enhancing the safety and efficiency for the travelling locals and visitors. Attached you will find the Project Summary as provided by General Services Administration.
04.15.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) released the following statement on the explosions at the end of the Boston Marathon: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of all the victims that were affected this afternoon by the explosions at the Boston Marathon. As a family man and father, my heart goes out to all of the victims and their families. I commend the volunteers, first responders, and everyone else who so bravely assisted during this horrific attack. This is an unfortunate reminder that we must continue to be vigilant with homeland security. While the cause of today's explosion is under investigation, we will ensure that justice is served and find those responsible. ”
04.10.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) travelled to Mexico on Monday to attend several meetings with representatives from the House and Senate chambers and other government officials to discuss issues that directly impact both the United States and Mexico, including, border security, water availability, immigration reform, and trade and commerce. On Friday, Cuellar released a statement expressing satisfaction with the Mexican government for taking the first step in delivering water to the valley after Mexico and the International Boundary Water Commission approved a release of water from the La Fragua Dam to communities of South Texas. “After meeting with the Mexican officials, I feel confident that further cooperation between the two countries will take place so that we can address issues such as water availability and border security in a cooperative way. They expressed optimism and a willingness to work with us in moving forward an agenda that will benefit both countries,” said Congressman Cuellar. During his two-day visit Congressman Cuellar met with Senator Ninfa Salinas; Representative Marco Gonzalez; Undersecretary for North America, Sergio Alcocer; and Secretary of Defense of Mexico, Salvador Cienfuegos Zepeda.
04.08.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the City of Schertz, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $31,041 for the fire department. The money will fund various equipment purchases for the Fire Department including vehicle stabilization air bags, EMS Rescue equipment, a spreader, a cutter and a power unit. The grant comes from the Federal Emergency Management Agency FY ‘12 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The fire department was also awarded $400 for shipping. “I applaud Fire Chief David Covington and all the City of Schertz officials for their strong interest in applying for this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This money is an investment to the community, and what a better way to invest than to provide firefighters the equipment they need in an effort to keep Schertz residents safe.” “This grant will allow us to purchase much needed equipment for rescuing people from vehicles, and to purchase protective equipment for our firefighters so they can perform their job in a safe and efficient manner,” said David A. Covington, Schertz Fire Department Chief. “The nation’s highways provide a network of travel for commerce, business, and pleasure. Our ability to work safely and efficiently on the highways can help reduce congestion and increase safety for responders and the traveling public.” For more information on grants, please contact Juan Sanchez at Congressman Cuellar’s office at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov.
04.08.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar will be hosting a Coffee in Converse on Saturday, April 20, at 10 a.m. at the Converse City Boardroom, located at 405 South Seguin. The Randolph Metrocom area in Congressman Cuellar’s district includes Converse, Universal City, Windcrest, Selma, and Live Oak. This coffee will give the area’s residents the opportunity to share with Congressman Cuellar issues affecting them, including Social Security and Medicare, veterans’ benefits, and financial aid “As a U.S. Congressman, one of my priorities is to be easily accessible to my constituents and one way of doing so is by having these gatherings,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invite residents to this coffee so we can discuss current happenings at our nation’s capital.” At the coffee, Congressman Cuellar will also be distributing books from the Library of Congress.
04.05.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement after Mexico and the International Boundary Water Commission approved a release of water from the La Fragua Dam to communities of South Texas: “This evening I was encouraged by Mexico’s first step of water delivery in line with the Treaty on the Utilization of Waters to the United States. While we’re unsure of the impact this water release will have on water security for our communities and where Mexico stands in relation to the terms of the Treaty, I’m thankful to the Mexican government for this good faith effort and actively working with the United States to solve the water availability crisis near our international border. I also want to thank Congressmen Filemon Vela, Ruben Hinojosa, Pete Gallego, and Beto O’Rourke for working together as a team on behalf of all of South Texas. I will be traveling to Mexico this weekend to discuss these terms further, and to work on a long term solution with Mexican officials that strengthens the partnership between the United States and Mexico. In the future, I look forward to hosting discussing in my home town of Laredo, TX in forming a permanent water management plan between the two nations.” Earlier this week Congressman Cuellar placed a request to Mexican Ambassador Eduardo Medina-Mora regarding immediate assistance to south Texas communities and a meeting of all stakeholders in Laredo, Texas (attached). In addition, Cuellar requested assistance with the south Texas delegation from Under Secretary Jacobson in a letter that was sent on March 19, 2013.
04.04.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX28) invites taxpayers from all over the 28th district to submit their ideas on how the federal government can save money and use resources more efficiently in order to reduce the nation’s deficit. “The concept that all good ideas originate in Washington, DC, is wrong,” said Cuellar. "I want to hear directly from the taxpayers about their ideas on how to cut spending and make government programs and services more efficient. There is a lot of imagination, innovation, and brainpower in the 28th District. This is a good way to leverage technology to engage the public and get new ideas." To submit ideas on how to reform government spending, visit Congressman Henry Cuellar’s Facebook page at http://on.fb.me/fennAQ or use the Twitter handle @RepCuellar with the hashtag #spendingreform.
04.02.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) is encouraging Laredo and Webb County residents to participate in the Texas-Oklahoma Passenger Rail Study Public Meeting to be held in Laredo on Wednesday. The purpose of the meeting is for residents to provide input that will help Texas Department of Transportation (TXDOT) and Federal Railroad Administration officials make informed decisions when formulating the rail study, which includes the possibility of new high-speed passenger rail service from Oklahoma City to South Texas in Laredo. The public meeting will be held Wednesday, April 3, from 6 to 8 p.m. at the TXDOT offices located at 1817 Bob Bullock Loop. “This plan will take everything into consideration, from population growth to connectivity with other modes of transportation to the ability of the proposed corridor helping reduce regional traffic congestion,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage the area’s residents to attend this meeting and throw their support behind this project.” Background Information: In 2008, Congressman Cuellar successfully passed an amendment that required a feasibility study to expand high-speed rail to South Texas. The amendment was included in H.R. 2095, The Passenger Rail Improvement Act of 2008. In early November 2010, Congress awarded Texas and Oklahoma a $5.6 million grant from the United States Department of Transportation to TXDOT to complete necessary corridor service planning studies for new and improved high-speed intercity passenger rail along an approximate 850-mile corridor, which mirrors the route of Interstate 35 between Oklahoma City and South Texas in Laredo. The $5.6 million in planning funds will be shared with the State of Oklahoma, with Texas acting as the lead State. Towards the end of 2010, TXDOT released the Texas Rail Plan, which once again included South Texas in the plan.
03.21.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX28), today released the following statement on the FY 2014 Republican budget, which passed the U.S. House 221-207. “Our economy is at a critical stage in its recovery. These cuts are arbitrary and severe. Passing legislation that we know for a fact will slow economic growth and cost people their jobs is the wrong thing to do. This is another one-sided bill that harms the sector that has proven to be the key to a robust U.S. economy: middle class families. “Ending Medicare as we know it will have adverse effects on our seniors and our economy; this budget proposal leaves many questions unanswered with unspecified cuts. As legislators we have the responsibility to provide effective legislation that will create jobs, grow the economy and create fair economic opportunities for every American. This budget does the complete opposite.” According to the Economic Policy Institute, it is estimated the GOP Budget would cost two million jobs in 2014 and likely cost the middle class as much as $3,000 in higher taxes. It will also end Medicare provisions by replacing it with a voucher system that is not guaranteed to keep pace with health care costs over time. It also eliminates benefits from the Affordable Care Act increasing costs to seniors for preventive care services and prescription drugs. Under the GOP Budget, the student loan funding would get cut by a total of $70 billion over the next ten years.
03.14.2013	“Last week I voted against the continuing resolution that reinforces sequestration and keeps additional cuts in place. Based on current guidance, the sequestration order requires U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to make $512 million in reductions in Fiscal Year (FY) 2013, which includes a 5% reduction in salaries and expenses funding. These arbitrary cuts to federal funding negatively affect our national security by allowing continued staffing minimums for CBP officers, Border Patrol agents, and Air and Marine officers at the same level as FY 2012. Any increase in wait times at the borders will have a direct impact on our Nation’s economy. The State of Texas shares the longest stretch of the U.S.-Mexico border and will feel the sharpest sting from CBP cuts. I continue to stand with the men and women who provide border security and work so hard to protect our nation.” Additional facts on sequestration impact to CBP: Furloughs · CBP employees will be furloughed no more than 14 non-consecutive work days or 112 hours for each employee, beginning on April 21, 2013 and lasting through September 30, 2013; · Border Patrol agents would be mandated to be furloughed one day per pay period, which equates to a 10% cut in Border Patrol agents’ basic pay; Administratively Uncontrolled Overtime (AUO) · On April 7, 2013, CBP will begin de-authorization of Administratively Uncontrolled Overtime (AUO) for all CBP personnel receiving AUO; · This includes 22,064 Border Patrol agents, of which 1,848 agents are assigned to the Laredo Sector; · The reduction in pay, coupled with furloughs, would mean that Border Patrol agents would face an approximate 40% loss in pay; · The furloughs and de-authorization of AUO caused by the sequester will impact the Border Patrol’s ability to patrol the 1,014 miles of border in South Texas on a 24-hour basis. An estimated 171,000 man hours of Border Patrol operations (49,000 from furlough and 122,000 from AUO) will be lost every two weeks in South Texas, an average of 12,000 hours per day. Additional Cuts · CBP will also take actions in a number of other areas, to include reductions in travel and training, home-to-work vehicle use, fleet fuel and maintenance costs, and implementing hiring freeze; · Critical national security equipment and operations, such as Air and Marine interdiction operations will suffer reduction of flight hours (1,900 for P-3 and 18,800 for all other aircraft). Land Border Wait Times · Cuts enforced by sequester will create lane closures and increased wait times at the Ports of Entries (POE) , including the nation’s largest land POE for trade in Laredo, Texas. · A study commissioned by the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration found that border wait times at the five busiest southern border POEs (Otay Mesa, Nogales, El Paso, Laredo and Hidalgo) result in an average economic output loss of $116 million per minute of delay; · This study states that in 2008, delays cost the U.S. economy 26,000 jobs and $6 billion in output; · In addition to the impact on trade and travel caused at the POEs, the loss of income by Border Patrol agents across South Texas, approximately $6.18M every two weeks, will be less money entering the South Texas economy and the loss of hours will equate less manpower at Border Patrol checkpoints resulting in lane closures and longer wait times. Border Congressmen send letter to Speaker Boehner and Leader Cantor on sequestration effects to CBP. You can find the letter under "Related Document".
03.13.2013	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Michael McCaul (TX-10), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Pete Gallego (TX-23), and Blake Farenthold (TX-27) introduced today H.R. 1108, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2013. This bipartisan bill gives U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the authority to enter into public-private partnerships with local governments and private sector entities. As federal resources remain scarce, entering into these partnerships will allow CBP to seek alternate sources of funding to ensure its essential needs are met. Federal law currently prohibits CBP from accepting any non-federal funding. “Every day, over a billion dollars in commerce flows across the U.S.-Mexico border, making Mexico one of our most important trade partners and a crucial partner in supporting the U.S. economy and jobs,” said Congressman Cuellar, Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “Because of the crucial role CBP plays in supporting the efficient and effective flow of goods between our two countries, we must leverage every available resource to make sure that CBP has the tools it needs to do its job well, keep lines short and move goods and people across the border efficiently. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Senator John Cornyn, Congressmen Michael McCaul, Filemon Vela, Beto O’Rourke, Pete Gallego, and Blake Farenthold to respond to the needs of local stakeholders in both the public and private sectors and speed up the flow of traffic at our ports of entry.” The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2013 aims to provide alternatives to CBP so restricted federal funding does not prevent them from carrying out their duties efficiently and effectively. This flexibility allows CBP to leverage its limited resources and acquire additional tools and financing to speed up the flow of traffic at border ports of entry. These partnerships will support the construction and maintenance of CBP facilities and infrastructure and provide funding to hire addition staff at ports of entry. “Our land ports of entry must be secure and they must provide for the free flow of commerce. Both are vital to our economic and national security,” said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. “Allowing CBP to partner with local governments and private stakeholders will maximize the value of limited taxpayer resources, and it will enable the private sector, which drives our economy and creates jobs, to proactively improve the efficiency of cross-border operations.” “Securing our ports of entry and facilitating trade across the border is critical to our vibrant local economy,” said Congressman Vela. “This bill is a win-win for consumers and taxpayers, allowing CBP to use all the available resources at their disposal to maximize trade between our two nations while improving efficiency.” “Our ports of entry are the foundation of El Paso’s economy. The $80 billion in trade flowing through them each year and the $2 billion Juarenses annually contribute to our local economy help support 100,000 jobs in the region,” said Congressman O’Rourke. “The safe, efficient and predictable movement of goods and people across our borders is central to creating a 21st Century border policy. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act will provide effective new tools to CBP to improve infrastructure, expand capacity, and increase staffing at our ports of entry without creating any new costs for the federal government. I am proud to be part of this bi-partisan legislation that will help El Paso and other border communities thrive and I will do everything I can to get it passed.” “I represent a district that runs 800 miles along the Texas-Mexico border and includes five points of entry,” said Congressman Gallego (TX-23). “I’m happy to support avenues that modernize our ports, improve security, and facilitate trade and commerce. Better infrastructure allows trade and commerce to move more efficiently helping small businesses and local economies flourish.” “With ever increasing demands on our CBP by growing trade traffic, the private sector has stepped up and offered to help alleviate delays and improve border security, and help pay for it,” said Congressman Farenthold. “All we have to do is say yes. The Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act improves service, saves money, and is a yes to a good, cost effective public-private partnership.” “The Border Trade Alliance applauds this bipartisan group of leaders for seeking innovative ways to fund border infrastructure and enhance staffing levels at our ports of entry. In a time of constrained federal budgets, we must acknowledge that the federal government won’t always be able to develop infrastructure along our borders to keep pace with the volumes of trade our country conducts with Canada and Mexico. Engaging the private sector and local communities to seek solutions along our borders is the right move at the right time. The BTA stands at the ready to help advance this needed bill through the legislative process,” said Jesse Hereford, Chairman of the Border Trade Alliance in San Antonio. “Our company owns an international bridge port of entry spanning the border with Mexico. This legislation provides a viable and creative bi-partisan tool to help respond to our country’s fiscal needs by stretching our resources to secure us economically and physically. We look forward to the president signing this legislation,” said Sam F. Vale, President of Starr-Camargo Bridge Company. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced companion legislation, S. 178, the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2013 on January 30, 2013.
03.11.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), together with the U.S. Census Bureau, will host a grants videoconference in four cities across his congressional district on Wednesday, March 20, from 12 noon to 1 p.m. The purpose of the videoconference is to teach organizations in each of the communities how to effectively access census statistics to strengthen grant applications when applying for federal funds. The videoconferences will be held in the following cities: Floresville: Alamo Colleges Floresville-Center, Room 41, 1813 Tiger Lane Mission: Sharyland Independent School District, Administration Office, 1106 N. Shary Road Laredo: Texas A&M International University, Western Hemisphere Trade Center, Room 104, 5201 University Blvd. Universal City: Northeast Lakeview College, Room NLIB 311, 1201 Kitty Hawk Rd. To RSVP, call (956) 725-0639 and ask for Juan Sanchez or email him at juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov. You may also contact Mary Hinojosa at 202-225-1640 or via email at mary.hinojosa@mail.house.gov. For more information on the video conference or how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website www.house.gov/cuellar.
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) released the following statement after the U.S. House voted on FY2013 Continuing Resolution and Defense and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bills. “Today, I voted against the continuing resolution that reinforces sequestration and keeps additional cuts in place. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I understand we need to make additional cuts to reduce the nation’s deficit; however making arbitrary, across the board cuts to federal funding for education, healthcare and small businesses, is not the right way to do it. The bill reinforces across the board cuts and fails to provide a solution for the hard working middle class families that live paycheck to paycheck and depend on services such as Head Start and the transportation infrastructure needs. I have talked personally to the people on the ground and they are telling me the effects of sequestration are already being felt; in the airports and ports of entry, personnel hours are being reduced, creating longer wait times. The bottom line is that at the end of the day, hard working Americans will take home less money to provide for their families. I stand with the men and women who provide border security and work so hard to protect our nation.” Additional facts from the continuing resolution (CR) that passed today by a vote of 267-151: · The CR contains a defense bill and a military construction/Veteran Affairs bill that adjusts the FY2012 funding to meet FY2013 needs, but does not provide updated FY2013 funding for federal agencies and departments such as Homeland Security, Department of Education or Department of Transportation; · The CR negatively affects our national security by allowing continued staffing minimums for Customs and Border Protection Officers, Border Patrol Agents, and Air and Marine officers at same level as the end of Fiscal Year 2012, resulting in more significant funding reductions for overtime, training, and critical national security equipment. It also excludes funding for aviation security and flood mitigation; · State and local FEMA grants will reach its lowest funding level in history limiting funds to ports and first responders. A full report on the CR can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/13GVZUL
03.01.2013	Congressmen Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Chairmen of the Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus (CUSC), welcome the FAA’s release of the Screening Information Request (SIR) on Thursday, February 14th. The release of the SIR is a critical milestone toward the Congressionally mandated implementation of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) into the National Air Space (NAS) by 2015. The CUSC stands committed to ensuring the process is achieved as thoroughly and expeditiously as possible. UAS implementation will have an untold benefit to state and local economies while enhancing the capabilities of both private and public agencies. The February 14th release marked the one year anniversary of the 2012 FAA Modernization Act which set the requirements for UAS implementation. While certainly a milestone achievement, these actions are still significantly behind the timeline set forth in the legislation. The SIR and Request for Comments solicits “…comments on the FAA’s proposed approach for addressing the privacy questions raised by the public and Congress….” The Caucus continues to advocate that privacy issues are not the purview of the FAA, and any attempt to address these issues will further delay UAS integration. The Caucus is fully aware of the privacy implications unmanned systems pose and is actively engaged with other federal agencies, as well as Members of Congress to ensure they are adequately addressed in the proper manner. This year will prove critical for the effective integration of Unmanned Systems in the National Air Space. Its success will be driven by the effective coordination between the FAA and the various other federal agencies, state and local governments, private industry, and research and development institutions. The Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus remains focused on the continued education of congressional members and recognizes the overwhelming value of unmanned systems in the scientific, intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security communities. The members of the bipartisan caucus are committed to the growth and expansion of these systems in all sectors. More information is available at http://unmannedsystemscaucus.mckeon.house.gov/
03.01.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Congressman Lloyd Doggett in introducing H.R. 885, the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park Boundary Expansion Act of 2013. This legislation guarantees the growth of the San Antonio Missions Park and provides for the preservation of historic areas in and around San Antonio and Floresville. Joining Congressman Cuellar in cosponsoring the legislation are Congressman Pete Gallego (TX-23), Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21), and Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15). “I’m proud to join the entire San Antonio Congressional Delegation in introducing this key legislation to provide for the growth and to protect San Antonio missions for generations to come. San Antonio missions are a crucial piece of the history of our state, and we have to make sure that the National Parks Service has the ability to make needed improvements to the park and the ability to expand the areas under its protection,” said Cuellar. “The lands operated by the National Parks Service reflect our nation’s historical treasures and tell the story of our country, and it is important that Texas’ history is preserved and included among them.” Specifically, this bipartisan bill would direct the National Parks Service to conduct a study of land in Bexar and Wilson Counties to identify which lands would be suitable for inclusion in the park. The study will look into the national, cultural, recreational, scenic values and characteristics of the land in these areas. In addition, the bill would authorize the transfer of 137 acres by the San Antonio River Authority, Bexar County and the City of San Antonio to the National Parks Service. This lands transfer will allow for the expansion of the Missions Park as well as enable boundary changes that have been identified by the Cities of San Antonio and Floresville as needed to help ensure that these parks are accessible and serving the public to the fullest extent possible. Cuellar previously introduced legislation to protect and expand San Antonio missions under the authority of the National Parks Service in the 111th and 112th Congresses.
02.28.2013	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Pete Gallego (TX-23), and Beto O’ Rourke (TX-16) unified efforts to address the impact these automatic and arbitrary spending cuts will have in their respective districts when sequestration goes into effect this Friday, March 1. Earlier this week, the White House released a state-by-state report detailing the devastating impacts the sequester will have in Texas, especially along the border. According to the report, some of the areas in Texas that will be greatly impacted under sequestration include law enforcement, border security, health and education, and small businesses. “Since coming to Congress in 2005, I have worked to reform government spending in order to reduce the national deficit and debt, but making these arbitrary cuts because Congress will not act will only harm our improving economy and stall job creation. In Texas alone, benefits to small businesses, such as loan guarantees, would be reduced by $900 million, hindering economic growth for small business owners. If Congress does not come up with a solution by Friday, these additional cuts will result in over 5,000 Border Patrol agents and 2,750 CBP officers being reduced from the workforce. These jobs are critical to my district, the national economy, and our national security. We must act now to avert the sequester, protect American jobs, and get back to work,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo). "American residents across the board will face problems if the deadline is allowed to pass. Hundreds of thousands of jobs will be lost, airline travel will be interrupted and education programs like Head Start and Title 1 will see cuts, federal agency employees will be furloughed which means longer lines for constituents who need help, and those are just some of the severe problems we face if Congress doesn’t act now. Texas will not escape these drastic cuts, in fact it will be hit hard. Rest assured that many members of Congress do not want sequestration and that includes me. Sequestration is tantamount to using a machete to make cuts to our budget. Instead we want thoughtful solutions that will reduce our deficit and strengthen our economy,” said Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (D- Mercedes). “On behalf of all Texans, I have joined with my colleagues to call on the House Republican leadership to do what is right for our nation’s economy, security and families and take action this week on a balanced plan to avert these damaging and mindless spending cuts. To date, Senate and House Democrats have offered fair, balanced plans to avert these damaging cuts. These proposals are built on responsible spending cuts, increased revenues, and growth with jobs. Yet Republicans have refused to work toward compromise on a plan to reduce the deficit because they refuse to ask the wealthy to pay a little more by closing tax loopholes. With every passing day, thousands of jobs are at risk, the security of middle class families hang in the balance, and the safety of neighborhoods across the state of Texas are in jeopardy. Our nation’s economy cannot afford any further uncertainty, obstruction, and delay. Too much is at stake,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D - Houston). "Friday's sequester will negatively impact our national security and our education system. The men and women on the front lines of our nation's efforts to eliminate terrorism and drug trafficking will be furloughed and suffer drastic cuts in pay. Our nation's disadvantaged and disabled children will lose access to federally funded programs essential to their educational advancement. It has also been reported that ICE released hundreds of undocumented immigrants ahead of the sequester. I am not in a position to comment on the motive of a federal agency, but clearly the effects of sequestration on issues of Homeland Security are coming like a freight train should Congress fail to act,” said Congressman FilemonVela (D-Brownsville). “In small town West Texas, when there is a fire, everyone works together to put the fire out. No one focuses on how the fire started or who started the fire until after the fire is out. Here and now in Washington, many folks are more focused on who is to blame for the sequester than in trying to do anything about it - or worse, they use inflammatory rhetoric to add fuel to the fire. Not having a vote this week is a decision by some in Congress for decreased border security, job loss, and furloughs. It devastates local communities- and the State of Texas. Let’s put politics aside and let’s work together to avert the sequestration,” said Congressman Pete Gallego (D-Alpine). “It is time to stop playing games and blaming others for the sequester. El Pasoans are not concerned with who is at fault, but they are worried about irresponsible cuts to education and Head Start, cancelled flights at El Paso International Airport, delays in processing Social Security benefits, and regular four or five hour wait times at our ports of entry if Customs and Border Patrol Agents are furloughed. These draconian cuts could cripple economic growth and actually make it more difficult to solve our very real debt problems. Let’s find a solution and vote on it and not leave town until we do so,” said Congressman Beto O’ Rourke (D- El Paso). You can Access the White House report on sequestration impacts to the state of Texas here: http://tinyurl.com/baphpjg Contact: Lorraine Carrasco (Cuellar) 202-225-1640 Patricia Guillermo (Hinojosa) 202-225-2531 Michael J. McQuerry (Jackson Lee) 202-225-3816 Sean Trambley (Vela) 202.225.9901 Rebecca Acuña (Gallego) 202-226-1875 David Wysong (O’Rourke) (202) 225-4831
02.28.2013	“I am pleased to have voted today with my colleagues in the House for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) to ensure justice is served for the victims of domestic violence and abuse. The prevention of domestic violence and the safety and security of women should not be a partisan issue.”
02.26.2013	Report Shows Communities Along Southwest Border are Safe Today the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report on crime and violence data along the U.S. side of the southwest border, entitled Southwest Border Security: Data Are Limited and Concerns Vary about Spillover Crime along the Southwest Border (GAO-13-175). The report, requested by Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Committee’s Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, and Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) shows that, in general, crime rates have fallen in border communities in recent years and, in fact, are mostly lower than crime rates in non-border communities within the same states. The GAO found: Although there is no standard definition of ‘spillover crime’ and many federal, state and local agencies do not have the resources to track this kind of information, the GAO was able to find pertinent data on border related crime. FBI data analyzed found that violent and property crimes were generally lower along the border in 2011 than in 2004, by as much as 26 percent. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) data shows that assaults on agents were 25 percent lower in 2012 than in 2006. 31 of 37 state and local agencies did not observe violent crime from Mexico spilling into their communities. DHS has contingency plans in place if violent crime increases. Congressman Cuellar released the following statement on the report: "This report verifies that the border is as safe a place to raise a family, build a business, or enjoy retirement as nearly any other area of the country. We must remain vigilant and continue to strengthen our federal, state and local law enforcement agencies so they can keep the border secure. There are sectors where we can do a better job and I will use my new position on Appropriations to stay on top of this vital national security issue.” Congressman Thompson released the following statement with the release of the report. “This report appears to suggest that while border-related crime is a concern, border communities are largely safe places to live, work, and do business. While reality does not always match rhetoric, we should have as much information available as possible as we use all available resources to continue to improve security along the border.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee added the following statement: “Over the last several years, Congress has made unprecedented investments in border security, and though our Nation’s borders can never be fully and finally secured, it is my hope that we can continue on the road toward progress. With the sequester looming, I am concerned that our recent investments to the safety and security of border will be compromised. Under sequestration, CBP would have to absorb more than half a billion dollars in cuts, rendering the agency unable to maintain current staffing levels of Border Patrol agents and CBP Officers as mandated by Congress. The risk at our borders will never be zero, but that doesn't mean our borders are not secure or safe.” Link to Report # # # PRESS CONTACTS: (Cuellar) Lorraine Carrasco at 202-225-1640 (Thompson) Adam Comis at 202-225-9978 (Jackson Lee) Mike McQuerry at 202-225-3816
02.25.2013	The National Journal’s 2012 congressional vote ratings place Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) one of the most centrist Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Among the returning members, Congressman Cuellar is the 5th most conservative Democrat in the 112th Congress and the 1st most conservative Texas Democrat. "I support good policy and I support legislation that will benefit the families in the 28th district," stated Cuellar. "I look at the content and impact of the bill, not the political party of the bill's author. Partisan bickering has endangered our economic recovery. We need more people in the Center working to bridge the two sides,” Congressman Cuellar said. Reporters and editors from the non-partisan magazine based ratings on key votes relating to economic, social, or foreign policy issues, gauging their votes from conservative to progressive. Congressman Cuellar received a composite progressive score of 57.7, placing him in the 176th spot among 435 House Members. Cuellar stands in the 247th spot for his composite conservative score of 42.3. “I work hard to be an independent voice for the taxpayers I represent,” said Congressman Cuellar. “No one party is always right or always wrong. By working together and getting behind good ideas, we can meet the economic challenges and get our budget under control.” “The 28th District is very diverse, but we all share the same values of border security, fiscal discipline and job creation," Cuellar said. "In the coming months, I look forward to continuing to fight for the interests of the taxpayers in the district, keep the economy moving forward and finding commonsense solutions to the big problems facing our country." To access the National Journal’s 2012 vote ratings report follow this link: http://bit.ly/WcdbcW
02.12.2013	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar issued the statement below following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address: “Tonight, President Obama addressed some of the biggest issues of concern for the American people. However, there is more work that needs to be done. First, we need to work with our friends across the aisle to find an effective way to reduce our nation’s deficit. Second, the sequester is right around the corner, and it is imperative we reach a bipartisan and balanced approach to avoid additional cuts to education, health and social services. These cuts can also jeopardize our public safety, including assistance to law enforcement agencies, which are crucial to my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. In addition to protecting the middle class, Congressman Cuellar also emphasized the need for a comprehensive immigration reform. “The moment to act on immigration reform is now. It is necessary that members from both parties reach an agreement on how best to welcome immigrants to our country. This will not only enhance our immigration system, but it will also make our borders more secure, while at the same time improving trade and commerce.”
02.08.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Friday visited and toured the Alamo Colleges Floresville Center. While at the Center, he also visited an Aerospace Academy Class and spoke to the students about the importance of obtaining a higher education degree. In 2008, Congressman Cuellar was instrumental in securing the $1.429 million that started the construction of the Floresville Center. The first $429,000 came from the 2008 Appropriations Omnibus Bill, while the remaining $1 million came from a grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce -- Economic Development Administration. “When I helped secure the $1.429 million for this center, our goal was very basic; We wanted to bring new, higher education opportunities to Wilson County so that students didn’t have to leave home to start or continue their college degree,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Access to higher education is very critical to the local economy. When you have an area with high levels of college degrees and access to higher education, companies want to locate there, thus improving the local economy.” While visiting the Aerospace Academy Class, Congressman Cuellar reiterated to the students the importance of obtaining a college degree and explained to them that a person with a four-year degree will make $1 million more in their lifetime compared to a person who receives a high school diploma. “That is what a college degree means to your personal income and your family’s income. I would say that four years of college in exchange for $1 million is a good deal,” he told the students.
02.04.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) on Saturday visited the Imaginarium of South Texas, Laredo’s children’s museum, to deliver more than one hundred books donated from the Library of Congress. As part of the book-give-away, Congressman Cuellar invited children to attend the event to pick up a free book of choice. “In this age of modern technology and cable TV, we want to make sure that we teach our kids the importance of picking up a book and getting lost in a story. We just don’t want our kids to read, we want them to read at a high level,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I commend Sandra Cavazos and the Imaginarium of South Texas for their strong interest in encouraging young minds to pick up a book and read.” “Education has been and will remain a priority of mine throughout my work in the legislative branch, and providing children with a book is a way of not only expanding the imagination and providing an alternative means of entertainment, but also sparks an interest in learning and educational opportunities,” Congressman Cuellar said. Background: The Library of Congress acquires its books through exchanges with libraries in the country and abroad. Materials are added to the collections of the Library at a rate of 10,000 items per working day. Due to the surplus of books available, the Library of Congress provides materials to educational institutions, public bodies and non-profit organizations in the United States.
01.31.2013	Upon his return from Mexico City late Wednesday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) expressed satisfaction with the results of the meetings he had with members of President Enrique Peña Nieto’s cabinet. During the meetings, Cuellar and the officials discussed issues that directly impact both the United States and Mexico, including border security, immigration reform, and trade and commerce. “After meeting with the Mexican officials, I feel confident that President Peña Nieto will be a strong ally as we work together to address these issues,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The members of the President’s cabinet all expressed optimism and a willingness to cooperate in moving forward an agenda that will benefit both countries.” During his three-day visit, Congressman Cuellar met with Secretary of Government Miguel Ángel Osorio Chong; Supreme Court Justice Alfredo Gutiérrez Ortiz Mena; Secretary of Agriculture Enrique Martinez y Martinez; Foreign Ministry’s Undersecretary for North America Sergio Alcocer Martínez; General Coordinator for Civilian Protection Services Luis Felipe Puente; and Director of Tax Administration Services Aristóteles Núñez Sánchez. Cuellar also met with U.S. Ambassador Anthony Wayne and other high ranking U.S. and Mexican officials.
01.23.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), the only Texas Democrat appointed to the powerful House Committee on Appropriations, announced today that he received appointments to the Subcommittee for Homeland Security and the Subcommittee for State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs for the 113th Congress. “Homeland Security is a critical national policy segment that our nation must continue to prioritize,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is beginning his first term on the Appropriations Committee. “And, State Foreign Operations will play a vital role in our national security and international policies--particularly as it relates to our neighbor and biggest trading partner, Mexico. I am hopeful that my prior experience on the House Committee on Homeland Security, as well as my experience with the U.S.-Mexico border and trade will prove helpful to the Committee. I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to make certain we work responsibly to tackle our nation's many challenges in these areas.” As a member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee, Congressman Cuellar will review funding for the Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Patrol, ICE, the Coast Guard, FEMA, Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the Office of Domestic Preparedness Funding. The State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Subcommittee has jurisdiction within the Department of State, U.S. Mexico foreign relations, the International Boundary and Water Commission, and the Export – Import Bank. Last month, Congressman Cuellar was appointed to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, making him the only Texas Democrat to receive such leadership position on the committee in recent years. The main purpose of the Committee on Appropriations is to oversee the Federal budget, review proposed expenditures and craft the legislation that outlines annual spending for government agencies.
01.22.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted a multi-city grants videoconference in which 100 participants gained insightful knowledge of the latest tools and resources available to submit a successful grant application. Congressman Cuellar and representatives from the Congressional Research Service, Grants.gov, and The Foundation Center joined participants at throughout the district via videoconference from Washington D.C. “At today’s workshop we wanted to keep it simple: grants are available and here’s how you can apply,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have a tremendous amount of resources available and I look forward to continue bringing top-notch presenters to my district so that we can continue bringing more federal dollars for projects that benefit our communities.” Today’s event is part of a monthly series of grants videoconferences that Congressman Cuellar will host throughout the year to inform constituents about available grants in various sectors such as rural development, education and law enforcement. At today’s conference, Merete Gerli, a grants specialist from the Congressional Research Service provided an overview of the grants process. Program Managers, Judy Ceresa and Tricia Glass, gave a presentation on how grant applications are administered through the Grants.gov website. Kim Patton, training coordinator for the The Foundation Center, presented information on philanthropy resources in the grants process. The grants videoconference was broadcast at the Texas A&M International University in Laredo, the University of Texas at San Antonio, Coastal Bend College in Pleasanton, and UTPA McAllen Teaching Site in McAllen. Participants came from a wide variety of fields throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district, including city officials, county officials, non-profit organizations, school districts and higher education institutions. For more information on how to apply for federal grants, visit Congressman Cuellar’s website www.house.gov/cuellar or call (956) 725-0639.
01.16.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) announced today that the United States Department of Agriculture Farm Service Agency (USDA FSA) has declared all counties in the 28th Congressional District a disaster area due to the extreme drought. As a result of this designation, ranchers and farmers are eligible to apply with the FSA for assistance due to losses. Counties in the 28th Congressional District eligible for assistance include Atascosa, Bexar, Hidalgo, LaSalle, McMullen, Starr, Webb, Wilson, and Zapata. “We understand that last year’s drought affected us all one way or another, but no one took a harder and more direct hit than our ranchers and farmers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I encourage all affected by the drought to look into these programs and apply for assistance.” As part of the assistance program, those affected can apply for crop loss, livestock loss, and damaged farm property loss. Under crop loss, disaster programs include: 1). NAP – Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program to cover production losses for crops when federal insurance is not available; 2). SURE – Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program for crop losses in counties declared a disaster by the Secretary of Agriculture; and 3). TAP – Tree Assistance Program for tree losses. Four disaster programs are available under livestock loss, including: 1). ELAP – Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees and Farm-Raised Fish Program for livestock not covered by LIP, for grazing losses not covered by LFP, for farm-raised fish and honeybee death, and for feed losses; 2). LFP – Livestock Forage Disaster Program for grazing losses; 3). LIP – Livestock Indemnity Program for livestock deaths; and 4). CRP – Emergency Haying and Grazing of Conservation Reserve Program acreage may be authorized to provide relief to livestock producers in areas affected by a severe drought or similar natural disaster. For damaged farm property, those affected may apply for ECP – Emergency Conservation Program that helps rehabilitate farmland damaged by natural disasters and for carrying out emergency water conservation measures. Meanwhile, those affected by all the three types of losses may qualify for two programs. The EM program provides emergency loans to restore or replace essential property damaged in the disaster, finance production losses to crops and livestock, and helps fund essential family living and farm operating expenses or refinances certain debts. The DA program, also known as Disaster Set-Aside, is for producers who have direct loans with FSA and are unable to make scheduled payments. For more information on the disaster program, visit http:/disaster.fsa.usda.gov or to learn more about the local USDA FSA offices, visit http://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app?state=tx&agency=fsa.
01.14.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar invites teachers to participate in the 2013 Summer Teacher Institutes offered by the Library of Congress in Washington DC. The institutes consist of five different weeklong seminars that will provide educators with useful and necessary tools on how to integrate resources into classroom teaching. “This is a tremendous opportunity for teachers all over the district. The Library of Congress is filled with top notch resources that will help enhance the learning environment for students and teachers. I encourage teachers to take advantage of these institutes and enhance their professional development,” Congressman Cuellar said. Teachers who participate in the institutes will have the option of completing additional work to obtain up to three graduate credits from the George Mason University. Breakfast, lunch, tuition and materials are included at no additional costs. Participants will be responsible for lodging and transportation to and from the Library of Congress. The sessions will be held on the following dates: Session 1: June 10-14, 2013; Session 2: June 17-21, 2013; Session 3: July 22-26, 2013; Session 4: July 29-August 2, 2013; Session 5: August 5-9, 2013; Deadline to submit an application is February 4, 2013 and it can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/ylN5bM.
01.04.2013	U.S. Congressmen John Barrow (GA-12) and Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, H.J. Res 4. Under this amendment, the President of the United States must submit, and Congress must pass, an annual budget that is balanced. Currently, 49 states have some form of a balanced budget requirement. “For decades, the federal government has written checks it can’t cover,” said Congressman Barrow, Co-Chair for Administration of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. “We’ve reached a point where our debt is unsustainable, and unless we act now to get our finances in order, future generations will be forced to pay for this out of control spending. Our bill requires the federal government to operate just like folks in Georgia – spending only what we can afford and balancing our budgets, it’s that simple.” “As a family man, I believe we have a responsibility to our children and our grandchildren to find a practical, commonsense solution to the deficit and debt. This will take members from both sides of the aisle working together in good faith to tackle our budget problems and reduce the deficit, which will put us on the road to paying off our national debt,” said Congressman Cuellar, member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. With an annual balanced budget, the federal government would prohibit spending for a fiscal year from exceeding total revenue for that year unless Congress, by a three-fifths roll call vote of the House and Senate, authorizes the specific excesses.
01.03.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) on Thursday was sworn into a fifth term as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. He was elected to Congress in 2004 and was first sworn into office in January 2005. “First and foremost, I thank God for giving me the opportunity to return to our nation’s capitol and continue working for the things that matter most to the 28th Congressional District of Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “There are many important pending issues that we are going to have to tackle this Congress, but I am a firm believer that by working together with members of both parties, we will work in the best interest of those we represent and complete our tasks at hand.” During the 113th Congress, which started at noon on Thursday, Congressman Cuellar will be a member of the House Appropriations Committee and Vice-Chairman of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. The main purpose of the Committee on Appropriations is to oversee the Federal budget, review proposed expenditures and craft the legislation that outlines annual spending for government agencies. For Congressman Cuellar, as a fiscally conservative member of Congress, having been assigned to this committee speaks of his continuous efforts to maintain a balanced budget and reduce the nation’s deficit when allocating federal funds. Congressman Cuellar is the only Democratic member from Texas on the Appropriations Committee. The House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee’s purpose is to select fellow members for committee assignments and to advise party leaders on policy. The committee is also charged with promoting the Democratic Caucus message. “I look forward to continue working with my fellow members in the committee and the rest of the House Democrats,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is also a Senior Whip. “This leadership position will give me the opportunity to carry on with my commitment of advocating for the middle class, small businesses, and our seniors.”
01.02.2013	Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement after the House passed the Senate legislation to make tax cuts for the middle class permanent, extend critical tax credits for working families, and avert the so-called “fiscal cliff”: "This compromise and the accompanying vote were long overdue. It was imperative that Congress got together to support the bipartisan, Senate-passed legislation to avoid going over the “fiscal cliff”. In order to stop $500 billion in automatic tax increases on 99 percent of American households, prevent massive cuts, and halt interruptions in critical services, both sides had to make concessions. While this is not the bill I would have drafted and no one is likely to be happy with every provision, I understand that immediate action with the most consensus was required for the sake of strengthening the U.S. economy and protecting our fellow Americans. It is important to note that the inability of Congress to work in a bipartisan way over the past few years to take on our toughest issues created this crisis. Unfortunately, if we fail to learn the lessons of this narrowly-averted crisis, the Congress may end right back up in a similar spot in the near future. Each member of Congress has a responsibility to work together to craft common sense solutions to the nation's challenges. We were sent here to roll up our sleeves, get to work, and build consensus on the tough issues. I hope the new Congress does a better job at that."
12.05.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) on Tuesday was chosen to remain as Vice-Chairman of the House Steering and Policy Committee in the 113th Congress. Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi made the announcement Tuesday. The House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee’s main purpose is to set policy and to select fellow members for committee assignments. The committee is also charged with promoting the Democratic Caucus message. For Congressman Cuellar, having been reappointed to this committee speaks of his strong efforts to promote the Democratic agenda and his willingness to work with members of both parties. In his first term on the Policy and Steering Committee, Cuellar worked closely with Democratic leadership on messaging and helped coordinate communications strategies. “I thank Leader Pelosi for considering me once again for this position and for her confidence in me to remain as Vice-Chairman of the Steering Committee. I look forward to continue working with my fellow members in the committee and the rest of the House Democrats,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is also a Senior Whip. “This leadership position will give me the opportunity to carry on with my commitment of advocating for the middle class, small businesses, and our seniors.”
11.27.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s legislation, H.R. 915, better known as the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force Act, today passed the U.S. House of Representatives 397-4. This was the final consideration needed at the Legislative Branch before the legislation is sent to the President’s desk for signature. The bill is returning to the House for consideration after passing the Senate this past September with an amendment. The Border Enforcement Security Task Force initiative, also known as BEST, seeks to enhance border security while reducing potential threats along the border by (a) facilitating collaboration between federal, state, local, tribal, and foreign law enforcement agencies to execute coordinated activities in furtherance of border security and homeland security; and (b) enhancing information-sharing among such agencies. “BEST Units will help ensure that the Department of Homeland Security, along with its law enforcement partners at all levels of government; will continue to combat the threat of trans-national crime in the border region. This legislation will provide significant aid to the Department of Homeland Security and law enforcement partners to diminish crime and make our border communities safer. I am very pleased to say that the BEST program originated in Laredo, Texas and now we have 34 of these units across the nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I greatly appreciate Ranking Member Bennie Thompson, Chairman Peter King, and the Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee, Michael McCaul for their support of this important piece of legislation.” The BEST program initiated in 2006, led by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The program is based on partnerships between law enforcement officials and agencies at the local, state, and federal level. Its main purpose is to intercept and dismantle criminal organizations that threaten border security. The bill is named in memory of HSI Special Agent and BEST unit member Jaime Zapata who was killed in line of duty last year. Special Agent Zapata served at the ICE office in Laredo, Texas. “I want to congratulate Rep. Cuellar on the final passage of his bill in memory of Special Agent Jaime Zapata, who lost his life helping secure the Nation’s borders. His bill will help secure our Nation’s borders and help dismantle criminal organizations by creating cross-agency teams to combat them. H.R. 915 received strong bipartisan support in both the Senate and House earlier this year,” said the Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security Bennie Thompson.
10.17.2012	“My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of State Senator Mario Gallegos Jr. I truly admire his dedication to the people of Texas, especially in Houston. He was a dedicated lawmaker as demonstrated throughout his 20 years of public service. His legacy in the Texas State Legislature will be remembered from years to come.”
10.16.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $1,501,012 federal grant for the State Veterans’ Home in Floresville. The award, granted by the Department of Veterans affairs, will defray the costs to replace the HVAC energy management control system, the water heating equipment, the nurse calling system, and the nurse’s stations. “This grant will go a long way in improving the services provided to our veterans in Texas. Our veterans have given full measures of devotion, often sacrificing their time, their youth, and in some cases their health and life; it is our obligation to ensure veterans receive the assistance they deserve”, said Congressman Cuellar. "Our veterans have more than earned our support," said Kevin Warren, Deputy Commissioner for Veterans Homes with the VLB. "We're thankful to be able to provide them with the best care anywhere at our Texas State Veterans Homes." The money will also assist in the upgrade of the fire alarm system and to make renovations to the building’s kitchenettes and roof.
10.16.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded Poteet Independent School District $1.2 million for the Poteet Elementary School Counseling Program (PESCP). The PESCP has been designed to meet the needs of elementary and junior high school students. The students will be taught alternatives to negative behaviors like violence, delinquency and substance abuse. “I commend Poteet ISD Superintendent Andres Castillo, board members, and everyone else who had a role in obtaining this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is through intervention programs such as the PESCP that we are able to rescue many of our students from going in the wrong direction. The PESCP has six objectives: 1. Increase the intellectual development and academic performance of Poteet ISD elementary and junior high school students by hiring school counselors, social workers and psychologists; 2. Improve students’ attitudes and behaviors by utilizing counseling services to teach alternatives to negative behaviors like violence, delinquency and substance abuse; 3. Provide all students access to appropriate, necessary and beneficial counseling services; 4. Maximize services through efficient management, partnerships and outreach programs; 5. Provide high-quality professional development for all counselors, teachers and school personnel; and 6. Increase parental involvement. “On behalf of the school district’s administrators, teachers, and staff, I thank Congressman Cuellar for helping us obtain this grant,” said Poteet ISD Superintendent Andres Castillo. “This grant will truly make a difference in the lives of many of our students.”
10.15.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced two grants totaling $650,000 for Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN). The federal funds will help establish a Webb County Teen Court and expand the Listo Para Responder Prevention Project. “I commend SCAN and Judge Oscar Liendo for the strong interest they place in helping our troubled teenagers. Many times, all these kids need is for someone to show them that they care for them and that they are valued members of society,” said Congressman Cuellar. Specifically, the teen court grant is for $600,000 and the Listo Para Responder is receiving $50,000. The purpose of creating a teen court is to prevent troubled teenagers from becoming repeat offenders in the juvenile system, while the Listo Para Responder project will provide HIV prevention services to Hispanic women in Laredo. “The Webb County Teen Court will allow teen volunteers to provide positive role-modeling for peers who are beginning to get in trouble and to give them the help they need to prevent them from getting involved in the criminal justice system or from developing substance abuse problems,” said SCAN CEO Isela Dabdoub. As part of the teen court, SCAN is partnering with Oscar Liendo, Justice of the Peace Precinct 1, Place 2, and will integrate substance abuse and trauma treatment services for teen court participants in an effort to discourage them from being repeat offenders. With the exception of the judge, the teen court will be made up of local teenagers who have volunteered to serve as prosecuting and defense attorneys as well as jury members. The project will serve a total of 200 youth from the ages of thirteen to eighteen. “The teen court program provides an exciting and new opportunity for students in our community to get involved in the judicial process,” said Judge Oscar Liendo. “Our volunteers are able and ready to get the program running in full swing and we look forward to successful outcomes.” The Listo Para Responder program is intended to provide HIV prevention services to at least 200 Hispanic women 18 years and older.
10.15.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced two grants totaling $650,000 for Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN). The federal funds will help establish a Webb County Teen Court and expand the Listo Para Responder Prevention Project. “I commend SCAN and Judge Oscar Liendo for the strong interest they place in helping our troubled teenagers. Many times, all these kids need is for someone to show them that they care for them and that they are valued members of society,” said Congressman Cuellar. Specifically, the teen court grant is for $600,000 and the Listo Para Responder is receiving $50,000. The purpose of creating a teen court is to prevent troubled teenagers from becoming repeat offenders in the juvenile system, while the Listo Para Responder project will provide HIV prevention services to Hispanic women in Laredo. “The Webb County Teen Court will allow teen volunteers to provide positive role-modeling for peers who are beginning to get in trouble and to give them the help they need to prevent them from getting involved in the criminal justice system or from developing substance abuse problems,” said SCAN CEO Isela Dabdoub. As part of the teen court, SCAN is partnering with Oscar Liendo, Justice of the Peace Precinct 1, Place 2, and will integrate substance abuse and trauma treatment services for teen court participants in an effort to discourage them from being repeat offenders. With the exception of the judge, the teen court will be made up of local teenagers who have volunteered to serve as prosecuting and defense attorneys as well as jury members. The project will serve a total of 200 youth from the ages of thirteen to eighteen. “The teen court program provides an exciting and new opportunity for students in our community to get involved in the judicial process,” said Judge Oscar Liendo. “Our volunteers are able and ready to get the program running in full swing and we look forward to successful outcomes.” The Listo Para Responder program is intended to provide HIV prevention services to at least 200 Hispanic women 18 years and older.
10.10.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) today announced a $974,118 grant for the 406th Judicial District Adult Drug Court Program. The funds, which come from the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, will be used to expand and enhance the existing drug court treatment services for adult male and female defendants. Specifically, the funds will enhance current treatment services by integrating and implementing Motivational Enhancement Therapy for residential and outpatient clients. The goal of the adult drug court program is to break the cycle of alcohol and drug related crimes through court intervention, education and treatment by introducing substance abusing & dependent individuals into a positive, drug-free and healthy lifestyle. In addition, the drug court program also aims to increase public awareness on the many issues surrounding substance abuse & dependence, including its effects on the individual, the family and the community. “I commend Judge Oscar Hale for his vision in continuing with the adult drug court program. Many times, the doors are shut on these offenders, but Judge Hale continues to find a way to help them out and reintegrate them into society,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is programs like these that truly make a difference in the community. Once sober, it is a lot easier for these individuals to enter the workforce and find a job, thus contributing to the overall well-being of our community.” "The 406th Drug Court Program is on the front line of the war on drugs -- but our war is focused on eliminating the demand for drugs by treating one addiction at a time,” said 406th District Court Judge Oscar J. Hale, Jr. “The harsh reality is that the children in our community are being targeted as potential drug users and we must join together to educate them and prevent new addictions from forming and thus eliminating the demand for drugs." Currently, the program services Webb County residents over the age of 17 who have a history of drug abuse and/or drug-related crimes, and who are not felony assault offenders or violent offenders and who no have weapon offenses. Program specific objectives include: 1.) promote self-sufficiency by reducing drug abuse through drug court treatment; 2.) provide an integrated program of drug treatment, drug abuse education, and rehabilitation services; 3.) promote public safety by reducing recidivism; 4.) improve mental health status for drug court participants as well as prevention and treatment of infectious diseases; and 5.) evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the program and to promote future funding and development of the program with diversified funds.
10.09.2012	Hispanic Business Magazine has named Congressman Henry Cuellar as one of the 50 most influential Hispanics across the United States for 2012. The list includes individuals from the federal government, directors of non-profit organizations, state and congressional legislators, and from the private sector. “I want to thank Hispanic Business Magazine for naming me as one of the 50 most influential Hispanics of the nation. I am humbled by this recognition”, said Congressman Cuellar. Among the others acknowledged are Annette Martinez, Vice-President of Operations at State Farm Insurance; George Ramirez, Chief Diversity Executive at Union Bank; and Sonia Dula Head of Global Wealth & Investment Management for Latin America at Bank of America. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and the Castro brothers, Julian and Joaquin were also included on the list.
10.02.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today the City of Hidalgo will receive a $250,000 federal grant to help fund the “Strategic Master Plan for Historic District” in Hidalgo. The funds are being awarded by the Economic Development Administration for the development of a master plan to increase tourism and commerce in Hidalgo historic district. “I congratulate the City of Hidalgo and Hidalgo’s City Manager, Joe Vera, for his efforts to expand businesses and boost the local economy. The new Mercado will create an incentive for tourists to visit the City of Hidalgo and subsequently invest in our local market”, said Congressman Cuellar. “The EDA monies will be used as the impetus for future of the Hidalgo Viejo Historical District the City of Hidalgo will be able to contract professional services to assist with the development of a Comprehensive Strategic Plan and Master Plan for Hidalgo Viejo Historic District. Without the support of Congressman Cuellar this project would not have been possible. Mayor Martin Cepeda and the Hidalgo City Council are extremely appreciative of the support the City has received from Congressman Cuellar and Regional Director Pedro Garza”, said Joe Vera, Hidalgo’s City Manager. The Strategic Master Plan for Historic District seeks to make the City of Hidalgo a commercial center with a focus in tourism and local business development. The City’s Economic Development Corporation intends to build a “small business incubator”, a 4,500 square foot facility to establish vendors. Its main purpose is to increase retail, trade and tax revenues to bring economic benefits for the community.
09.25.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) announced today that the Department of Transportation, through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), has awarded the Laredo International Airport $2.8 million to mitigate airport noise. “These funds provide necessary assistance to residents in close proximity to the airport – allowing the flow of travelers and goods to continue stimulating our local economy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank Mayor Raul Salinas and Airport Manager Jose Luis Flores for their commitment to homeowners living around the Laredo International Airport area.” The funds come from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program and add to the recent award earlier this month of $1.2 million for noise mitigation purposes in the residential area adjacent to the Airport. The noise program, which began in 1994, allows the homeowner within the designated noise contour area to choose between three mitigation measures. The airport can acquire the property, purchase an easement (at 8 percent of the appraised value of the property) or insulate the home. “As our airport continues to grow in service and capacity, it is important that it also be a good neighbor to the surrounding community. The $2.8 million noise mitigation grant will go a long way to reduce the airport’s impact to the neighborhood, ensuring the quality of life for Laredo residents,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. In addition to the $1.2 million grant awarded earlier this month, the $2.8 million will assist 416 homeowners. New noise contours are currently being developed and will determine future funding under the noise program. The noise study is projected to be complete in December of this year.
09.25.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s legislation, H.R. 915, better known as the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force bill, was considered and passed by the United States Senate on Friday. This legislation seeks to enhance border security while reducing at the same time potential threats along the border. This initiative, also known as BEST, will (a) facilitate collaboration between federal, state, local, tribal, and foreign law enforcement agencies to execute coordinated activities in furtherance of border security and homeland security; and (b) will enhance information sharing among such agencies. “It is imperative to support programs like these and make sure we emphasize the collaboration between agencies to effectively execute measures that keep our border communities safe. I am proud to say the BEST program originated in Laredo, Texas, and it has proven to be crucial and effective in intercepting and reducing illegal activity across the border. I thank Senator Lieberman and Senator Collins for their efforts and help towards the passage of the H.R. 915 through the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and on the Senate floor” said Congressman Cuellar. BEST initiated in 2006, led by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The program is based on partnerships between law enforcement officials and agencies at the local, state, and federal level. Its main purpose is to intercept and dismantle criminal organizations that threaten border security. The legislation passed in the Senate by voice vote with one amendment. The amended bill will be reconsidered by the House once it comes back to session in November.
09.18.2012	Joined by City of Laredo officials, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) today announced a $300,000 grant for the health department. The funds, which come from the Food and Drug Administration and which will be distributed over a three-year period, will be used for a food inspection innovation project to help reduce the risks for food borne illnesses. With the funds, the city will upgrade and update its automated data management surveillance system, increase its investigation enforcement, and enhance its field training for the Environmental Health Services Division. All this will be accomplished through two objectives: capacity building and workforce development. “I commend Mayor Raul Salinas, city council members, and Health Department Director Hector Gonzalez for going after these funds in an effort to maintain the well-being of our residents,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With so many eating establishments in our city, many times it’s hard to track each one of them, but the upgrade of the surveillance system and more investigation enforcement will play a key role in keeping our residents – both young and old – free of food-borne illnesses and diseases.” The City of Laredo Health Department serves a regional population of 300,000 in its service area, which includes Webb, Zapata, Jim Hogg, and Duval counties. Due to trade and commerce, the tourists grow the population daily by an additional 75,000-100,000. “Thanks to the grant from the FDA, the City of Laredo Health Department will be able to continue their work of keeping the Laredo community safe from any food borne illnesses, with enhancements to their equipment, surveillance and training,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “It is this type of support from the federal government that helps our municipal government keep public safety as a priority.” “The food management innovation grant will allow us to build on our food-borne surveillance and enforcement investigations and improve our tracking of illegal food management and illegal food vending, and inappropriate storage of food. It will also allow us to conduct community education and awareness efforts for both the public and food establishments. This will ensure safe food management because the public will know to only buy from permitted vendors,” said Dr. Hector F. Gonzalez, Director of the City of Laredo Health Department.
09.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement after U.S. House Speaker Boehner commented that “he was not confident at all” that we could avoid the fiscal cliff. Yesterday, Moody’s Investors Service issued report of a possible lowering of the government’s triple-A credit rating if fiscal talks fail. “While the fiscal cliff is on the horizon, we are not on the edge. Congress has time. Boehner has halted progress before budget negotiations even start. This is prematurely throwing his hands up at a time when we need to work toward a compromise to avoid the United States falling into a deep recession. “In the most dire warning from the Congressional Budget Office, it reported that the U.S. economy is faced with recession and the unemployment rate would jump to 9 percent should tax cuts expire on January 1, 2013, while simultaneously defense and non-defense budgets are cut by $1.2 trillion. In this case, two negatives won’t make a positive and we need to work to avoid a recession, plain and simple. “The same day Moody’s report said that the budget talks are instrumental to the U.S. rating outlook, the House of Representatives Speaker has chosen to wash his hands clean of work before they even get dirty on budget talks. I am disappointed to hear the Speaker’s lack of confidence, but believe we can come to the table for Americans and the betterment of the U.S. economic outlook and remain in session until we reach a compromise. We need to have confidence in ourselves; the only way to achieve this is in a bipartisan way.”
09.11.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) today announced his bill, the “Government Customer Service Improvement Act, passed by unanimous consent in the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support. The bill seeks to serve the taxpayers by improving customer service across federal agencies. “This good government bill ensures that taxpayers get the quality service they deserve when interacting with federal agencies. When nearly half of American households are relying on government aid and millions of others encounter the federal government on a daily basis, whether through the airport by Transportation Security Administration or at our border port inspections by Customs and Border Protection, this bill puts the taxpayer first,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Too often we hear that Americans’ are frustrated with government service. It is our responsibility to act when we hear that students are having difficulty with federal student loans or when seniors experience a delay in their retirement benefits. Every taxpayer, every day will benefit from this legislation.” The Government Customer Service Improvement Act: · Improves customer service standards by requiring the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop performance measures. This will determine whether federal agencies are providing high-quality customer service and improving service delivery to agency customers. · Raises the bar for enhancing quality and access by establishing standards to increase the quality of customer service and enhance access to federal information and services. This will be accomplished by requiring agencies to collect information from their customers regarding the quality of service and ensures that customer feedback is used when developing standards. · Puts a face on accountability by creating a customer relations representative within each federal agency who is directed to issue guidelines and standards for customer service. These results will then be made public. U.S. Senators Mark Warner (D-VA) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) introduced a companion bill related to improving the federal agency customer service. S. 3455 is the Senate version of Rep. Cuellar’s House bill H.R. 538. “Today’s action on Rep. Cuellar’s commonsense legislation is a positive step forward. Citizens should expect federal agencies to deliver customer services at least as well as the private sector does, but this often is not the case," Senator Warner said. “Many of our veterans still wait too long for critical medical services, and federal retirees often must wait months before they begin to receive full retirement benefits. That simply is not acceptable.” According to surveys conducted last year by the Federal Customer Experience Study, only 31% of surveyed Americans are very satisfied with customer service by the federal government, while 79% said the government can do a better job. “Just like the private sector strives to provide excellent customer service to bring in business, the federal government should embed better service to bring efficiency,” Congressman Cuellar noted. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, H.R. 538 does not have a significant cost. Currently, U.S. law does not require federal agencies’ customer service standards. H.R. 538 passed the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in April with bipartisan, unanimous support. The bill now heads to the United States Senate where it awaits consideration.
08.24.2012	Sixty-two years after his death in the Korean War, Private First Class Ricardo Castor, Jr. was properly laid to rest today when Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) unveiled a Memorial Services Program headstone for the fallen soldier. PFC Castor, a lifelong Laredoan, served in the U.S. Army during the Korean War and was killed in action on November 30, 1950. Cuellar’s office assisted PFC Castor’s family with securing the proper documentation to obtain a headstone from the Veterans Administration. “PFC Castor honored us with his service, and it is our obligation to ensure that this hero’s resting place is marked with a headstone that preserves his legacy,” said Cuellar. “Today PFC Castor is laid to rest with the same honor in which he lived his life. It is a privilege to have played a role in assisting the Castor family in making sure PFC Castor is given the recognition he earned in his honorable service to our county.” A lifelong resident of Laredo, Texas, PFC Castor was born in Laredo on November 2, 1927 and worked at a local pharmacy before enlisting in the U.S. Army and deploying to the Korean War. After initially being classified as missing in action, PFC Castor was declared killed in action by hostile fire on November 30, 1950. Castor’s remains went unfound for decades before being discovered in June 2004. After extensive DNA testing using the blood and DNA samples of his sister, Mrs. Trinidad Castor-Silva, the remains of PFC Castor were positively identified on January 9, 2009. PFC Castor was initially laid to rest in an unmarked grave because his family did not have the proper documentation required by the Department of Veterans Affairs to obtain a Memorial Services Program headstone. After being contacted by Castor’s family, Cuellar’s office found and sent numerous records to the Memorial Services Program under the Department of Veterans Affairs, including ancestry documents, PFC Castor’s military Service Number and information about his enlistment and cause of death. “While today’s unveiling is long overdue, this monument to PFC Castor’s extraordinary service and the bravery, courage and sacrifice he demonstrated in the name of our nation will preserve his legacy for generations to come,” said Cuellar. For his honorable and meritorious service, Castor was awarded the Purple Heart, the Combat Infantryman’s Badge, the Korean Service Medal, the United Nations Service Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Korean Presidential Unit Citation and the Republic of Korea War Service Medal. During the ceremony, Cuellar presented Castor’s sister, Mrs. Trinidad Castor-Silva, with a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in PFC Castor’s honor.
08.16.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), in conjunction with the Council of the Americas, orchestrated a first of its kind roundtable discussion on U.S.-Mexico competitiveness to examine challenges and offer solutions about ways to improve the flow of commerce along the U.S.-Mexico border. The conversations included the viewpoints of an array of high-level participants, including both the U.S. and Mexican Ambassadors, private sector leaders, public sector officials and higher education experts from both sides of the border. The roundtable discussion centered on methods to facilitate trade and strengthen relations between the U.S. and Mexico while improving border security for communities along the border. “The Rio Grande River is a natural border that unites, rather than divides, the U.S. and Mexico, and our exchange of commerce each day is unlimited in benefits and economic growth for Laredo and our country. Laredo is a prime location for a conversation about trade, considering it ranks number one in the nation for North American trade land ports,” said Cuellar, who is Chairman of the House of Representatives’ Pro-Trade Caucus. “Candid discussions about keeping our countries competitive in the public, private and education sectors are necessary for our city to retain its position as a trade hub. By gathering together and talking about realistic solutions for strengthening U.S. and Mexico’s commerce flow, we are working to support manufacturers, small businesses, ranchers and other members of our community who rely on the trade industry for their livelihoods.” Congressman Cuellar, in coordination with Council of the Americas, convened a group of more than 50 prominent participants with expertise on the issues discussed. The discussion opened with remarks from John Negroponte, Chairman of the Council of the Americas and former Ambassador to Mexico, and Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Council of the Americas, I am delighted to join Congressman Cuellar at this conference whose primary purpose is to highlight the contribution of the border region to the economic well-being and prosperity of both our countries,” said Ambassador Negroponte. During the roundtable discussion, participants discussed a wide range of issues affecting the flow of commerce in the border region. After examining the primary obstacles faced by business operating along the border and the challenge of infrastructure deficits, the conversation turned to possible solutions for these problems, including developing a joint strategy to increase regional competitiveness, improving border management, the possibility of creating public-private partnerships to address infrastructure needs and expanding enrollment in trusted traveler and shipper programs. “Thank you to Ambassador John Negroponte and everyone who participated in this important conversation. The U.S. and Mexico share far more than a border, and today’s discussion reinforced that the interconnectedness between our two countries makes cooperation between us vital to the future of both our of economies,” said Congressman Cuellar. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
08.09.2012	Laredo, TX—Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) joined U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in notifying residents of the Rio Grande Valley that CBP will soon begin testing and evaluating whether surplus Department of Defense (DoD) equipment can be re-purposed for CBP border security efforts in the United States. Beginning this week, CBP will be evaluating “aerostats”—large, balloon-like devices—by launching them in the airspace above the Rio Grande Valley area. “I want to help CBP get the word out to South Texans that the shapes they may see in the sky during the testing of these aerostats are not only nothing to worry about—but in fact an example of CBP’s continued efforts to maximize the use of resources that taxpayers have already paid for,” said Cuellar. “One of my highest priorities in Congress is to connect existing DoD resources with present needs along the southwest border to help make sure that we aren’t letting anything go to waste. During these difficult times of limited budgets, cooperation and coordination between government agencies is especially important, and I thank CBP and DoD for working together.” CBP has stated that the evaluation of former DoD equipment and technology will support its ongoing efforts to leverage and maximize resources effectively and efficiently. The agency plans to evaluate additional equipment in the coming months. CBP is the unified border agency within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security charged with the management, control and protection of U.S. borders at and between official ports of entry. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s e-mail newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
08.02.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) helped pass a disaster aid package that will provide $383 million in drought relief to famers and producers, while also cutting the federal deficit by $256 million. This package, called the Agricultural Disaster Assistance Act, will provide disaster assistance for producers of livestock and fruits and vegetables, whose access to disaster relief has been compromised by the inability of the House of Representatives to pass a full five-year farm bill package. Over 75% of agriculture producers in the United States are currently being affected by drought. “As we struggle through one of the worst droughts we’ve seen in the last hundred years, the bill I helped pass will provide immediate relief to the farmers and producers we depend on to keep food on the tables of Texans and families across America,” said Cuellar. “Like many farmers and producers, I would have strongly preferred that we had also voted on a full five-year farm bill package give farmers, producers, and families relying on nutrition programs the strong and fair farm bill they deserve. However, the drought relief assistance we passed today is necessary to make sure that Congress can immediately provide emergency assistance to the 75% of agriculture producers who are affected by drought.” This bill reauthorizes four agricultural disaster assistance programs that expired at the end of the 2011 fiscal year and will provide assistance and certainty to farmers and producers in the 2012 fiscal year. The four programs it reauthorizes are the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP), Livestock Indemnity Payments (LIP), Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish (ELAP) and Tree Assistance Program (TAP). Key farm groups issued a statement indicating that they would have preferred that the House of Representatives consider the five-year, comprehensive farm bill that Cuellar supported as a member of the House Agriculture Committee rather than this stand-alone disaster assistance bill. The farm bill passed by the Agriculture Committee includes the same retroactive reauthorization of these four disaster assistance programs. Cuellar has led a bipartisan coalition of members in urging Speaker John Boehner and the House Leadership to bring the full farm bill to a vote so that farmers and producers are not left in limbo. Both the Senate and the House Agriculture Committee have passed versions of the farm bill. The version of the farm bill supported by Cuellar passed the House Agriculture Committee on July 12 with a strong bipartisan vote of 35-11. “Congress has an obligation to move swiftly to reauthorize the programs that feed American families,” said Cuellar. “With expiration dates on a number of farm-related programs barreling toward us, inaction carries potentially devastating consequences for many farmers, producers and American families. The 2012 Farm Bill isn’t perfect yet, but let’s bring this bill for debate on the House floor to make sure that the voices of farmers and families affected by this bill are heard.” If Congress does not act to reauthorize the farm bill, many existing programs—including disaster assistance and livestock and crop assistance—will expire on September 30, 2012. Failure to pass a new farm bill or extend existing policy would mean the elimination of many of the decades-old programs on which American farmers and producers rely. The interruption of these effective and economical programs would cause massive disruptions for farmers and producers and carry the risk of causing domestic food prices to skyrocket. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.31.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced that the Department of Education has awarded McAllen ISD’s Department of Physical Education and Health Instruction Services a $715,495 grant under the Carol M. White Physical Education Program. The grant is expected to stand for a total of 3 years and total $2,146,485. “Over the past three decades, childhood obesity rates in America have tripled, and this trend is hitting the Hispanic community especially hard. By giving kids the tools they need to make healthy decisions, we’re helping them put themselves on a path toward a healthier life,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Obesity leads to chronic problems like diabetes, heart disease and high blood pressure which carry a high price tag in medical bills, so this federal funding is an important long term investment in our community’s health. Thank you to McAllen ISD for your commitment to nurturing our students’ bodies as well as their minds.” The McAllen Independent School District will partner with the Texas VALLEY (Valuing Activity with Lifestyle Lessons to Encourage Youth), a community-wide partnership, to enact a series of improvements to the K-12 physical education program. The partnership will put an obesity prevention model strategy in place designed to increase the percentage of K-12 students meeting Texas State standards, implement a more focused physical activity, nutrition and health program and implement a tracking system to monitor student success. “What better time to receive this grant than when the world’s most athletic men and women are competing on a world stage at the Olympics,” said McAllen ISD Superintendent Dr. James Ponce. “When we educate students, it is with the notion that we want healthy minds and healthy bodies.” This grant arrives on the heels of a report by CNBC that the McAllen-Edinburg-Mission metropolitan area is the most obese in the nation. The report projected that if the region lowered the obesity rate from 38.8 percent to 15 percent, it could save $252 million a year in medical costs annually. Background: The Carol M. White Physical Education Program provides grants to initiate, expand, or enhance physical education programs, including after-school programs, for students in K-12 grade. Grant recipients must implement programs that help students make progress toward meeting state standards.
07.30.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) issued the following statement: “Texas lost a great leader—and I lost a friend—with the passing of Chad Foster this weekend. Chad was a champion for South Texans who used his voice to advocate for common sense immigration and border security policies to strengthen and secure our region. Chad was an exemplary mayor, a respected leader and a tireless public servant. My thoughts and prayers are with the Foster family during this difficult time. For his leadership, his intelligence and his dedication to the region that he loved, Chad will be missed.”
07.30.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) marked the 47th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare. Medicare provides a guaranteed set of benefits and affordable premiums to seniors and people with disabilities, including approximately 3,044,936 Texans. President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law on July 30, 1965. “Today, we celebrate Medicare’s tremendous success in providing security to seniors and Americans with disabilities, including the approximately 3,044,936 Texans who rely on these benefits for their health care needs,” said Cuellar. “I’m proud that I’ve helped pass legislation that makes Medicare work better by extending its solvency, increasing benefits and reducing prescription drug costs for our seniors. I’ll continue to work to strengthen and protect Medicare so that it remains a bedrock promise for future generations.” Today, Medicare provides comprehensive health care coverage to 48 million Americans, including 40 million seniors and 8 million people under 65 with disabilities. Medicare is enormously popular with seniors and people with disabilities –Medicare beneficiaries are more satisfied with their coverage than Americans with private insurance. In 1964, only 51 percent of Americans over 65 had health care coverage; today, coverage covers almost all seniors in that age range. As a result, both seniors’ health care and economic security have greatly increased. In 1964, life expectancy for Americans was only 70.2 years old. Today, life expectancy is 78.5 years old. “On this 47th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare, I stand with our seniors and recommit to rejecting plans that will end Medicare as we know it and increase costs on seniors and people with disabilities,” said Cuellar. “Last week, I held a telephone town hall meeting to hear from Texans about how Medicare affects their lives. When I took a poll during the call, 91% of constituents on the line told me that they want Congress to continue the existing Medicare program.” In 2009, Cuellar supported the Affordable Care Act, which extends Medicare’s solvency through 2024 and improves its benefits. The law also reduces the costs of prescription drugs for seniors in the Medicare prescription drug “donut hole” coverage gap and provides seniors free coverage for key preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies and a free Annual Wellness Visit. “I am proud to be a member of the party that passed Medicare, Social Security and health care reform—three crucial programs that make life better for Texans and all Americans,” said Cuellar.
07.24.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) led a bipartisan group of lawmakers in urging House of Representatives leadership to act swiftly to bring the 2012 Farm Bill to a vote before August. Cuellar joined 79 lawmakers, including Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-SD) and Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT), in signing a letter encouraging House Leadership to take action on this bill so that farmers and producers are not left in limbo. The bipartisan letter was signed by 31 Democrats and 48 Republicans. “Congress has an obligation to move swiftly to reauthorize the programs that feed American families,” said Cuellar. “In the midst of a severe drought and with expiration dates on a number of farm-related programs barreling toward us, inaction carries potentially devastating consequences for many farmers, producers and American families. The 2012 Farm Bill isn’t perfect yet, but let’s debate it before the August recess and get a good bill to the President as quickly as possible.” If Congress does not act to reauthorize the farm bill, many existing programs—including disaster assistance and livestock and crop assistance—will expire on September 30, 2012. Failure to pass a new farm bill or extend existing policy would mean the elimination of many of the decades-old programs on which American farmers and producers rely. The interruption of these effective and economical programs would cause massive disruptions for farmers and producers and carry the risk of causing domestic food prices to skyrocket. In the letter, the lawmakers wrote, “The message from our constituents and rural America is clear: we need a farm bill now. We ask that you bring a farm bill up before the August District Work Period so that the House will have the opportunity to work its will. We ask that you make this legislation a priority of the House as it is critically important to rural and urban Americans alike.” “Bringing this bill for debate on the House floor is the best way to make sure that the voices of farmers and families affected by this bill are heard,” said Cuellar. “I am hopeful that we will use this process to give farmers, producers, and families relying on nutrition programs the strong and fair farm bill they deserve.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi echoed this letter and also called upon the House majority leadership to take up this bill. “Inaction by the Republican congressional leadership means that disaster assistance will expire at the very time when we are experiencing the worst drought in 50 years; rural America is already facing the termination of livestock and crop assistance in the midst of this crisis,” Pelosi wrote in a statement. “Inaction means economic, nutritional and employment crisis throughout our rural communities.” Cuellar is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and joined his colleagues on the Committee to pass the Farm Bill on July 12 with a strong bipartisan vote of 35-11. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
07.24.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) applauded United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack’s announcement of new federal efforts to improve water quality and public health in colonias. As announced today, the USDA will be changing its water and wastewater funding process to provide more assistance to colonias in need of improved access to clean water and sewage systems. Rural Development Acting Deputy Under Secretary Judith Canales made this announcement on Vilsack’s behalf during her visit to Hidalgo County, where she toured the wastewater treatment system in the City of Peñitas. “Improving the quality of life for people living in colonias has been a priority of mine both as a Texas state legislator and as a member of Congress. Many people living in colonias still lack access to water and waste facilities, which poses significant health risks to their communities and negatively impacts their quality of life,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and Rural Development Acting Deputy Under Secretary Judy Canales for their commitment to investing and strengthening colonia communities across South Texas to make sure that no one is left behind.” The USDA currently gives federal assistance to project proposals off of a point based formula system. Under the new guidelines, proposed projects that seek to provide water and waste disposal services to a colonia will receive the greatest possible number of points. The new funding process announced today responds to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study requested by Cuellar to examine federal assistance available to colonias. The report requested by Congressman Cuellar in 2007 asked the GAO to review federal procedures regarding assistance to colonias. In December 2009, the GAO released a report describing a number of inadequacies in federal government programs across various agencies that focus on assisting colonias and noted a need for improved funding and an increase of coordination among federal agencies. “USDA appreciates Congressman Cuellar's leadership and involvement on the House Agriculture Committee,” said Rural Development Acting Deputy Under Secretary Judith Canales. “Congressman Cuellar has been a long advocate of assistance to colonias and we are glad to be working together to address health risks and strengthen our communities along the U.S.-Mexico border.” Throughout his time in office, Cuellar has been a leading advocate for people living in the colonias. As a state representative, Cuellar passed landmark legislation to help encourage the growth of the colonias. As a U.S. House Representative, Cuellar serves as the sole Democrat from Texas on the Agriculture Committee, presiding over legislation regarding rural development, farm security and trade promotion programs A colonia is defined as a community that lacks a potable water supply, an adequate sewage systems, safe and sanitary housing, inadequate roads and drainage systems. Cuellar represents 1389 colonias in Webb, Starr, Zapata and Hidalgo Counties (Texas Secretary of State – Directory of Colonias).
07.20.2012	On Thursday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Hilda Solis in support of the Eagle Ford Shale College Consortium’s application to the Department of Labor’s Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grants Program. The Consortium, a coalition of six community colleges, is seeking funding to develop the educational infrastructure necessary to support the training of qualified workers for the oil and gas industry in South Texas. A bipartisan coalition of nine legislators signed onto this letter. “The discovery of the Eagle Ford Shale has carried tremendous economic benefits and opportunity for our community, and it’s important that we leverage every federal resource available to promote its expansion,” said Cuellar. “I strongly support the Eagle Ford Shale College Consortium’s application for this grant to expand and improve our ability to give South Texans the education they need to succeed while also providing the Eagle Ford Shale area the qualified workforce it needs to help our community prosper. By granting these funds to the Eagle Ford Shale College Consortium proposal, we would be making an important long term investment in all communities in the Eagle Ford Shale footprint.” The Eagle Ford Shale College Consortium’s objective is to prepare current and at-risk trade affected workers for employment in high-wage, high-skill occupations. It seeks to accomplish this by expanding and improving responsiveness to the employment and training needs of the burgeoning exploration, extraction and services industries working in the Eagle Ford Shale oil and gas play of South Texas. The Consortium is comprised of six community colleges: Laredo Community College, South Texas College, Southwest Texas College, Victoria College, Coastal Bend College and Alamo Community College. “Funding this proposal will increase attainment of industry-recognized certifications and credentials and capacitate trade affected workers in high-wage, high-skill occupations in the oil and gas industry. This project will assist our constituents obtain employment in good jobs where they are likely to remain employed and earn family-sustaining wages,” wrote the lawmakers. Congressman Cuellar recently hosted a delegation from the Eagle Ford Shale Consortium in Washington, D.C. for the first of a series of multi-agency meetings to discuss and highlight the many issues related to the development of communities impacted by the Eagle Ford Shale, especially opportunities for federal support of workforce development and housing and possible grant opportunities. The letter was also signed by Congressman Francisco Canseco (TX-23), Congressman Lloyd Dogget (TX- 25), Congressman Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Congressman Charles Gonzalez (TX-20), Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21).
07.19.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) announced his support for the Administration’s new initiative to dedicate nearly $100 million to support Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) teachers, as well as a proposal to create a national Science, Math, Technology and Engineering (STEM) Master Teacher Corps. School districts in Texas will be eligible to apply for funding from the Teacher Incentive Fund to implement high-quality plans to establish career ladders that identify, develop and leverage highly-effective STEM teachers. “In order to make sure that students are provided the tools they need to compete in a twenty-first century economy, we must enhance and invest in STEM instruction. By ensuring high quality and modernized instruction in the STEM fields, we’re making a smart investment not only in our students’ education, but in our nation’s continued economic competitiveness,” said Cuellar. “Dedicating additional resources toward STEM teachers and creating a STEM Master Teacher Corps is key to keeping our country on the cutting edge of these growing fields.” The deadline for school districts to apply for funds under the Teacher Incentive Fund is July 27th. Interested school districts will compete for funding to implement high-quality plans that identify and compensate highly effective STEM teachers. “With nearly 30 school districts in the nation already signaling their interest in these funds for STEM teachers, I encourage our local school districts to move quickly to apply to strengthen teaching in these growing STEM fields and fuel American competiveness and innovation,” Cuellar. “The importance of the STEM fields to our national and global economy is only growing, and I want to ensure that our communities are not left out.” As part of the Administration’s 2013 budget proposal, it will create a national STEM Master Teacher Corps. The Corps will begin in 50 locations across the country, and, over the next four years, expand to include 10,000 of the best STEM teachers in the nation. The Corps will be supported by the Department of Education as part of their RESPECT project, which stands for Recognizing Educational Success, Professional Excellence, and Collaborative Teaching. The RESPECT project is a $5 billion program to re-envision the teaching profession to make it more responsive to the needs of the 21st century. For more information on the STEM Master Teaching Corps, please click here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
07.19.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced two infrastructure improvements in Nuevo Laredo funded by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Border Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC) and the North American Development Bank (NADB). “Mexico is not only an important trade and economic partner with the U.S., but the border and water we share make it an important environmental partner as well,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This investment will ensure clean and safe environments for families in both Laredo and Nuevo Laredo, and I thank BECC-NADB for their commitment to our South Texas families.” The Environmental Protection Agency will fund $2.8 million of $5 million dollar first project, which will disconnect wastewater lines from storm drains in Nuevo Laredo. The disconnection of lines will eliminate untreated wastewater discharge into the Rio Grande, resulting in cleaner water for both Laredo and Nuevo Laredo residents. “Citizens of the border region are well aware that environmental challenges do not recognize international boundaries. The Bank itself, along with the EPA-funded Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF) were established precisely to address trans-boundary challenges. Eliminating wastewater discharges into our shared waterways, such as the Rio Grande, is a priority for the Bank. We hope to move quickly on construction of these two new projects for Nuevo Laredo.” The second project, totaling $35.5 million, will be partially funded by a $13.3 million loan from BECC-NADB and will improve the City of Nuevo Laredo’s water and wastewater systems, construct storm water lines and will also pave and improve roads. An estimated 1,024 households will have access to first-time water services and, an estimated 5,116 households will have access to first-time wastewater services. These improvements will lessen the traffic congestion and pollution in Nuevo Laredo, important to the continuation of high trade volume with cities such as Laredo. Background: BECC is an international organization established by the governments of the United States and Mexico that works to preserve, protect and enhance human health and the environment of the U.S.-Mexico border region, by strengthening cooperation among interested parties and supporting sustainable projects through a transparent binational process in close coordination with NADB, federal, state and local agencies, the private sector and civil society. NADB is a financial institution established and capitalized in equal parts by the United States and Mexico for the purpose of financing environmental infrastructure projects along their common border. As a pioneer institution in its field, the Bank works to develop integrated, sustainable and fiscally responsible projects with broad community support in a framework of close cooperation and coordination between Mexico and the United States.
07.18.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) congratulated Starr County on receiving a $450,000 grant from by the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission and the North American Development Bank (NADB). The grant will finance part of a solid waste transfer station. “This project is a shining example of how federal funds can be put to good use to support a clean and safe environment for families in our local communities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I was glad to assist in facilitating close collaboration between Starr County Judge Eloy Vera, Starr County Commissioner’s Court and BECC-NADB. I thank Judge Vera, Starr County Commissioner’s Court and BECC-NADB for their hard work and commitment to providing a high quality of life for our South Texas families.” The transfer station, which processes 80 tons of trash a day, opened its doors for operation on November 8, 2010 and has an operating life of at least 15 years, which allows Starr County to continue providing safe and consistent sanitation services and complying with federal and state regulations for the next 20 years. In addition to reimbursing the County for the station’s construction, this grant will fund reserves for the station’s operation, maintenance, repairs, and replacements, ensuring that residents will be able to leverage the station’s services to its fullest extent. “This is an important investment in Starr County that will benefit residents through improved environmental quality, generated economic development and employment,” said Starr County Judge Eloy Vera. “I thank Congressman Cuellar for his aid in working with BECC-NADB to help us sustain this important project.” The total authorized capital of NADB is $3 billion with equal commitments from the United States and Mexico. This is the final project to be funded directly under the Solid Waste Environmental Program (SWEP), which has formally been closed. The grant was funded from the Banks’ retained earnings. Starr County originally paid $1.4 million for the construction of the station. “These grant funds will help Starr County pay down existing debt on the transfer station and will also provide necessary reserve funds, making the County’s solid waste operations more affordable and sustainable for the community," stated Gerónimo Gutiérrez, Managing Director of the North American Development Bank. Background: BECC is an international organization established by the governments of the United States and Mexico that works to preserve, protect and enhance human health and the environment of the U.S.-Mexico border region, by strengthening cooperation among interested parties and supporting sustainable projects through a transparent binational process in close coordination with NADB, federal, state and local agencies, the private sector and civil society. NADB is a financial institution established and capitalized in equal parts by the United States and Mexico for the purpose of financing environmental infrastructure projects along their common border. As a pioneer institution in its field, the Bank works to develop integrated, sustainable and fiscally responsible projects with broad community support in a framework of close cooperation and coordination between Mexico and the United States.
07.13.2012	Your vote is your voice, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) likes to say, and this week he launched an interactive voting registration app on his website aimed at making sure that voters in Texas have their voices heard. The app is designed to inform Texans on how they can register to vote and what they need to bring to the polls. “It’s part of my job to make sure that Texans have the necessary knowledge and tools as they prepare to cast their votes,” said Cuellar. “This app will help Texans prepare for early voting and Election Day and arm themselves with the knowledge they need to make their voices heard through the electoral process.” The interactive app, which is simple and easy to use, helps Texans determine whether they are eligible to vote and gives potential voters information about what they need to bring to the polls in order to ensure that they don’t face any hitches on Election Day or during early voting. The app provides a pop-up process that walks users through eligibility requirements and how-tos for registering to vote. For eligible voters, the app lists acceptable forms of ID for the 2012 election, gives voters information about early voting and tells Texans where to report voting rights abuses. For those who are not registered, the app includes links to websites that give voters information on how to apply in-person or via mail. The app also provides voters the opportunity to add a reminder to their Outlook calendars for important voter registration deadlines and even gives users the option to embed the app on any webpage. “This app is a 21st century tool to ensure Texans can properly exercise their most fundamental right on Election Day and during early voting,” said Cuellar. “I hope that Texans will take a few minutes to make sure they have what they need to cast their vote this fall and that they’ll help spread the word to their friends and families by embedding this app on their own websites and linking it to their Facebook and Twitter accounts. Let’s make sure all our voices are heard at the ballot box.” You can use this app by visiting Cuellar’s website at www.cuellar.house.gov. It is located on the right side of the home page.
07.09.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) and Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar announced that the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program has awarded a grant to the Webb County Sheriff’s Office in the amount of $602,321. This grant will support the hiring of five new deputies, who, according to the terms of the grant, must be military veterans. “The COPS Hiring Program provides our local law enforcement agencies with the resources they need to protect our communities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This funding will not only increase community safety and crime prevention, but also play the important role of ensuring that our military veterans are kept in the workforce. I congratulate Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar for his leadership in securing the grant.” The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) provides law enforcement agencies grants to hire new or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase community policing and crime prevention. In 2010, the City of Laredo received a $4.6 million COPS grant to hire 22 law enforcement officers. A unique change for the 2012 program requires that all new officers hired must be military veterans who have served at least 180 days of active military service on or after September 11, 2001. “The COPS Grant is a true testament that our leaders in Washington are listening,” stated Sheriff Martin Cuellar. “When we took our trip to Washington we visited with a purpose, with border security for Webb County as a priority on our agenda. We introduced our initiative of ‘Hire a Vet – Secure Our Borders,’ and leaders such as Janet Napolitano Secretary of Homeland Security and many others allowed us to voice our concerns and they responded. I thank our Congressman Henry Cuellar for assisting this initiative not only for Webb County but for law enforcement agencies across South Texas. I hope that in the near future, once the COPS grant is fully operational, we can begin a second phase of the grant which would consist of hiring veterans who return home facing physical disabilities. These veterans have been trained by the country’s finest and are disciplined; they would be an asset to monitor a virtual fence line (via video cameras) set up along the border to detect any criminal activity.” The CHP grant provides 75 percent funding for entry-level salaries and benefits for three years. The remaining $200,000 will come from forfeiture funds provided by Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar.
07.09.2012	Only three days after Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) authored a letter encouraging the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to formally notify Congress of the intent to include Mexico in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) Agreement, USTR has provided Congress written notification of the administration’s intent to include Mexico in TPP negotiations. This notification begins a 90-day consultation process between the administration and Congress on negotiating objectives with Mexico. “Today, we took another crucial step forward toward securing Mexico’s inclusion in the TPP,” said Cuellar, who is Chair of the Pro-Trade Caucus. “Because of the many economic ties between us, this is excellent news for both of our countries, and especially for Texas. As the second largest destination for American exports, Mexico continues to benefit Texas with $86 billion worth of Texas products to Mexico, and our countries exchange $1 billion in trade each day, which in turn supports manufacturers, ranchers, small businesses and consumers who rely on trade with our southwest neighbor. I commend Ambassador Kirk for sending the official letter to Congress to pave the way for Mexico’s inclusion in this landmark trade agreement.” “Expanding the negotiations to include additional countries throughout the Asia-Pacific region has been a longstanding U.S. objective. Mexico’s participation advances this goal and further increases the economic significance of a TPP Agreement,” stated Kirk in his letter to the House of Representatives. “We have conducted in-depth discussions with Mexico about the standards and objectives that the TPP countries are seeking, particularly in those areas where the standards or objectives are higher than those that exist in the NAFTA. Mexico has assured us of its willingness to negotiate on these issues and its preparedness to achieve these high standards together with the other TPP countries.” Cuellar’s continued efforts to secure Mexico’s inclusion in the TPP have been crucial in driving the process’s momentum. The United States Trade Representative issued the formal notification to Congress only three days after Cuellar sent a bipartisan letter dated July 6, 2012 that encouraged U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk to formally notify Congress of the intent to include Mexico in the TPP agreement. This letter, signed by a bipartisan coalition of eleven lawmakers, responded to the recent announcement by the U.S. and eight other countries involved in the TPP Agreement that they have extended an invitation to Mexico to join the TPP negotiations. In addition to Congressman Cuellar, members of Congress who signed this letter are: Congressman Francisco “Quico” Canseco (TX-23), Congressman Bob Filner (CA-51), Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-6),Congressman Jim Moran (VA-8), Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21), Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02), Congressman Silvestre Reyes (TX-16) and Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32). Prior to the July 6, 2012 letter, Cuellar and a bipartisan group of 27 lawmakers sent a March 2012 letter to U.S. Trade Representative Kirk conveying support for Mexico’s inclusion in the TPP negotiations. By June 2012, the U.S. and eight other countries negotiating the TPP Agreement extended an invitation to Mexico to join the TPP negotiations. Mexico is a crucial trade partner that contributes to the U.S.’s steady economic growth. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports that trade with Mexico accounts for approximately 6 million American jobs, and increased trade with Mexico has the potential to further boost job creation in the United States. Additionally, Texas exports $86 billion worth of products to Mexico, and trade with Mexico supports 463,132 jobs in Texas. Texas exports to Mexico include computers and electronic products and result in $19.6 billion annually. According to the Secretariat of the Economy of Mexico, Mexico is the second largest export market for the United States, accounting for nearly $200 billion in consumption of U.S. goods in 2010. In this same year, U.S. exports to Mexico increased $34 billion, which helped promote GDP growth. The TPP is a free trade agreement aimed at facilitating U.S. trade engagement in the Asia-Pacific region’s huge and growing markets. In addition to the United States, the countries currently negotiating the TPP are Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. More information on the TPP is available here.
07.06.2012	As part of his continued leadership of efforts to secure Mexico’s inclusion in Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), Chair of the Pro-Trade Caucus, today sent a bipartisan letter encouraging U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk to formally notify Congress of the intent to include Mexico in the TPP agreement. The TPP is a free trade agreement aimed at facilitating U.S. trade engagement in the Asia-Pacific region’s huge and growing markets. This letter, signed by a bipartisan coalition of eleven lawmakers, builds on the momentum of the recent announcement by the U.S. and eight other countries involved in the TPP Agreement that they have extended an invitation to Mexico to join the TPP negotiations. In addition to Congressman Cuellar, members of Congress who signed this letter are: Congressman Francisco “Quico” Canseco (TX-23), Congressman Bob Filner (CA-51), Congresswoman Kay Granger (TX-12), Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-6),Congressman Jim Moran (VA-8), Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21), Congressman Jared Polis (CO-02), Congressman Silvestre Reyes (TX-16) and Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32). After Congress receives notification, a 90-day consultation process begins on U.S. negotiating objectives with Mexico. “The United States and Mexico have a dynamic relationship that extends far past their geographic connection as neighbors. Dollar for dollar, good by good – our economies depend on each other to grow. The U.S. has enjoyed continued export growth to Mexico, and over 463,000 Texas jobs depend on trade with Mexico today,” said Cuellar. “Mexico is our second largest export market, and, at $1 billion in commerce exchanged each day, one of our most important trade partners. The process to include Mexico in TPP is continuing to progress, and I look forward to working with my colleagues toward securing Mexico’s inclusion in this landmark trade agreement.” Only weeks after Cuellar and a bipartisan group of 27 lawmakers sent a March 2012 letter to U.S. Trade Representative Kirk urging support for Mexico’s inclusion in the negotiations toward the creation of the TPP, the U.S. and eight other countries negotiating the TPP Agreement extended an invitation to Mexico to join the TPP negotiations. Mexico is a crucial trade partner that contributes to the U.S.’s steady economic growth. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports that trade with Mexico accounts for approximately 6 million American jobs, and increased trade with Mexico has the potential to further boost job creation in the United States. Additionally, Texas exports $86 billion worth of products to Mexico, and trade with Mexico supports 463,132 jobs in Texas. According to the Secretariat of the Economy of Mexico, Mexico is the second largest export market for the United States, accounting for nearly $200 billion in consumption of U.S. goods in 2010. In this same year, U.S. exports to Mexico increased $34 billion, which helped promote GDP growth. In addition to the United States, the countries currently negotiating the TPP are Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. More information on the TPP is available here.
07.02.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) issued the following statement on the Mexican presidential election: I offer my congratulations to President-elect Enrique Peña Nieto on his victory. After meeting with him several times and asking hard questions, I've been impressed by the President-elect and his vision for Mexico's future. This election is important to us because the U.S. and Mexico share far more than a border: Mexico is a crucial security and trade partner that exchanges $1 billion in commerce each day with our country and supports 6 million American jobs. I am confident that President-elect Peña Nieto will be a valuable ally with the United States on key issues like trade and border security, and I look forward to a continued strong relationship between our two countries. ###
06.29.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) helped pass H.R. 4348, the “Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act” (MAP-21). MAP-21 addresses crucial issues pending before Congress including the extension of the current student loan interest rate and the much-needed reauthorization of surface transportation legislation—known as “the highway bill.” MAP-21 also reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program for five years, providing certainty and security to businesses, renters and the housing market. “This three-part deal includes a broad range of provisions that will benefit students, families, businesses and local governments across America,” said Cuellar. “Students can now enter the coming school year with the security of lower rates and less expensive monthly payments to loans. Federal and state agencies will be able to more effectively leverage transportation funding, and Texas will be able to make much-needed improvements to road, rail, and public transit needs. And homeowners, renters and businesses will benefit from the protection and security of continued flood insurance. This bipartisan bill is an example of the need for all members of Congress to work together across the aisle to ensure that we don’t let partisan gridlock prevent us from taking action on behalf of our country’s students, families and businesses.” MAP-21 is the result of months of negotiations between the House of Representatives and the Senate to reach a bipartisan agreement on these crucial issues. The bill passed the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote of 373 to 52. Student Loan Provisions: MAP-21 extends the current student loan interest rate of 3.4% for new federally subsidized, undergraduate student loans through June 30, 2013. This bill will have a significant impact on the 461,533 Texas students who are borrowers in the 2012-2013 academic year (according to the Committee on Education and the Workforce). Preventing the doubling of interest rates on need-based student loans makes next year’s education $950 less expensive for more Texan students. Without this action, current interest rates would have doubled on July 1 from 3.4% to 6.8%, placing an unfair burden on middle class students and their families at a time when student debt is ballooning. Transportation Provisions: This bill will create or save more than 2 million jobs, authorize highway and transit programs for more than two years at current levels, make key reforms consolidating transportation programs and cut red tape, and leverage federal resources to expand public-private partnerships in transportation. MAP-21 also provides state agencies like the Texas Department of Transportation more flexibility and opportunities for funding sources. After nine short-term extensions of the prior surface transportation law, this bill ends the uncertainty our local businesses and governments faced in their transportation planning. This bill will make over $3 billion available for Texas infrastructure, funding much-needed transportation improvements in areas like the Eagle Ford Shale footprint. This bill also contains a provision advocated for by Congressman Cuellar that provides funding for bus systems in areas like Laredo and McAllen through federal grants directed at urbanized areas. Flood Insurance Program Provisions: The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) helps finance disaster relief payments from the federal government to areas that have been devastated by floods. The Program gives crucial protections to homeowners, renters and businesses and provides security and certainty to people living in flood prone areas. This agreement reauthorizes the program for five years, through September 30, 2017. The NFIP has been extended temporarily more than a dozen times since the last long-term reauthorization expired in 2008.
06.28.2012	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court decision upholding the health care law: This decision is a victory for Texans, the middle class and the American people. With this ruling, Americans will continue to benefit from crucial patient protections, lower costs for the middle class, more coverage for families, greater certainty for hospitals and businesses, and stronger accountability for the insurance industry. The facts speak for themselves, and it is clear that Americans are better off under the provisions set out in the Affordable Care Act—and there is still more to come. I hope that my colleagues will work together in a bipartisan manner to continue to make the necessary improvements and adjustments to this law. Under the Affordable Care Act: 90,000 people in the district I represent have received preventative care services under private insurance without paying any copay, coinsurance or deductible. More than 71,000 seniors in the district I represent have received Medicare preventative services without paying any copay, coinsurance or deductible. Over 430 small businesses in the district I represent have received tax credits worth 35 percent or more of the cost of providing health insurance to their employees. 357,000 young adults in Texas have been able to stay on their parents’ health insurance plans, ensuring their continued access to health care. Over five million seniors across the nation have saved $3.2 billion on their prescription drugs – an average of $635 saved per senior. Today’s decision means that our country will continue making a smart investment in our health and economic security. We have made history for our nation and scored a big win for the Texans, children, seniors, parents and hardworking Americans whose lives will continue to be touched for the better by the Affordable Care Act. I am proud to be a member of the party that passed Medicare, Social Security and health care reform—three crucial programs that make life better for Texans and all Americans.
06.26.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), joined by Dr. Juan Maldonado, Dr. Pablo Arenaz, and Dr. Nora Garza, announced a $3,875,000 grant from the Department of Education to be divided over five years to improve academic achievement through a partnership between Laredo Community College (LCC) and Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) aimed at enhancing an improved transfer-student process and increasing faculty development. “As students attain their core coursework within the community college and move onto their specialized fields, it’s important to provide increased academic support, especially for transfer students, so they are be able to graduate and compete in a globally competitive workforce,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This grant will allow for coordination between LCC and TAMIU so that students can make the transition from their associate’s degree to bachelor’s degree swiftly and with more confidence. I thank LCC and TAMIU for their commitment to a project dedicated to the betterment of our Laredo students, which is crucial to increasing student success, retention and graduation.” Through a Title V Cooperative Agreement Development grant, LCC and TAMIU will receive funding directed at improving student success. This grant will allow coordinated linkage and faculty development between both institutions, as well as enhanced community programs in service learning. Additionally, this grant will assist with improved collection, analysis and use of data tracking for each student, and a strengthened transfer process between high school to college and college to the university, including an a specialized orientation for students entering TAMIU from LCC and tutoring opportunities for transfer students. “Laredo Community College is extremely grateful to Congressman Henry Cuellar for his continued support in advocating for us in Washington on behalf of the Title V grant. We also are grateful for the dedication of Dr. Nora Garza and Gabriel Lozano, who worked tirelessly to secure this grant. This will be a great opportunity for LCC to work collaboratively with TAMIU to ensure students succeed in the areas of reading and writing, as well as mentoring. We look forward to a successful administration of this grant and the many positive student success stories that will follow,” said LCC President Dr. Juan L. Maldonado. One of the grant’s integral goals is the promotion of the fiscal stability of both LCC and TAMIU. Dr. Ruth Lopez Turley, an independent external evaluator for the project, will help determine the linkage between proposed activities and successful outcomes. “Laredo Community College’s Strategic Plan is focused on student success. As part of that effort, this grant will help strengthen the college’s ability to help students succeed and to use data to measure our institution’s effectiveness in that regard. Providing specific assistance to students at critical entry points in their core courses will help increase student retention and completion rates. We value Congressman Cuellar’s support in our efforts to increase student academic success,” said Dr. Nora Garza, LCC vice president for resource development and project director of the Title V Focus on Student Success program. The project will ensure it is successfully working toward its goals by monitoring factors such as the percentage change over the five-year grant period of the number of full-time degree-seeking undergraduates, the percentage of students who continue to the second year of college, the percentage of students from LCC graduating within three years of enrollment, the percentage of LCC transfer students retained and graduating with a bachelor’s degree within four years of enrollment at TAMIU, and the reduction of cost for undergraduate degrees at LCC and TAMIU. “This is a remarkable example of our institutions’ shared values and mutual desire to advance our community together. Innovative programs like ‘Focusing on Student Success’ improve the ease and transparency of transfer between the college and the university and help students maintain a laser focus on degree attainment. We are certain this program will dramatically increase the number of students who secure four-year degrees. We are deeply appreciative of the leadership and partnership provided by Congressman Cuellar in securing this critical funding,” said Dr. Pablo Arenaz, TAMIU provost and vice president for academic affairs. The new federally funded project is scheduled to start in October. For more information about the project, contact Dr. Garza at 956-721-5868.
06.25.2012	778 residents of Atascosa County joined Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) for a town hall meeting conducted by telephone last Wednesday, June 20. Cuellar used the telephone town hall to conduct a question and answer session with people living in the Atascosa area about issues facing their community, particularly matters related to transportation and roads. Mario Medina, San Antonio District Engineer for the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), also participated in the telephone town hall and answered questions from Atascosa area residents about TxDOT’s role in addressing Atascosa’s transportation needs. For several years, Cuellar has used telephone town halls to connect with constituents while he is in Washington, D.C. during weeks that Congress is in session, but this telephone town hall meeting was the first one that Cuellar has held that focused on only one county. “This telephone town hall meeting was designed to focus on the specific needs of residents of Atascosa County,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In part because of developments at Eagle Ford Shale, Atascosa has a unique set of transportation issues, and I wanted to be able to hear from residents in the area in their own voice about how I can use federal resources to help make sure their transportation needs are met.” The question and answer session, which lasted over half an hour, opened with a veteran explaining that he has to travel for medical appointments and asking whether public transportation services could be expanded to assist with his journey. Other callers expressed their wishes for infrastructure improvements like building a shoulder on FM 140 in Christine and Charlotte and building a bypass linking Jourdanton and Pleasanton to Interstate 37 in response to the Eagle Ford Shale traffic boom. When one caller expressed his wish for the addition of another off-ramp on Interstate 35 to facilitate easier access to Lytle, Medina explained that while an additional ramp in that area might be a good idea, TxDOT is constrained in its ability to make improvements like that by the availability of funds. Cuellar then explained the role he plays in helping to secure federal funds to support the improvement of roads and transportation infrastructure for areas traveled by his constituents. Many of these improvements are paid for by the gas tax motorists pay at the pumps with the understanding that revenues will go toward improving the roads they drive on. Much of the call was focused on constituents’ concerns about specific roads that have seen increased traffic due to energy development operations in the Eagle Ford Shale footprint. FM 16 and FM 140 were two of the roads that constituents cited as examples of roads that are deteriorating from the increased capacity of oil and gas drilling equipment. Cuellar is working with his colleagues both in the U.S. House of Representatives and at TxDOT to drive the ongoing improvements to the area’s roads and respond to the effects of Eagle Ford Shale development. “I am very grateful to Mario Medina for joining me for this telephone town hall meeting and sharing his expertise on local transportation issues with people living in the Atascosa area,” said Cuellar. “Mario works tirelessly at the state level to help the people of Atascosa County. It’s important that my colleagues and I continue to work at the federal level to make sure that Mario and others at TxDOT have the resources and tools they need to respond to Atascosa’s transportation needs and maintain our roads and highways to keep Texans and goods moving.”
06.22.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced that the Atascosa Health Center has received a grant in the amount of $483,333 from the Health Resources and Services Administration for medical services at their new satellite health center in Live Oak County. “This investment in our community and its health will ensure that Atascosa Health Center’s patients have access to high quality healthcare even though they may live far from full-fledged hospitals,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The fact that this grant is following so closely on the heels of the $5 million grant for a new health care facility I announced at Atascosa Health Center just this May highlights the federal government’s commitment to investing in the health of our communities. I thank Mr. Monty Small for once again proving his leadership and congratulate him on receiving this well deserved grant.” The $483,333 in funding will help Atascosa Health Center establish a new satellite health center, the Live Oak Community Health Center, which will serve over 4,000 patients in its first year and 5,500 patients in its second year. Patients at the facility will have access to a wide range of services, including medical and dental care, substance abuse and mental health, prenatal and perinatal, cancer screenings and voluntary family planning services. Children will have access well-child services, dental care, immunizations, and pediatric vision and hearing screenings. “It has been a long wait, but Atascosa Health Center will finally be able to provide the most needed health care to the residents of Live Oak and McMullen Counties. This milestone would not be possible without the funding received from the Health Resources and Services Administration,” said Monty Small, CEO of Atascosa Health Center. “We have been working with many leaders of Live Oak and McMullen Counties for over the last 5 years on this project - I would like to thank Judge Huff, Mayor Liska, Merrill Foster, the Three Rivers Senior Citizen Center, Judy McAda and our local Hospital, South Texas Regional Medical Center and our two congressmen, Congressman Hinojosa and Congressman Cuellar. Our sincere thanks to everyone’s hard work and collaboration on the new "Live Oak Community Health Center.” Since 1978, Atascosa Health Center, Inc., has provided primary health care, dental services and referral services to the uninsured, underinsured, undocumented and other low-income residents of Atascosa County. The new satellite clinic will be the third, with other satellite clinics in Wilson and Karnes counties.
06.21.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced the winner of the 2012 Congressional Art Competition, Jose Lopez of East Central High School in San Antonio, Texas. Jose’s winning charcoal self portrait, “Mr. Cool Guy,” will be displayed in an eleven month exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. “The Congressional Art Competition provides a chance to formally recognize the talents of students in our district and also gives us the opportunity to display a part of South Texas culture to the thousands of visitors that walk the halls of the Capitol,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I congratulate Jose and hope that his creativity continues to bring him success.” Winners from each congressional district will be honored at an Awards Reception in Washington, D.C this week. Congressman Cuellar will also hold a second celebration to honor Jose as the winner of the competition late this summer in San Antonio among friends and family. Jose’s trip to our nation’s capital was helped made possible through a sponsorship from IBC Bank by way of the Museo Alameda (Smithsonian Institution Affiliations Program). “A big thank you to IBC Bank and the Museo Alameda for making this an enjoyable experience for Jose and his mother, Lorna Phillip,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I enjoyed meeting and spending time with both of them during their visit.” The Congressional Art Competition is held each spring and is sponsored by the Members of Congress. One winner from each district is chosen each year. Since its inception in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Jose, a graduating senior, plans to attend a local community college in the fall and hopes to continue studying art along with a major involving the automotive industry. Jose competed against students throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.21.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), joined by the office of Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), hosted a multi-agency meeting in Washington D.C. with a delegation from the Eagle Ford Shale Consortium to discuss a broad range of issues related to the development of the communities impacted by the Eagle Ford Shale. Topics discussed included opportunities for federal support of workforce development and housing as well as possible grant opportunities. "In addition to playing an ever-increasing role in building our local economy and creating opportunities for South Texans, the Eagle Ford Shale is taking on national importance as a key contributor to our energy sector and the economic growth of our nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By bringing the delegation together with key federal agency decision makers, we are furthering our goal of making South Texas one of the drivers of domestic energy production. I want to thank Leodoro Martinez and the other members of the delegation for attending this meeting and working with me to make sure that the Consortium is leveraging every federal resource available to promote the expansion of Eagle Ford Shale." The Eagle Ford Shale Consortium, led by Chairman Leodoro Martinez, gave a presentation providing an overview of the Eagle Ford Shale to United States Department of Agriculture – Rural Development, Department of Labor, Housing and Urban Development, Department of Energy and the Economic Development Agency. The meeting covered a wide range of topics, including providing training to energy workforce employees, ensuring the availability of affordable housing for the thousands of workers hired by Eagle Ford Shale and infrastructure improvements for roads that are supporting massive trucking traffic. "I want to thank Congressman Cuellar and Senator Cornyn for bringing these federal agencies to the table for a collaborative discussion about ensuring that as the Eagle Ford Shale continues to develop, we use this growth to foster both the immediate goal of creating jobs and the long term goal of creating a solid economic base for communities in the Eagle Ford footprint," said Executive Director for the Middle Rio Grande Development Council and Eagle Ford Shale Consortium Chairman Leodoro Martinez. The Eagle Ford Shale Consortium is comprised of stakeholder representatives from a cross-section of community members from the South Texas area. The Consortium exists to serve the public’s interest in matters of economic and community development, community education, job creation, workforce education and development, natural resources and other related subjects. The Eagle Ford Shale formation is a hydrocarbon-producing formation that covers 20 Texas counties. Last year alone, the Eagle Ford Shale Formation had an economic output of $25 billion dollars and sustained over 47,000 full time jobs. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.21.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) have introduced HR 5964, the “Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2012.” HR 5964 will facilitate crucial updates at U.S. land border ports of entry by giving U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the authority to enter into public-private partnerships with either local governments or private sector entities to fund the improvement of services and facilities at land-border ports of entry, with the goal of speeding up the flow of traffic at these ports. As federal resources continue to be constrained by difficult financial times, entering into these public-private partnerships will allow CBP to seek alternate sources of funding to ensure its essential needs are met. “Every day, over a billion dollars in commerce flows across the U.S.-Mexico border, making Mexico one of our most important trade partners and a crucial partner in supporting U.S. economy and jobs,” said Congressman Cuellar, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. “Because of the crucial role CBP plays in supporting the efficient and effective flow of goods between our two countries, we must leverage every available resource to make sure that CBP has the tools it needs to do its job well, keep lines short and move goods and people across the border efficiently. I look forward to working with my colleagues, Senator Hutchison, Senator Cornyn and Congressman McCaul to respond to the needs of local stakeholders in both the public and private sectors and speed up the flow of traffic at our ports of entry.” “Allowing the private sector to have a stake in the security at our ports of entry will help speed the free flow of commerce,” said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee. “The same ports of entry that serve as a pipeline for economic growth are inundated by illegal drug shipments, and the private sector and our economy are the ones that suffer. A similar approach involving industry has proven successful at the Port of Houston. This is good, innovative government.” The goal of the legislation is to provide alternatives to CBP so the restricted availability of federal funding for CBP operations does not prevent CBP from having the ability to carry out its duties efficiently and effectively. By giving CBP the authority to enter into these public-private partnerships, HR 5964 will help CBP leverage its limited resources and acquire additional tools and financing to speed up the flow of traffic at border ports of entry. In addition to funding additional staffing at ports of entry, these public-private partnerships will also support the construction and maintenance of facilities and infrastructure in order to increase CBP operational abilities. “Congressmen Cuellar and McCaul understand that cross-border trade can bring positive economic contributions to our communities, but that we must address some critical challenges in manpower, infrastructure, technology and security in order to realize trade’s full potential and strengthen the U.S.-Mexico and U.S-Canada relationships” said BTA Chairman and Starr-Camargo Bridge Co. President Sam Vale. “Unless we establish new and innovative ways of financing our borders’ needed manpower and infrastructure, industry and border communities will continue to be frustrated by funding challenges and political wrangling. We must look at how we can draw upon the creativity and knowhow of the private sector in order to meet these very real challenges that are resulting in long lines of legitimate and trade and travelers waiting to enter U.S. commerce and that create a consistent drag on our economy.” This bill is the U.S. House of Representatives companion bill to a similar bill introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) also titled the “Cross Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2012.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.18.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Pro-Trade Caucus, and Congressman Francisco “Quico” Canseco (TX-23) announced their support for the decision to extend Mexico an invitation to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. The TPP is a free trade agreement that seeks to facilitate U.S. trade engagement in the Asia-Pacific region’s huge and growing markets. In addition to the United States, the countries currently negotiating the TPP are Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. “Mexico is our neighbor, our second largest export market, and one of our most important trade partners. Mexico’s inclusion in the TPP will boost the agreement’s economic importance and reap benefits for the U.S. and other TPP members,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a representative of the U.S.-Mexico border region, I have seen firsthand how closely tied our two countries are, and Mexico’s entry into the TPP will strengthen these ties by increasing cooperation between our two countries and improving our region’s security and economic competitiveness. I am grateful to Ambassador Kirk and the Administration for recognizing the need to incorporate this significant world economy into this landmark trade agreement.” “Mexico is one of the United States’ most significant trading partners. Every day, over a billion dollars in commerce flows across the U.S.-Mexico border between our two nations, and is responsible for millions of jobs here in the United States,” said Congressman Canseco. “As the representative of a district that contains almost 800 miles of U.S.-Mexico border, I understand the positive impact increased trade between the U.S and Mexico would have on job creation here in the United States. The inclusion of Mexico in the TPP will yield significant economic opportunities for Mexico and broaden the trading relationship between our two nations, which will in turn yield significant benefits for jobs and the economy here in the United States.” Cuellar and Canseco have led efforts to have Mexico included in TPP negotiations and have worked to secure support toward this goal from both sides of the aisle. In March, Cuellar and Canseco—along with 26 other lawmakers—sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk that urged the Administration to support Mexico’s inclusion in the TPP, citing Mexico’s vital role as a trade partner to the United States and in the global economy. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce reports that trade with Mexico accounts for approximately 6 million American jobs, and increased trade with Mexico has the potential to further boost job creation in the United States. According to the Secretariat of the Economy of Mexico, Mexico is the second largest export market for the United States, accounting for nearly $200 billion in consumption of U.S. goods in 2010. In this same year, U.S. exports to Mexico increased $34 billion, which helped promote GDP growth. The TPP is a key element of the United States’ efforts to support the creation and retention of high-quality jobs for Americans by increasing exports to the vibrant economies of the Asia-Pacific region. The United States and its TPP partners are determined to expeditiously complete a comprehensive, next-generation agreement. The TPP countries have already completed 12 rounds of negotiations. The next round of negotiations is scheduled to take place July 2 – 10 in San Diego, California. More information on the TPP is available here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.14.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) congratulated Workforce Solutions and the Border Workforce Alliance (BWA) after the U.S. Department of Labor announced that it has awarded a Workforce Innovation Fund Grant in the amount of $5,999,998 to Workforce Solutions of McAllen, as the lead entity for the BWA. The BWA is a consortium of the five workforce boards located along the Texas-Mexico border. Earlier this year, Cuellar wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Assistant Secretary Jane Oates in support of the BWA’s application for this grant. “As we emerge from this economic recession, the government’s number one priority should be getting people back to work, and I’m confident that Workforce Solutions and the Border Workforce Alliance will leverage this federal money to help lower unemployment and poverty rates in the Texas-Mexico area,” said Cuellar. “I’m glad that the Department of Labor recognizes BWA’s potential to play a critical role in developing the workforce along the Texas-Mexico border and that it will support BWA’s efforts with this grant.” The BWA will use the Workforce Innovation Fund Grant to fund a workforce project called Growing Regional Opportunity for the Workforce (GROW), an ambitious regional workforce and economic development initiative that aims to increase literacy and skills training for lower-skilled workers in the Texas-Mexico border region. The project design consists of a multi-stakeholder initiative to fundamentally change the services delivered as part of the public workforce system to employ and advance lower-skilled adults. “This is wonderful news, not just for the communities we serve but the entire state of Texas. With these funds, Project GROW will serve specific populations that face many of the same barriers and provide them with the necessary resources and tools to succeed in the workforce,” said Yvonne 'Bonnie' Gonzalez, CEO of Workforce Solutions. “I would be remiss if I did not mention our many partners that helped make this possible, including our congressional offices, and workforce development boards that represent the BWA, along the Texas/Mexico border spanning from El Paso to Brownsville, TX; Jobs for the Future; and business and community partners.” Project GROW responds to a critical need in the Texas-Mexico border population, which continues to trail behind the general population in education attainment, per capita income and basic literacy skills. The Educational Needs Index ranks Texas as having the most critical level of educational needs in the country. “I extend my sincere congratulations to the executive directors of each of the workforce boards in the BWA—Bonnie Gonzalez, Rogelio Trevino, Lorenzo Reyes, Ricky McNiel and Stanley Pat Hobbs—and thank them for the important work they do on behalf of our community and its workers,” said Cuellar. The BWA was formed in December 2012 when the five workforce boards located along the Texas-Mexico border convened to propose a plan of action to improve border literacy and skills training. Comprised of workforce development boards in El Paso, Uvalde, Laredo, McAllen and Brownsville, the BWA works to expand and initiate evidence-based practices to increase the literacy and training of workers in the border region and strengthen the local economy. The 22 counties in the BWA’s service area have a joint population of 2,419,388. This grant was one of 26 Workforce Innovation Fund grants totaling $146.9 million announced today by U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Hilda Solis. The grants are aimed at developing and expanding innovative strategies to help Americans return to work. More information on these grants is available here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.12.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced his support for a new federal border initiative targeted at helping communities in the southwest border region confront chronic poverty. The “Border Community Capital Initiative” (known as the “Border Initiative”) is a collaborative effort of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the U.S. Department of Agriculture – Rural Development (USDA-RD) and the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (CDFI Fund). The purpose of the initiative is to increase capital in the U.S./Mexico border region, an area that includes some of the poorest communities in the country. “The creation of the Border Community Capital Initiative is great news for residents and businesses in our southwest border region. By helping local financial institutions in the colonias improve their capacity to raise capital, increase lending and boost investment in their communities, this initiative will strengthen community development and help put an end to the cycle of poverty in these areas,” said Cuellar. “I am grateful that these federal agencies are helping to tackle chronic poverty in the colonias by giving local businesses the tools they need to make their communities stronger.” HUD, the USDA-RA, and the CDFI Fund have agreed to offer up to $200,000 to nonprofit and/or tribal financial institutions serving colonias for direct investment and technical assistance focusing on affordable housing, small businesses, and community facilities. These efforts will help widen the channels through which larger private institutions and federal agencies can reach potential home owners, renters, business owners, facilities operators and service providers who need their support. If the Border Initiative is successful, the agencies may consider extending this collaboration to other persistent poverty regions of the country. The Border Community Capital Initiative is part of a series of initiatives delivered through the White House Rural Council. The Council was launched by President Barack Obama last August to help create jobs and expand opportunities in rural communities. More information on the Border Initiative is available here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.01.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded $3,317,353.00 to the City of Laredo to fund improvements at the Laredo International Airport. These funds will be used to support an ongoing project to rehabilitate the Laredo International Airport’s apron—enhancing airport safety, increasing the airport’s capacity to handle large aircrafts and ensuring that airport operations will continue to run efficiently and effectively. Additionally, the funds will help reimburse the City of Laredo for costs expended on the Airport, including the construction of a new airport rescue and firefighting station. “This grant award to the Laredo International Airport benefits not just the airport but our whole community, because more cargo and visitors in South Texas means more jobs for South Texans,” said Cuellar. “I offer my congratulations to Mayor Salinas and City Manager Villarreal for their continued success in securing federal dollars to help improve our airport and support our local economy.” “Thanks to Congressman Cuellar and the continued hard work of our Laredo International Airport staff, the City of Laredo continues to receive the federal dollars it needs to update and improve our airport so that it remains competitive, safe and a good neighbor in our community,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “The $3 million in grants will increase safety for not only the airplanes, passengers and cargo arriving at the airport, but also, allow the airport to continue to grow its trade capacity, cementing the City’s role as a leader in international trade.” The Laredo International Airport is now in Phase 7 of an ongoing project to rehabilitate its apron area. An apron is the surface on which airplanes park to undergo service and pick up passengers and cargo. The Airport recently completed a renovation of its runways and taxiways. The Airport’s original apron pavement was installed in the 1940s and has a thickness of seven inches. After the rehabilitation is completed, the apron surface will be three times stronger and will feature a new pavement comprised of six inches of asphalt and seventeen inches of concrete. The new aprons will require less maintenance and will have increased capacity to handle larger aircrafts, like 737s and 757s. The Department of Transportation funds awarded to the Laredo International Airport come from the Federal Aviation Administration as part of its Airport Improvement Program. This grant is the most recent in a series of federal grants awarded to the Laredo International Airport. Since 2009, the Airport has received more than $50 million in federal funds.
06.01.2012	Yesterday evening, Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-Laredo) amendment to H.R. 5743, the Intelligence Authorization Act for FY12, passed the House of Representatives. Cuellar’s amendment seeks to leverage the force of the intelligence community to enhance border security and combat drug trafficking by expanding intelligence agencies’ information sharing with their counterparts in Mexico and Canada. “The growing operational and financial capabilities of criminal groups that engage in transnational criminal activity and traffic in drugs, arms and people pose a clear and present threat to the lives and well-being of U.S., Canadian and Mexican citizens alike,” said Cuellar. “This amendment is a common sense extension of our intelligence capabilities.” Cuellar’s amendment authorizes the Director of National Intelligence to participate in information sharing with Mexico and Canada for purposes of border security and combating drug trafficking. In addition, the amendment would give U.S. intelligence agencies the ability to use information shared by Mexican and Canadian governments in order to maximize the capabilities of all North American intelligence agencies. “Drug violence is a serious concern not only for the United States, but also for our neighbors in Canada and Mexico,” said Cuellar. “In order to maintain the safety of our citizens and the security of our region, we must be sure to use every bit of intelligence any of us gather to the fullest extent. Rather than each duplicating the other’s efforts, it is much smarter for us to work together.” The amendment includes provisions to ensure that no new information-sharing authorized by this amendment will compromise our national security in any way. The information-sharing is entirely optional, and the decision-making about which information will be shared is reserved for officials already entrusted with protecting our national intelligence. Cuellar’s amendment simply gives intelligence agencies the power to share information if and when the Director of National Intelligence determines such information sharing would be beneficial to efforts to stop transnational crimes. Cuellar’s amendment was included as part of H.R. 5743, the Intelligence Authorization Act for FY12. This bill authorizes 16 United States intelligence agencies and sets forth policy for intelligence related activities of the U.S. Government. The bill also includes policy changes for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and the National Security Agency (NSA). H.R. 5743 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 386-28. The amendment was supported by both the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence during the floor debate of H.R. 5743. The amendment passed unanimously on a voice vote. Cuellar is the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, which has direct jurisdiction over border security. The bill will now be reported to the Senate, where it is pending legislative action. A video clip of Cuellar’s remarks during the floor debate is available here.
05.30.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-TX 28) bill H.R. 915, Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act of 2011 passed the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote of 391-2. The bill enhances border security by promoting coordinated efforts and information-sharing among federal, state and local border and law enforcement officials. The Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act is named after fallen Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland Security Investigations Special Agent Jaime Zapata, who was killed in the line of duty in 2011. H.R. 915 would, for the first time, statutorily authorize and codify the BEST program. BEST units are inter-agency teams comprised of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) and other federal, state, local and foreign law enforcement agencies designed to combat cross-border crime. “When it comes to the vital matter of maintaining the security of our border, we need the collaboration and cooperation of all of our agencies to ensure that we are maximizing our resources to minimize threats,” said Cuellar. “BEST teams have already had great success in disrupting criminal activity and keeping Americans safe. This bill honors the service and memory of Special Agent Jaime Zapata by furthering the goals to which he gave his life: ensuring that the United States border remains strong and that border communities like the one he called home remain secure.” “The BEST teams have consistently been one of our success stories in our strategy to stop the southbound flow of cash and weapons that fund and arm the cartels,” said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, and a co-sponsor of the bill. “I can't think of a more fitting way to honor Agent Zapata than to add his name to our efforts to secure the border.” Specifically, H.R. 915 authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of ICE, to establish BEST units, direct the assignment of federal personnel to that program and take other actions to assist state, local, tribal and foreign jurisdictions with participation. The bill also directs the Secretary to report on the effectiveness of the program in enhancing border security and reducing the drug trafficking, arms smuggling, illegal alien trafficking and smuggling, violence and kidnapping along and across U.S. borders. “Agent Jamie Zapata died protecting our nation,” said Congressman Blake Farenthold (R-TX 27), a co-sponsor of the bill. “Border Enforcement Security Task Force teams increase cooperation between local, state and federal governments, securing our borders so that no family has to suffer the terrible tragedy Agent Jamie Zapata’s family has been through.” Zapata joined ICE in 2006 and was assigned to the Deputy Assistant HSI office in Laredo, Texas, where he served on the Human Smuggling and Trafficking Unit, as well as the Border Enforcement Security Task Force. On February 15, 2011, Zapata and ICE Special Agent Victor Avila were ambushed by members of Mexican drug cartels in the northern Mexico state of San Luis Potosí. The two ICE agents were traveling between Mexico City and Monterrey. Special Agent Zapata succumbed to his injuries, while Special Agent Avila, who also sustained injuries, survived. Zapata spent his entire life living on the southwest border. Cuellar is the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, which has direct jurisdiction over border security. The bill will now be reported to the Senate, where it is pending legislative action. Click here to see the floor debate about H.R. 915. Cuellar’s remarks begin at 6:24 as indicated on the clock on the screen. Hoy, fue aprobada por la cámara de representantes en una votación bipartidista de 391-2, la iniciativa de ley H.R. 915 “Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act of 2011,” introducida por el Congresista Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo). Dicha iniciativa busca mejorar la seguridad fronteriza al promover una mayor coordinación e el intercambio de información entre las agencias de procuración de justicia en la frontera. H.R. 915 ha sido nombrada en honor al Agente Especial de la Agencia de Inmigración y Procuración Aduanera (ICE), Jaime Zapata, quien falleció en el cumplimiento de su deber en 2011. H.R. 915 codificaría por primera vez, el programa BEST, el cual está conformado por equipos interinstitucionales integrados por Inmigración y Procuración Aduanera (ICE), Aduanas y Protección Fronteriza (CBP), la Guardia Costera de los EE.UU. (USCG) y otras agencias de procuración de justicia para combatir el crimen transfronterizo. "En lo que respecta al tema vital de mantener la seguridad de nuestra frontera, necesitamos la colaboración y cooperación de todas nuestras agencias para asegurar que estamos maximizando nuestros recursos para minimizar las amenazas,” dijo Cuellar. “Los equipos de BEST ya han tenido un gran éxito en la interrupción de la actividad criminal y en mantener la seguridad de los estadounidenses. Esta iniciativa de ley honra el servicio y la memoria del Agente Especial Jaime Zapata y promueve los objetivos por los que dio su vida: asegurar que la frontera de los EE.UU. siga siendo fuerte y que las comunidades fronterizas, como la comunidad natal de Jaime Zapata, sigan siendo seguras.” "Los equipos de BEST siempre han sido uno de nuestros casos de éxito en nuestra estrategia para detener el flujo de dinero y armas hacia el sur que financian y arman a los carteles,” dijo el congresista Michael McCaul (R-TX 10), Presidente del Subcomité de Supervisión de la Seguridad Interior y de Investigaciones, y un co-patrocinador de la iniciativa de ley. “No puedo pensar en una forma más adecuada de honrar al agente Zapata que añadir su nombre a nuestros esfuerzos para asegurar la frontera.” H.R. 915 específicamente autoriza al Secretario del Departamento de Seguridad Interior (DHS), a través del Director de ICE, establecer las unidades de BEST, dirigir la asignación de personal federal a ese programa y tomar otras medidas para ayudar la participación de las jurisdicciones estatales, locales, tribales y extranjeras. La iniciativa de ley también ordena al Secretario de DHS informar sobre la efectividad del programa para asegurar la frontera y reducir el tráfico de drogas, el contrabando de armas, el tráfico de personas, la violencia y el secuestro existentes en las ciudades fronterizas de los Estados Unidos. “El Agente Jaime Zapata murió mientras estaba protegiendo nuestra nación,” dijo el congresista Blake Farenthold (R-TX 27), quien es uno de los co-patrocinadores de la iniciativa de ley. “Los equipos de BEST aumentan la cooperación entre los gobiernos locales, estatales y federales, para asegurar nuestras fronteras para que ninguna familia tenga que sufrir la terrible tragedia que de la familia del Agente Jaime Zapata.” Zapata se unió a ICE en 2006 y fue asignado a la oficina adjunto de HSI en Laredo, Texas, donde se desempeñó en la unidad del trafico y trata de personas, así como la unidad de BEST. El 15 de febrero de 2011, Zapata y el Agente Especial de ICE, Victor Ávila fueron emboscados por miembros de organizaciones mexicanas del tráfico de drogas en el estado de San Luis Potosí, México. Los dos agentes de ICE viajaban de la Ciudad de México hacia Monterrey. El Agente Especial Zapata sucumbió a sus heridas mientras Ávila, quien también sufrió heridas, sobrevivió. Zapata vivió toda su vida en la frontera suroeste de los EE.UU. Cuellar es el miembro de mayor rango del Subcomité de Seguridad Nacional de las Fronteras y Seguridad Marítima, el cual tiene jurisdicción directa sobre la seguridad fronteriza. La iniciativa de ley será turnada al Senado para su votación. Haga click aquí para ver el debate de hoy sobre la iniciativa de ley H.R. 915. Los comentarios del Congresista Cuellar comenzarán a las 6:24 como se indica en la pantalla.
05.23.2012	Every year since 1963, the President has proclaimed a National Small Business Week to recognize the contributions that small businesses play in creating an economy built to last. As a former small business owner, I know firsthand that small businesses drive our economy, and I am proud to join workers and employers across the country in celebrating National Small Business Week. There are 28 million small businesses in the U.S., and small businesses create two out of every three jobs in our country. Half the people who work in America either own or work for a small business. In Texas alone, there are 2.2 million small businesses, and more than 98.7% of employers in our state qualify as a small business by having fewer than 500 employees. I will be marking National Small Business Week by traveling throughout the district to attend “Meet the Buyer” events in Mission, San Antonio and Laredo to talk to local businesses about government contracting opportunities for small and medium size businesses and offer tips about how they can create successful connections with agencies. I also made a stop today at the Floresville Chamber of Commerce for a conversation about how the work I’m doing in Congress supports our local economy. Of course, it’s important to consider the needs of small businesses all 52 weeks each year. Next week, I will be holding a videoconference to make sure constituents are informed about the many federal resources available to small businesses. The videoconference will be broadcast at locations across the district and will connect representatives from the Small Business Administration, Minority Business Development Agency, Internal Revenue Service and Department of Labor with South Texas business owners. For more information about this opportunity to learn about programs and incentives for small businesses, please call my office at 1 (877) 780-0028. To everyone operating or working at a small business, thank you for all that you do for our country. Know that you can continue to count on me to be an advocate for the small business community.
05.22.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced that South Texas school districts will now have the opportunity to compete for federal funding under the Race to the Top program. Race to the Top is a United States Department of Education contest created to encourage innovation in public education. Under guidelines announced today, the Race to the Top district-level competition will offer school districts the opportunity to compete for nearly $400 million in awards by designing plans to use individualized classroom instruction to close achievement gaps and increase the rates at which students graduate from high school prepared for college and careers. Congress approved funding for the Race to the Top district-level competition this budget year. “Education is the great equalizer, so this is good news for Texas schools,” said Cuellar. “By expanding the Race to the Top program to allow school districts to apply, the Department of Education is offering South Texas schools their fair shot at a piece of the $400 million pie should they qualify and win. I am hopeful that eligible schools in our community will take advantage of this opportunity to improve classroom instruction to help close achievement gaps and meet all students’ needs.” Previously, Race to the Top funding was distributed only at the state level. Texas was one of few states that did not apply to the Race to the Top contest, meaning that South Texas schools were not eligible for any Race to the Top funding. The Race to the Top District Program will build on lessons learned from the state-level competitions and award funds to districts that have the leadership and vision to implement a shift beyond a “one-size-fits-all” model of schooling to personalized, student-focused approaches to teaching and learning. The Department of Education expects to announce awards for a total of 15 to 20 districts of as much as $25 million each in December 2012. “We are inviting districts to show us how they can personalize education for a set of students in their schools,” said Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan in a written statement. “We need to take classroom learning beyond a one-size-fits-all model and bring it into the 21st century.” The proposed 2012 Race to the Top district-level competition criteria invites applications from districts or groups of districts serving at least 2,500 students with 40 percent or more qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. More information about the Race to the Top District Program is available here: http://www.ed.gov/race-top/district-competition.
05.18.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) sent a letter to Department of Defense Secretary Leon Panetta in support of the Texas Department of Public Safety’s (TX DPS) request for the procurement of excess equipment from the Department of Defense (DoD). The letter was signed by fourteen of Cuellar’s colleagues in the Texas congressional delegation. “With the drawdown in Iraq complete and most of the Operation New Dawn equipment in Afghanistan retrograded to the United States, it is inevitable that a large amount of excess equipment will continue to amass,” the letter stated. “The purpose of our letter is to underscore the continuing need in Texas for more of this equipment, as the TX DPS exerts considerable efforts in providing for the safety and security of the communities that are located along approximately 64 percent of the entire international land border between the U.S. and Mexico.” More than 1.5 million pieces of equipment have already been shipped out of Iraq over the last year and nearly 900,000 remain. Much of this equipment would be useful to the federal, state and local law enforcement in their efforts to secure the border with Mexico. “We know there is surplus equipment, and we know there is a law enforcement need. I will continue working to connect the dots between the two to ensure that we are sending this equipment where it is most useful in keeping our border secure,” said Cuellar. “I am grateful to be joined by fourteen of my colleagues in the Texas congressional delegation in this goal of reinforcing collaboration with Secretary Panetta to make sure that local law enforcement agencies take full advantage of this opportunity to get their hands on the tools they need in a fiscally responsible way.” This letter follows a letter that Cuellar and Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), joined by 17 border sheriffs from TX, AZ, and NM, sent to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta earlier this year requesting that he send surplus equipment returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to the Southern border with Mexico. “TX DPS Director Steven McCraw has demonstrated admirable leadership and vision in keeping Texans safe and seeking to better DPS’s capabilities,” said Cuellar. “I look forward to helping him continue the conversation with DoD as he works to get the equipment TX DPS needs to keep our border strong and our communities secure.” Cuellar, the Ranking Member of the Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, is leading the charge to have surplus DoD equipment sent to the Texas-Mexico border where it can be leveraged to support local law enforcement needs. In February, Cuellar hosted Defense Department Assistant Secretary Paul N. Stockton and South Texas first responders at Laredo Community College to discuss the DoD Domestic Preparedness Support Initiative, which coordinates the Department’s efforts to transfer technology, items and equipment to federal, state and local first responders. The letter was also signed by Congressman Joe Barton (TX-06), Congressman Francisco “Quico” Canseco (TX-23), Congressman Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Congressman Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Congressman Al Green (TX-09), Congressman Gene Green (TX-29), Congressman Ralph Hall (TX-04), Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02), Congressman Pete Olson (TX-22), Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) and Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21).
05.17.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) released the following statement after the Texas Army National Guard (TXARNG) reached a determination that it will not establish a South Texas Training Center in McMullen County: “I am pleased that the TXARNG has responded to the concerns of many in McMullen County and decided to look elsewhere to locate its new training center. Over a period of years, I have met with McMullen public officials and landowners and worked to convey their concerns to TXARNG officials. I thank the TXARNG for its willingness to consider the wishes of McMullen residents in its decision making on this issue.” “As the TXARNG works to find an alternative location for its South Texas Training Center, I will continue to communicate with both the National Guard and the people of South Texas to ensure that we are striking the proper balance between ensuring our local Texas National Guard can train and strengthen its readiness right here in our own community and taking care to fully examine any impact the training facility will have on South Texas residents. “The proposed South Texas Training Center would increase TXARNG presence near the border area as well as allow South Texas Guard Members, who currently have to go to Central Texas for training, to complete their training closer to home. I am glad that the TXARNG has demonstrated its willingness to cooperate with local communities and remain confident that we will find an agreeable location for this much-needed training center.”
05.17.2012	From “who is your inspiration?” to “who selects committee members?” Poteet High School students had a long list of questions for Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) today. And even though he is in Washington this week to cast votes on legislation, Cuellar was able to answer these students face-to-face using videoconferencing technology. During the half-hour videoconference that connected Cuellar directly to the Poteet High School classroom, Cuellar answered students that his parents are his inspiration and explained some of the procedural workings of the United States Congress. On the other side of the screen were 28 students enrolled in Poteet High School teacher Rosalie Rodriguez’s government class. The class is comprised of juniors and seniors. Over the course of the videoconference, Cuellar discussed growing up in Laredo, his educational background and his current committee assignments and legislative priorities in the U.S. House of Representatives. The majority of the videoconference consisted of a question and answer session in which students asked Cuellar questions on a wide range of topics. When asked by a student to offer five parting words of wisdom, Cuellar only needed three: “Stay in school.” Reminding the students that his parents were migrant workers, Cuellar told them that “education is the greatest equalizer we have” and urged them to set goals and commitments beyond their high school education and to remember to give back to their community. Cuellar frequently uses videoconferencing technology to stay in touch with constituents when he is in Washington for his congressional duties. This year, he has also held monthly videoconferences to keep constituents informed about federal grant opportunities. Local schools and colleges who are interested in scheduling a videoconference with the Congressman can contact his office at 1 (877) 780-0028.
05.15.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced that many Texans will soon be seeing a check in the mail from their health insurance company thanks to the medical loss ratio provision of the Affordable Care Act. Under the provision’s “80/20 rule,” health insurance companies are required to spend at least 80 cents of every dollar they receive in premiums on health care or activities that improve health care quality, rather than on administrative costs. If insurance companies fail to meet this standard, the Affordable Care Act requires the companies to pay their customers a rebate. “When Texans receive these rebate checks, they will have evidence they can hold in their hand of one of the ways that the new health care law is improving people’s lives,” said Cuellar. “The 80/20 rule helps keep insurance companies accountable and makes sure that consumers are receiving top value for their premium dollars—not supporting excessive advertising, lavish executive bonuses or inefficient overhead costs.” Insurance companies that failed to meet the medical loss ratio standard in 2011 are required to process these rebates no later than August 1, 2012. Companies that owe rebates will send customers a letter informing them how much they will receive. According to early estimates from the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, insurance companies will provide 15.8 million Americans with $1.3 billion in rebates in 2012. Texas consumers and businesses are expected to receive an estimated $186 million in rebates. Kaiser estimates that 92 percent of Texas consumers in the individual insurance market will receive rebates, which is the highest figure for any state in the country. Small group and large group market plans are each projected to pay about $30 million in rebates to Texas consumers. “Texans deserve to know whether their health insurance companies are being responsible with premium dollars,” said Cuellar. “The 80/20 rule is only one of the ways that the Affordable Care Act is increasing transparency and helping to provide quality, accessible health care for hard working individuals and families in our state.” Starting this summer, consumers can view their health insurance company’s medical loss ratio on HealthCare.gov. This tool will help consumers know whether they are due a rebate or if their insurance company is providing fair value for its premium dollars. More information about the medical loss ratio provision is available at http://www.healthcare.gov/news/factsheets/2010/11/medical-loss-ratio.html.
05.11.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) highlighted the importance of Medicare to America’s mothers and grandmothers. “Mothers Day is an important day to reflect how much the women in our family mean to us. As part of showing our appreciation and gratitude to the extraordinary women in our lives, we need to make sure that they have access to the health care they deserve. That is why I’m fighting to preserve Medicare,” said Cuellar. “In Texas, 1,705,200 women rely on Medicare, and I am committed to making sure that they continue to receive the services they need.” Older women, on average, live longer than men, have lower incomes than men and have more chronic health conditions than men—making Medicare even more vital to their wellbeing. The Republican plan to end Medicare as we know it would have a particularly damaging effect on America’s women: Women represent 56 percent of the Medicare population. Among the oldest Medicare beneficiaries (ages 85 and older), 70 percent are women. 49 percent of women on Medicare have three or more chronic health conditions, compared to 38 percent of men. Similarly, women have higher rates than men of many chronic conditions, including arthritis, hypertension, and osteoporosis. 6 percent of Medicare beneficiaries reach the prescription drug “donut hole” coverage gap each year. Women, in addition to people with diabetes and Alzheimer’s disease, are the most likely to end up in the “donut hole.” 57 percent of women on Medicare live below 200 percent of the federal poverty level, compared to 45 percent of men. “As we celebrate Mothers Day this year, I hope you’ll keep in mind how important Medicare is to the health of many of our loved ones and join me in my commitment to preserving Medicare,” said Cuellar.
05.11.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) expressed his support for the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) announcement that South Texas will not suffer post office closures. Previously, the USPS had announced that it would close many of its smallest post offices, including the eleven post offices in Cuellar’s district. These closures would have meant that South exas residents would have had to undergo the inconvenience of traveling far from their homes to visit a post office. USPS announced Wednesday that it will implement a new strategy that will enable it to cut costs without closing these post offices. “People across South Texas rely on post offices to pay their bills and receive essential communications like Social Security checks and voter registration cards. I am glad that the Postal Service has found a path back toward financial stability that will not put an unfair burden on people living in rural areas,” Cuellar said. “When these closures were first threatened, I joined several of my colleagues in writing a letter to the Chairwoman of the Postal Regulator Commission urging her to consider the effects these post office closures would have on my constituents. I am glad that USPS delivered a solution that will not interrupt service to the people of South Texas.” In 2011, approximately 3,700 post offices nationwide were targeted for closures by the USPS due to USPS’s financial struggles. In Texas, 200 post offices were considered for closure, including eleven in Cuellar’s congressional district. All eleven of these post offices in Cuellar’s district will remain open. These post offices are: Atascosa County: Campbellton and Christine Post Offices Frio County: Calliham Post Office Guadalupe County: Staples Post Office La Salle County: Fowlerton Post Office Starr County: Santa Elena, Delmita and Salineno Post Offices Webb County: Mirando City and Oilton Post Offices Wilson County: Pandora Post Office The strategy USPS announced Wednesday would enable USPS to achieve sufficient cost savings to move toward financial stability without shutting the doors on post offices serving rural areas. The strategy would be implemented in a two-year multi-phased approach and, once completed, is projected to save the Postal Service a half billion dollars annually. “The announcement from USPS that these post offices will remain open is a direct result of lawmakers’ inquiries and a shining example of how vocal, engaged Americans can make big differences on a national scale,” Cuellar said. The Postal Service will allow the Postal Regulatory Commission to review the plan prior to implementing changes and will also hold community meetings to review the options. Communities will be notified of the date, time and location of the meetings by mail.
05.11.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) joined Laredo Community College President Dr. Juan Maldonado to announce a $2,080,015 grant from the Department of Education to fund the Upward Bound Program. The grant will provide the program with $416,033.66 yearly for five years. “Thanks to this Department of Education funding, Upward Bound will be able to reach even more students in our community to encourage them to get the education they need to succeed in our 21st century economy,” said Cuellar. “I am very grateful to Dr. Maldonado for all of his hard work to make sure that we are helping Laredo students reach their full potential.” The Upward Bound Program aims to motivate first generation/low income students to pursue a post-secondary education. The program, which has served high school students from UISD and LISD for over 30 years, is made up of three academic components: a six-week summer program, fall and spring academic programs and a high school to college bridge program for graduating high schools seniors. As part of the semester-long programs, students participate in tutoring and learning activities. The program culminates immediately after high school graduation, when students enroll at LCC to begin their college education. “Upward Bound is an important college prep program for Laredo Community College because it provides an excellent bridge between high school and higher education for students,” Maldonado said. “The fact that the program has existed for decades is a testament to its effectiveness in helping high school students make college life a reality.” The Upward Bound Program serves 115 students annually from both UISD and LISD. This summer, 35 graduating seniors will be attending Summer Session 1 at LCC thanks to the Upward Bound Program. Parents who are interested in learning more about this program for their children should contact the LCC Upward Bound Program at 956-721-5238
05.11.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) joined the South Texas Rural Health Services to announce a $500,000 Affordable Care Act federal grant for improvements to the facility in Cotulla, Texas. “Thanks to the health care law, community health centers across Texas, including the Atascosa Health Center, will soon be able to significantly expand services to their patients,” Congressman Cuellar said. “People in South Texas who live far from hospitals rely on health centers for the majority of their medical needs. This investment in our community and its health will provide high quality health care, support good paying jobs and boost the local economy. Thank you to South Texas Rural Health Services for undertaking this important project.” South Texas Rural Health Services was established in Cotulla in 1975 and has since expanded into eight primary locations. The Cotulla facility is currently housed in an outdated sixty-year old building that requires continuous maintenance due to its flat built-up roof system, the high temperatures extremes and poor ventilation. The grant will fund the replacement of the roof with a pitched, framed metal roofing system to prevent leaks as well as an increase number of air vents to allow for free-flowing cross ventilation under the building. For future maintenance and service, waterlines will be relocated. The grant will also fund handicap exit routes in areas of the building that are currently not handicap accessible. The design and construction of the renovations will also include energy efficiency and green standards. “During these times of financial insecurity and reduction in funding, it becomes more difficult for rural areas to compete for resources to upgrade facilities – a necessary if we want to continue providing accessible high quality services to our populations in need,” said Mr. Alfredo Zamora, CEO of south Texas Rural Health Services. “Congressman Cuellar has dedicated his time and efforts to making sure our rural communities are justly funded.” South Texas Rural Health Services provided a total of 35,733 patient visits last year, ranging from dental and mental health visits to substance abuse and patient education visits. According to the Texas Association of Community Health Centers, the facility improvement project will create six jobs and have a total economic impact of $575,917 at the local level.
05.11.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) joined the Atascosa Health Center (AHC) to announce a new $5,000,000 health care facility in Pleasanton that will be funded by an Affordable Care Act federal grant. “Thanks to the health care law, community health centers across Texas, including the Atascosa Health Center, will soon be able to significantly expand services to their patients,” Congressman Cuellar said. “People in South Texas who live far from hospitals rely on health centers for the majority of their medical needs. This investment in our community and its health will provide high quality health care, support good paying jobs and boost the local economy. Thank you to the Atascosa Health Center for undertaking this important project.” Over its 34 years of service to the community, AHC has outgrown its currently facility in the old Pleasanton hospital, a 60-year-old building that requires constant maintenance. The federal grant awarded to AHC will be used to construct a 19,390 square foot medical, dental and behavioral health facility that will replace AHC’s outdated current facility. “The building of a modern health care complex designed to be a medical home for people of all ages, where individuals and families can access medical, dental and behavioral health services at one location, has been a part of our organization’s strategic plan since 2005,” said Monty Small, CEO of the Atascosa Health Center. “We have worked toward this goal in multiple phases for the past seven years. These funds will allow us to complete the final phase of construction.” The facility will double its number of medical exams rooms from ten to twenty, double the number of dental operations from four to eight and offer expanded behavior services as well as WIC (Women, Infants and Children) nutritional services. The project is estimated to create 58 full time jobs and generate $6.6 million in total economic impact in the local economy according to the Texas Association of Community Health Centers. The Atascosa Health Center’s mission is to provide accessible, comprehensive health promotion and quality primary health care services to residents of Atascosa and surrounding counties, regardless of their ability to pay. In 2011, the Atascosa Health Center and its two satellite clinics in Karnes and Wilson counties served 12,555 people through 38,087 medical, dental and behavioral health visits.
05.10.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) expressed his support for the United States Postal Service’s (USPS) announcement that South Texas will not suffer post office closures. Previously, the USPS had announced that it would close many of its smallest post offices, including eleven post offices in Cuellar’s district. These closures would have meant that South Texas residents would have had to undergo the inconvenience of traveling far from their homes to visit a post office. USPS announced Wednesday that it will implement a new strategy that will enable it to cut costs without closing these post offices. “People across South Texas rely on post offices to pay their bills and receive essential communications like Social Security checks and voter registration cards. I am glad that the Postal Service has found a path back toward financial stability that will not put an unfair burden on people living in rural areas,” Cuellar said. “When these closures were first threatened, I joined several of my colleagues in writing a letter to the Chairwoman of the Postal Regulator Commission urging her to consider the effects these post office closures would have on my constituents. I am glad that USPS delivered a solution that will not interrupt service to the people of South Texas.” In 2011, approximately 3,700 post offices nationwide were targeted for closures by the USPS due to USPS’s financial struggles. In Texas, 200 post offices were considered for closure, including eleven in Cuellar’s congressional district. All eleven of these post offices in Cuellar’s district will remain open. These post offices are: Atascosa County: Campbellton and Christine Post Offices Frio County: Calliham Post Office Guadalupe County: Staples Post Office La Salle County: Fowlerton Post Office Starr County: Santa Elena, Delmita and Salineno Post Offices Webb County: Mirando City and Oilton Post Offices Wilson County: Pandora Post Office The strategy USPS announced Wednesday would enable USPS to achieve sufficient cost savings to move toward financial stability without shutting the doors on post offices serving rural areas. The strategy would be implemented in a two-year multi-phased approach and, once completed, is projected to save the Postal Service a half billion dollars annually. “The announcement from USPS that these post offices will remain open is a direct result of lawmakers’ inquiries and a shining example of how vocal, engaged Americans can make big differences on a national scale,” Cuellar said. The Postal Service will allow the Postal Regulatory Commission to review the plan prior to implementing changes and will also hold community meetings to review the options. Communities will be notified of the date, time and location of the meetings by mail.
05.09.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) helped pass HR 2072, the Securing American Jobs Through Exports Act of 2011. This bipartisan legislation reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank’s charter, which is set to expire May 31, 2012. The bill also extends the Export-Import Bank’s authority to help financing for American exporters and raises the Bank’s lending limit to $140 billion by 2014. HR 2072 passed the House of Represenatives by a vote of 330-93. “The Export-Import Bank supports over 288,000 U.S. jobs at no cost to taxpayers and helps American businesses increase foreign sales by breaking into new markets. In February alone, the Bank supported over $441 thousand in export financing in my district.” said Cuellar. “Reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank is a victory for the U.S. economy and American workers because more American exports mean more American jobs.” The Export-Import Bank of the United States reports that, in Texas alone, it has supported 118 communities and 833 companies and financed a total of $9,674.70 million in exports during the last five years. During February 2012, the Ex-Im Bank supported total exports of $441,209.00 in Cuellar’s congressional district. Local businesses receiving support include A1 Truck & Trailer Supercenter LLC, a small business in Laredo and Alamo Group (USA) Inc., a small business in Seguin. “This is great news for thousands of American workers, businesses of all sizes and taxpayers who can cheer the fact that this bill will reduce the deficit by hundreds of millions of dollars,” said Thomas J. Donohue, President and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “This bill will guarantee a level financial playing field in export markets and ensure transparency in Ex-Im’s operations.” Established in 1934, the U.S. Export-Import Bank serves as the official export credit agency of the U.S. and helps manufacturers of all sizes gain better access to the private export financing they need to sell their products overseas. The Bank provides direct loans and credit guarantees to encourage U.S. exporters make sales in foreign markets, enabling American businesses to leverage demand in other countries. As Chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus, Cuellar has consistently supported trade policies that keep America globally competitive. The Securing American Jobs Through Exports Act of 2011will now go to the Senate for consideration, where it is expected to be taken up promptly. Key business groups have expressed their support for this legislation including the US Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufacturers, the Financial Services Roundtable and International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
05.09.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) issued the following statement on May 9: Today, I successfully secured two amendments to bills before the House Committee on Homeland Security. Bioterrorism and nuclear threats are a concern for national security, public health and emergency management. To ensure we are prepared for threats that may arise from an uncertain world, we need to bring homeland and national security, public health and emergency management professionals together to make sure that the nation is prepared to prevent, dete, and respond to attacks. H.R. 2356, the WMD Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2012, would help keep our country safe and prepared for biological attacks by establishing a new White House position to coordinate federal biodefense policy. My amendment would direct the Department of Homeland Security to provide information to participating state, local and tribal jurisdictions as well as the private sector about lessons learned following national exercises. This feedback will give Americans in the private sector and at all levels of the public sector the tools they need to protect themselves against and prepare themselves for the possibility of a biological attack. I also introduced an amendment to H.R. 3857, the Public Transit Security and Local Law Enforcement Support Act. This amendment would require grant recipients to start planning ahead for how they will maintain programs after their grant funding ends, encouraging them to leverage each federal dollar by working to establish a foundation for self-sustained capabilities in the future. Requiring grant recipients to begin planning ahead for ways they can maintain these programs on their own will save millions of dollars down the line and ensure that the federal government is making a long term investment our safety. As the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, I am committed to playing an integral role in keeping our country and its people safe, and I will continue to work to ensure our legislation is working toward those crucial goals.
04.30.2012	Last week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) was honored as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” by the Healthcare Leadership Council, a coalition of leaders of the nation’s premier healthcare companies and organizations. The award ceremony took place in Washington, D.C. “As a Representative of one of the most uninsured districts in the nation, expanding access to quality, affordable healthcare is a priority of mine because far too many people in south Texas live in medically underserved communities, and far too few of them have the insurance they need,” said Cuellar. “I am honored to receive this award for my work to support and expand America’s health care system, and I thank the Healthcare Leadership Council for promoting these important goals.” “Perfecting a 21st century healthcare system that is both affordable and accessible for all Americans and that provides care of the highest quality hinges on support for healthcare innovation. We need to constantly develop new and better ways to deliver care and link patients and consumers to the healthcare system,” said HLC president Mary R. Grealy. “We’re grateful for Congressman Cuellar’s leadership, dedication and hard work in advancing the quality, accessibility and cost-effectiveness of American healthcare.” Congressman Cuellar was honored at the Council’s annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. At the expo, Congressman Cuellar spoke to representatives from healthcare companies about new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices.
04.18.2012	Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (D-Laredo) Government Customer Service Improvement Act with unanimous bipartisan support, bringing it one step closer to becoming law. Cuellar’s bill, H.R. 538, would set in place standards to increase the quality of customer service provided by government agencies and ensure taxpayers get the quality of service they deserve. “The primary purpose of the federal government is to serve the American people. When taxpayers interact with a government agency, they deserve the same timely, reliable assistance they would expect from a private sector business. My bill would raise the bar for federal customer service and help improve transactions between the American people and the agencies that serve them,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With a sweeping 79% of Americans dissatisfied with federal government service, I am committed to changing how Uncle Sam and taxpayers work together. Improving customer service from passport issues to student loans to Medicare is long overdue; strengthening service to the public is vital to operate a better government.” Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, offered support for the bill and recommended that the bill move to the floor to be considered by the House of Representatives. Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the Committee, also voiced his support for the bill and underscored the value of customer service. The Government Customer Service Improvement Act would establish improved customer service standards for federal agencies, including the IRS, Social Security, TSA and more. According to the 2011 Federal Customer Experience Study, 79% of Americans believe the federal government can improve customer service, and only 31% are very satisfied with federal service. Additionally, the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office found that “the surveyed services’ standards were often made available in a way that would not be easy for customers to find and access or, in the case of two services, were not made available to the public at all.” Currently, U.S. law does not provide for customer service standards for federal agencies. “The Partnership for Public Service applauds Representative Cuellar for his efforts to shine a spotlight on government performance and ultimately make our government more efficient, effective and results-oriented,” said Max Stier, President and CEO of the nonprofit, nonpartisan Partnership for Public Service. “Having publicly-available data on the quality of federal agency customer service will raise a red flag for any agencies that are struggling and highlight best practices at agencies that excel in customer service.” The bill will now go to the full U.S. House of Representatives for potential floor consideration. The Government Customer Service Improvement Act: · Improves customer service standards by requiring the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop performance measures · Raises the bar for enhancing quality and access by establishing standards to increase the quality of customer service and enhance access to federal information and services · Puts a face on accountability by creating a customer relations representative within each federal agency who is directed to issue guidelines and standards for customer service, which would be made publicly available · Does not add to the deficit because it requires federal agencies both to use their existing budgets to enact these changes and to direct any savings created toward reducing the deficit
04.13.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) traveled to Cartagena, Colombia where he will join President Barack Obama for the sixth Summit of the Americas meeting. Cuellar, who is the Chair of the Pro-Trade Caucus, will participate in discussions with heads of state on the Summit’s theme of “Connecting the Americas: Partners for Prosperity.” As the representative from a district that is highly involved in international trade by rail, truck and air, Cuellar has been extensively involved both in free trade issues and in promoting secure international borders. Additionally, Cuellar spearheaded the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement and serves as the co-chair of the Congressional Colombia Caucus. The Summit of the Americas occurs every three years and presents an opportunity for leaders throughout the Americas to promote regional cooperation and jointly define an agenda for the Hemisphere. Cuellar is traveling to the Summit as a member of a bipartisan group headed by House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Connie Mack (R-Fla.).
04.10.2012	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) presented Mr. Pedro G. Garcia of Cotulla the ten medals entitled to him for his service in World War II. “Requests from constituents, no matter the scope or size, are handled with the utmost attention and care,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The request from Mr. Pedro Garcia was no different – from tracking newspaper records to corresponding with family members, I made it a point to see that Mr. Garcia received the honor and recognition he deserves for his service to our country.” Mr. Pedro Garcia’s son, Jose Garcia, wrote a letter to Congressman Cuellar’s office about his father’s honorable service and his desire to recover the service medals that were misplaced thirty years ago. Congressman Cuellar’s office, aided by Mr. Garcia’s family, began searching for documentation to send to the Department of Army to prove Mr. Garcia’s entitlement to the appropriate medals – even going as far as finding a newspaper clipping with Mr. Garcia’s picture proving he was a returning prisoner of war. After months of correspondence, Congressman Cuellar’s office was able to secure the medals below for Mr. Garcia. In attendance at the presentation were Garcia’s family members from across the state of Texas. Mr. Garcia, who was born and raised in Cotulla, dropped out of school in the fifth grade to assist his family and joined the U.S. Army in 1941. He was sent to the Philippine Islands and was captured in 1942 when American and Filipino forces surrendered to the Japanese. He was a prisoner of war for three years until the end of World War II. The medals that were awarded to Mr. Garcia are the following: · Bronze Star Medal Awarded to any person whom while serving in any way in or with the United States military after December 6th 1941, that distinguished himself or herself apart from his or her comrades by brave or praiseworthy achievement or service, that did not include participation in aerial flight. · Prisoner of War Medal The Prisoner of War Medal is issued to U.S. military personnel who were taken prisoner and held captive after April 5th, 1917. · Army Good Conduct Medal Awarded to an enlisted member who completes three consecutive years of service without any punishments, disciplinary infraction, or court martial offenses. · American Defense Service Medal with Foreign Service Clasp Awarded to personnel for active duty service from September 8th, 1939 to December 7th, 1941 for twelve months or longer. · Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with one Bronze Service Star Awarded for qualifying service within the Asiatic-Pacific Theater of Operations between December 7th, 1941, and March 2nd, 1946. · World War II Victory Medal Awarded to all military personnel who served between December 7th of 1941 and December 31st of 1946. · Honorable Service Lapel Button-World War II Awarded to U.S. military service members who were discharged under honorable conditions during World War II. · Presidential Unit Citation Medal with two Bronze Oak Leaf Clusters Awarded to U.S. Army units and allies for extraordinary heroism in action against an armed enemy on or after December 7, 1941. · Philippine Defense Ribbon with one Bronze Service Star Awarded for service in the liberation of the Philippines from October 17, 1944, to September 2, 1945. · Philippine Republic Presidential Unit Citation Awarded to U.S. Armed Forces personnel for services resulting in the liberation of the Philippines during World War II and U.S. Forces who participated in disaster relief operations in 1970 and 1972.
04.05.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined Zapata County officials for a ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Falcon Lake Boat Ramp today to mark the completion of an improvement project made possible by federal funds secured by Cuellar. “I am proud to see the results of my 2006 earmark and the completion of this project,” said Cuellar. “These improvements mean Falcon Lake will remain one of the predominant fishing lakes not only in Texas, but in the entire country. I thank Judge Joe Rathmell, Commissioner Eddie Martinez and the Texas Department of Transportation for their collaboration in this project and their commitment to supporting top-notch recreational facilities for the area’s residents.” The Falcon Lake Improvements Project was funded with a $600,000 federal earmark secured by Cuellar in addition to a $600,000 contribution from Zapata County. Cuellar worked closely with Zapata County officials to determine needs for Falcon Lake before pursuing federal funding to invest in these improvements. “For almost 60 years Zapata County has had Falcon Lake at its doorstep, but it’s remained inaccessible to a portion of our residents,” said Zapata County Judge Joe Rathmell. “The construction of this county park brings with it the recreational opportunities the people of Zapata County crave, as well as improve the public’s access to Falcon Lake. It is gratifying to know that Congressman Cuellar is committed to assisting us in improving the quality of life for our residents." In addition to this boat ramp, the Falcon Lake Improvements Project also includes a new pavilion, picnic areas, public restrooms, water and wastewater connections, new parking areas and lighting.
04.03.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, joined City of Pharr Mayor Leopoldo Palacios, Police Chief Ruben Villescas and community leaders to unveil three out of four acquired Humvees that will be used by the Pharr Police Department to help improve security for the community. The Humvees were acquired through the Defense Department’s surplus equipment program. “These Humvees are an excellent example of the resources that are available for our local first responders,” said Cuellar. “Equipment available through these programs is already paid for and can go a long way to boost security resources.” “We do our best to provide funding for our first responders, but we also need to look at other options to help fill in gaps in security resources. I congratulate City of Pharr Mayor Leopoldo Palacios and Police Chief Ruben Villescas for their leadership in securing the Humvees and for looking out for their communities’ safety. I hope to see more DoD equipment unveilings throughout South Texas.” The Humvees were acquired through the DoD Domestic Preparedness Support Initiative’s Excess Equipment Program, or 1033 Program. This program transfers excess military property to law enforcement agencies at no cost to the receiving agency. The Excess Equipment Program offers a wide variety of equipment, including helicopters, boats, tactical vehicles, and weapons. Agencies that wish to apply to the program need to contact the Texas Department of Public safety and once enrolled the agency will be able to access a website and review inventories of equipment available for acquisition. “The Pharr Police Department was able to secure several vehicles thru Department of Defense 1033 Program which will augment the department’s resources in addressing public safety in the City of Pharr,” said Villescas. “The vehicles will allow Pharr Police Officers to expand security operations at the Pharr International Bridge, provide for a higher level of response during Hurricane Season requiring evacuation of our citizens, and special residential neighborhood enforcement initiatives promoting public safety,” said Villescas. The DoD Preparedness Support Initiative coordinates the Defense Department’s efforts to transfer technology, items and equipment to federal, state and local first responders that are involved in counter-drug and/or counter-terrorism activities. Other programs under the initiative include the 1706 Program, which transfers excess military property to state firefighting and emergency service agency at no cost to the receiving agency.
04.02.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, joined City of Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, The University of Texas Health Science Center President Dr. William Henrich and VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System Acting Director Ms. Danna Malone at the ground breaking of the new Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic. “Today we celebrate the future of our veteran community, ”Cuellar said. “This groundbreaking marks yet another milestone to the mission my partners and I started three years ago of providing an increase in health services to the 6300 Laredo veterans. Our veterans rose to the call when our country was in a time of need, and it is only fitting that we honor their service by caring for their health and well being.” In 2009, the expansion project partners, at the direction of Cuellar, began searching for land for a new veteran outpatient clinic due to the growing veteran population and the need for more services. The land was donated by the City of Laredo, under the leadership of Council Member Johnny Rendon, to The University of Texas Health Science Center, the affiliate to the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic. “The City of Laredo is proud to be able to donate this land for the express purpose of providing much-needed medical care and services to our local veterans, who previously had to travel hours out of town to receive the treatment they deserve,” said Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “This project would not have been possible without the commitment of Congressman Henry Cuellar, who was instrumental in bringing all parties together to help find a solution to the challenge faced by Laredo veterans seeking medical care.” The new clinic will be 18,464 square feet and will replace the current 10,000 square foot facility. Expected to open in early 2013, the facility will provide extended primary care services, including: mental health, nutrition, women’s health, podiatry, dental, tele-health and social work services. Diagnostic capabilities will be enhanced with the addition of an in-house laboratory and general radiology room. “I am truly excited about this important project for our Laredo area Veterans ” said Ms. Danna Malone, Acting Director, VA Texas Coastal Bend Health Care System (VATVCBHCS).“We will be able to maintain and expand VA health care services with this new facility! I am very proud of that and I am very proud to be a part of this team effort and thank all of our project partners for their important support in this endeavor.” Dr. William L. Henrich, president of the University of Texas Health Science Center, said the new VA clinic will be the third building on the University of Texas Health Science Center Regional Campus in Laredo. “It is truly an honor for the Health Science Center to be a part of this project, which will serve the men and women who have selflessly served our country — our military veterans. We are very grateful to the city of Laredo for donating the land for this expanded clinic. We are also profoundly grateful to U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar, whose vision and effective leadership in Washington has made this day a reality by securing federal resources to build this facility. Finally, deep thanks also go to State Senator Judith Zaffirini, who is known for her legendary dedication, passion and strong support of higher education. In 1999 she authored SB 1288, with the co-sponsorship of then-Representative Cuellar, which created the Regional Campus in Laredo,” said Henrich.”
03.30.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, today urged U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk to support Mexico’s inclusion in the negotiations toward the creation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Cuellar, who is also Chairman of the Pro-trade Caucus, authored a letter that gained the support of 27 bipartisan lawmakers to Ambassador Kirk which cited Mexico’s vital role as a trade partner to the United States and in the global economy to become part of the TPP negotiations. “Mexico and the United States share more than a border. We share more than 100 years of history, and strong cultural and economic ties,” said Cuellar. “As a U.S.-Mexico border congressman I understand the importance of these ties on a day to day basis. Our economies are mutually beneficial and we can only grow stronger if we include our second largest export market in this trade partnership. ” The U.S. Chamber of Commerce indicates that trade with Mexico accounts for approximately 6 million American jobs, which could mean that more trade with Mexico will help boost job creation in the United States. According to the Secretariat of the Economy of Mexico, Mexico is the second largest export market for the United States, accounting for nearly $200 billion in consumption of U.S. goods in 2010. In this same year, U.S. exports to Mexico increased $34 billion, which helped with GDP growth. “The Trans-Pacific Partnership trade network stands to benefit from having Mexico, one of the world’s top ten economies, on the negotiation table,” said Cuellar. “I look forward to continue working with Ambassador Kirk and with my colleagues in Congress who have signed on to support Mexico’s inclusion in this critical trade agreement.” The letter sent to Ambassador Kirk highlights the positive impact that Mexico’s entry into the TPP would have on the U.S. economy and on the partners that are already on the table of negotiations. It indicates that Mexico is clearly prepared to join the negotiations because its network of free trade agreements includes 44 nations that represent 70 percent of the global GDP. This network includes three TPP members, the United States, Chile and Peru and Mexico is among the top ten trading nations in the world. The TPP includes trade agreements in industrial goods, agriculture and textiles, as well as provisions that will make the regulatory systems of TPP members more compatible so that United States companies can operate more seamlessly in TPP markets. Part of the negotiation framework also includes new emerging trade issues such as trade and investment in innovative products and services, including digital technologies. (Source US Trade Representative) TPP negotiations are ongoing and currently include the United States, Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. Members of Congress who co-signed the letter are: Francisco “Quico Canseco, R-TX; Mario Diaz-Balart, R-FL,; Jim Moran, D-VA; Lamar Smith, R-TX; Bob Filner, D-CA; Charles Gonzalez, D-TX; Steve Pearce, R-AZ; Blake Farenthold, R-TX; Gregory Meeks, D-NY; John R. Carter, R-TX; Trent Franks R-AZ; John Culberson, R-TX; Robert Andrews, D-NJ; Pete Olson, R-TX; Ralph Hall, R-TX; Kay Granger, R-TX; Ruben Hinojosa, D-TX; Pete Sessions, R-TX; Jeff Denham, R-CA; Peter King, R-NY; Jeff Flake, R-AZ; David Rivera, R-FL; Michael McCaul, R-TX; Albio Sires, D-NJ; Paul Gosar, R-AZ; Michael Conaway, R-TX; Silvestre Reyes, D-TX.
03.27.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, today voted for the Jumpstart our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, a bipartisan bill that will help boost job creation and rebuild the economy. The bill, H.R. 3606, passed the House by a vote of 380 to 40, and now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. The JOBS Act creates exemptions and modifications to existing securities laws and regulations to ease certain regulatory compliance requirements to lessen burdens small companies within those industries to allow more business development and job creation. It also encourages small businesses to raise capital and includes provisions to protect investors to ensure less fraud and necessary safeguard for those who invest. “This is the type of bipartisanship we need in Congress,” said Cuellar. “This is what we can accomplish if we reach across the aisle to draft legislation for the good of the nation. We need more compromise between parties so that we can put our economy back on a long-term track of prosperity.” The measure will boost capital formation for small businesses by loosening Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) caps and rules on when and how smaller businesses raise money from investors. Under current law, companies must register with the SEC when they first offer their stock publicly and when their private investor base reaches certain thresholds. “The JOBS Act is a step in the right direction to help re-energize our small businesses,” said Cuellar. “Small businesses, community banks and investors all contribute to raising capital and fostering economic growth for the business community and the nation. This bill reduces regulatory burdens, while providing protections to these entities, so they can focus on growth and more jobs. It is a stable and sound step forward for the industry.” Once implemented, the JOBS act will create a new category of issuers of initial public offerings (IPOs) of stock called "emerging growth companies" and remove or reduce some of the SEC reporting and regulatory requirements placed on IPOs. It also defines an emerging growth company as one for which the total annual gross revenue for the fiscal year prior to the IPO was less than $1 billion. Studies have found that a large part of small-business growth and job creation occurs after the company becomes publicly traded, which this measure allows to happen easier with appropriate reporting requirements. The measure increases the thresholds that companies must meet before they are required to register and file information with the SEC. It also raises the threshold for mandatory registration by companies with the SEC to 1,000 shareholders from 500, which is believed to assist small businesses and institutions by eliminating costly reporting requirements. The JOBS Act is supported by the American Bankers Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Texas Bankers Association among other groups. Cuellar also supported the initial House version of the bill passed on March 02, 2012 by a vote of 390 to 23.
03.25.2012	This week, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Congressman Ted Poe (TX-02) were joined by 17 border sheriffs from TX, AZ, and NM in sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, requesting that he send surplus equipment returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to the Southern border with Mexico. Over the next several months, a massive draw down of U.S. Forces in Iraq will occur. More than 1.5 million pieces of equipment have already been shipped out of Iraq over the last year and nearly 900,000 remain. Much of this equipment would be useful to the federal, state and local law enforcement in their efforts to secure the border with Mexico. “If we want to boost border security, we have to help law enforcement agencies beef up their resources to meet this demand. We cannot have one without the other,” said Cuellar. “We intend to keep the lines of communication open with the Defense Department so that we can help our border law enforcement agencies navigate the equipment application process. I join Congressman Poe and our border sheriffs to help reinforce collaboration with Secretary Panetta for the betterment of our border communities.” In January, Cuellar hosted a meeting with Defense Department Assistant Undersecretary Paul N. Stockton in Laredo, Texas, to brief South Texas local law enforcement agencies on programs available through the DoD Domestic Preparedness Support Initiative. More than 100 officers, including border federal law enforcement agents, participated to learn more about military surplus equipment and technology acquisition. Congressman Poe also introduced H.R. 3422 the SEND Act which would direct the Department of Defense to make 10% of certain equipment returning from Iraq to the Southern border available for use by law enforcement agencies who patrol our southern border. “We have brought this right to the Secretary of Defense, because border security is a national security issue,” said Poe.“State and local officials are on the front lines of the southern border fighting to protect Americans from spillover violence from Mexico. They do the best they can with what they’ve got but they are out-manned and out-gunned by the drug cartels and they are desperate for more resources. For years, the American people have invested their money in equipment that has been used to defend the borders of other nations; it’s time that we use this equipment to secure the United States. I thank Governor Perry for all the work he has done to secure the Texas border and I look forward to working with Secretary Panetta, Rep. Cuellar and the Texas border sheriffs to ensure that law enforcement has the equipment they need to protect our citizens.”
03.23.2012	On the second anniversary of the landmark Affordable Care Act, Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, shed light on the positive impact that the health care reform law has had on his constituents of the 28th Congressional District in Texas. “Today is more than a milestone, it is a remarkable reminder of the millions of people this law has helped,” said Cuellar. “Those of us who supported this law when the time came to vote knew the tremendous potential it had to improve Americans’ lives.” “Now, we see the projected figures of beneficiaries turn into real-life success stories of thousands of seniors, young adults and children in my district,” said Cuellar. “I am very pleased with the positive impact the law has had on my constituents. I look forward to continue working to provide quality, accessible health care for our hard working families.” The health care reform law was signed into law on March 23, 2010, with provisions that include health care and consumer protection benefits that have been gradually rolled out by the Department of Health and Human Services. In the 28th Congressional District, the implementations have had a positive impact on the district’s residents. For instance, a provision that allows for young adults to remain on their parent’s health insurance until they reach 26 years of age has benefitted 9,700 young adults. Thanks to the health care law, health insurers can no longer deny coverage to approximately 14,000 to 65,000 children with pre-existing conditions. Since January 2011, a total of 71,000 seniors in Cuellar’s district have received Medicare preventive services without paying co-pays, coinsurance or deductible. Notably, 3,900 seniors in the district also received $2.3 million worth of prescription drug discounts to help Medicare recipients who enter the “donut hole” and lose prescription drug expense coverage. More than 90,000 district residents have also benefitted from a provision that requires new private insurance plans to cover preventive care services without any co-pay, coinsurance or deductible. Services include regular pediatrician visits for children, cholesterol and blood pressure screening for adults, immunizations and cancer screenings. In addition, 430 small businesses in Cuellar’s district received tax credits worth 35 percent or more of the cost of providing health insurance to their employees. The Affordable Care Act will continue rolling out its provisions until 2014, during which it is expected that virtually all of the major benefits will be in effect. Testimonials from constituents: “Once I graduated from high school, I decided to work full time and save for my higher education,” said Amber Resendez, a Pharr resident of Congressman Cuellar’s district now attending The University of Texas – Pan American. “It was a huge relief to receive a letter in the mail letting my mother know that my health coverage would be extended another year while still in school. I was able to concentrate on my studies without the worry of what were to happen to my family financially should I get sick.” “In January of 2010, my husband was diagnosed with cancer, and the emotional stress was only the beginning of the battle,” said the wife of Gerardo Trevino of Laredo, Texas. “My husband was uninsured, and his pre-existing condition did not allow us to afford insurance. My husband went a year without chemotherapy until Congressman Cuellar’s office told us of the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan made available because of the health care reform law. My husband deserved a fighting chance – and this law made sure he was given just that.” “I have spent the past three years uninsured due to quotes as high as $900 a month from insurance companies because of my father’s health history – a price my family simply could not afford,” said Gloria Sasser of Seguin, Texas. “My husband and I had to save money and hope the amount would cover my expenses should I become ill. Next year I will be eligible for Medicare, and the Affordable Care Act, through not only its coverage options for those with pre-existing conditions but also its lowering of prescription drug cost prices, will finally allow my husband, four children and I peace of mind.”
03.22.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, today expressed disapproval of the proposed Republican budget for FY 2013, which was introduced this week by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, R-Wis. “Once again Republicans failed to learn their lesson from the last budget proposal by insisting on burdening the middle class and our seniors,” said Cuellar. “We cannot propose draconian budget cuts and proposals that will leave their well-being in jeopardy. We are a better nation than that and we can come up with better solutions to lower our nation’s deficit." “Ending Medicare as we know it will have adverse effects on our seniors and our economy. I stand with the 70 percent of Americans who want to keep Medicare as it is today,” said Cuellar. “As legislators we have the responsibility to provide effective legislation that will create jobs, grow the economy and create fair economic opportunities for every American. This budget does the complete opposite.” Budget proposal provisions include ending traditional Medicare by transitioning into a premium support plan or voucher system. In addition, the Committee on Energy and Commerce estimates that Medicaid cuts in the proposal would endanger health care coverage for more than 60 million Americans including 33 million children and 16 million seniors and individuals with disabilities Various groups have come out in opposition to the proposal with serious concerns over the changes to Medicare and proposed cuts. The AARP, which represents over 38 million members and other Americans age 50 and older, referred to the Republican budget as “lacking balance and jeopardizing the health and economic security of older Americans,” noting that the proposed changes to Medicare will remove its “promise of secure health coverage” for seniors and other beneficiaries. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, vouchers for Medicare as proposed in the Republican budget proposal “would require seniors to pay more to keep their plan and doctors they like.” A recent poll by the non-partisan health group, Kaiser found that 70 percent of Americans say “Medicare should continue as it is today, with the government guaranteeing seniors health insurance and making sure that everyone gets the same defined set of benefits.”
03.12.2012	Unmanned Systems Congressional Caucus Co-Chairs Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, and Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, R-CA, spearheaded a briefing with the Federal Aviation Administration on Wednesday to discuss updates on the expansion of the integration of UAVs into the National Airspace System (NAS). “Unmanned aircraft systems have come to play an important role in the mission of our military and law enforcement agencies,” said Cuellar. “We have to ensure that we work to enhance the accessibility of the usage of unmanned aircraft systems while adhering to all safety standards.” “The Unmanned Systems Congressional Caucus will continue to work with the FAA to ensure that the integration plan is a success,” said Cuellar. “I look forward to continue working with my colleagues in Congress and in the FAA and law enforcement. This is cutting-edge technology that has proven to be an invaluable resource for those who are tasked with securing our communities.” The FAA Reauthorization Bill, which was recently signed into law, included a provision to develop a plan for the integration of UAVs into the National Airspace System (NAS). The FAA is working with the Department of Defense to develop the integration standards using their experience in the field and safety records. The NAS integration plan is scheduled to meet its 2015 deadline. “Unmanned systems give our armed forces a definitive edge in combat operations,” said McKeon. “The FAA Modernization and Reform Act simply reduces a pre-existing timeline for the FAA to integrate UAS into national airspace.” The FAA also briefed the Caucus on another FAA Reauthorization Bill provision calling for the integration of unmanned aircraft systems into the NAS at six test ranges. The Request for Comment has been posted by the FAA on the Federal Register. The RFC will be published on Friday and will remain posted for comment for 60 days. The Caucus discussed the FAA’s ongoing work to facilitate utilization of unmanned air systems by rural law enforcement agencies. The FAA Reauthorization Bill has a provision designed to benefit these agencies. It requires, within 90 days of enactment, that public users of aircraft that weigh less than 4.4 pounds get a one-time Certificate of Approval (COA) from the FAA. The FAA will work with the Department of Justice to help guide these agencies in the COA process. The Congressional Unmanned Systems Caucus was created to educate members of Congress and the public on the strategic, tactical, and scientific value of unmanned systems. The Caucus will continue to meet with the FAA for updates as the integration plan continues its course.
03.06.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, received the prestigious Harry Hatry Distinguished Performance Measurement Practice Award, a national recognition bestowed by the Urban Institute’s Public Management Program. The Urban Institute presents the award to individuals whose education, training and consultation in performance measurement have contributed significantly to the practice of public administration. Cuellar has dedicated his public service career, as a representative in the Texas State Legislature and in U.S. Congress, to promoting performance measurement as a means to make government more efficient, effective and accountable to taxpayers. “I am honored to receive this distinguished award,” said Cuellar. “Aside from my work in public service, I believe Harry Hatry and I are kindred spirits. Harry was part of the development of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, and I believe we both understand that a results-oriented budgetary system provides positive outcomes.” Cuellar introduced H.R. 2142, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2012. The bipartisan legislation created a system for sweeping reforms to reduce wasteful spending. The bill was signed into law by the President in January, 2011. “My pursuit to make a difference in government performance will continue,” said Cuellar. “I aspire to leave a foot print on the path to a more accountable, effective and efficient government.” The Urban Institute presented the Harry Harty award on Tuesday at their 2012 Annual Conference in Las Vegas, Nev. Cuellar was unable to attend because the U.S. House of Representatives was in session. The Urban Institute is a non-profit organization that works to foster sound public policy and effective government. It was founded in the mid 1960s by a blue-ribbon commission created by President Lyndon B. Johnson, who saw a need for an independent, non-partisan analysis of the problems facing America’s cities. It is based in Washington, D.C.
03.06.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) announced the approaching April 6th deadline for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition, the annual U.S. House of Representatives art competition for high school students. “The art competition is a way to formally recognize the talents of students in our district,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Classrooms should allow students to grow intellectually and artistically, and the art competition celebrates and encourages student participation in the visual arts.” Initiated by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982, the nationwide annual art competition recognizes one student as the winner from each congressional district. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual Awards Reception in Washington, D.C. Each winning piece is displayed in an eleven month exhibit in a tunnel that connects congressional offices to the U.S. Capitol. “Whether it is the newest invention, cure for a disease or successful business model – all are much needed in our global workforce and stem from creative thinking, which is at the heart of this competition” Congressman Cuellar said. “I encourage students to take part and wish everyone the best of luck.” Elio Gonzalez, a graduated senior of Juarez-Lincoln High School in Mission, Texas, won the art competition last year with an inspirational rendition of a self-portrait. Currently, Congressman Cuellar’s district offices in San Antonio, Seguin, Laredo, Rio Grande City and Mission are accepting artwork submissions. For more information, please contact Congressman Cuellar’s office at 956-725-0639 or visit /Students/artcompetition.htm
02.17.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo), supported passage for HR 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, which passed the House by a vote of 293 to 132. The bipartisan agreement would extend the payroll tax cut, giving 160 million middle-class Americans, including 11.4 million Texans, an additional $40 in their pockets per month through the end of the year. The ten-month deal also includes extending unemployment benefits to continue aid for the unemployed and blocks a cut for doctors in their Medicare reimbursement rates. “The deal today is a positive switch of gears – it is bipartisan and includes some offsets, as opposed to what was originally offered by House Republicans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The bottom-line is this is a victory for the middle class, unemployed, doctors and seniors.” Under this measure, offsets include broadband spectrum sales, increased pension contributions by new federal employees, and cuts to Medicare hospital and specialist fees that would not affect patients, according to the House Ways and Means Committee. “The economy is getting stronger and we need to keep this momentum,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Extending the payroll tax cut means more money in Americans’ pockets that in turn can be pumped back into the economy. Doctors will not have to drop Medicare patients or seniors from their services now that they will not undergo reimbursement cuts. “The unemployed will be able to make ends meet by continuing to receive their jobless benefits in these recovering economic times. Millions of Americans will reap benefits from this package,” said Congressman Cuellar. This agreement extends through Dec. 31, 2012, the payroll tax reduction, the Medicare "doc fix" to prevent scheduled cuts in Medicare reimbursement rates to doctors and long-term unemployment insurance. The unemployment compensation program would be modified to reduce from 99 weeks to 73 weeks the maximum time individuals in high unemployment states could receive benefits. The measure includes a number of new conditions for eligibility for unemployment benefits. Under the measure, preventing scheduled cuts in Medicare physician reimbursement rates would be completely offset by savings from other health care programs. Extending unemployment benefits would be offset by requiring new federal employees to pay more towards their pensions and allowing for continued auctions of electromagnetic spectrum. The deal does not include numerous controversial provisions, including provisions that would have required individuals seeking unemployment benefits to have either a high-school diploma or GED certificate or to be working towards one of the two. President Obama on Thursday expressed his support for the measure and is expected to sign the bill.
02.10.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo), hosted Defense Department Assistant Secretary Paul N. Stockton and South Texas first responders at Laredo Community College to discuss the DoD Domestic Preparedness Support Initiative, which coordinates the Department’s efforts to transfer technology, items and equipment to Federal, State and local first responders. More than 100 first-responders and government officials participated in the briefing, where Asst. Secretary Stockton and Defense officials detailed programs for military equipment and technology acquisition. Congressman Cuellar and local first responders held a press briefing immediately following the meeting. “Public safety and homeland security are top priorities for me in Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The programs we discussed today provide a way for taxpayer investments in defense technology and equipment to be leveraged and brought back to our communities. I thank Assistant Secretary Stockton for visiting my district and meeting with the men and women who are dedicated to safeguarding our communities.” Sheriffs, constables, police chiefs and firefighters from counties including Webb, Hidalgo, La Salle, Atascosa, Maverick, Guadalupe and Wilson participated in Laredo or via videoconference from Congressman Cuellar’s offices in Floresville, San Antonio and Mission. The presentation included an engaging question-and-answer session with Defense Department officials about topics including the transfer of excess military property to law enforcement agencies at no cost to the receiving agency and the purchase of items used in counter-drug or counter-terrorism activities. This unprecedented visit by Asst. Secretary Stockton to Laredo marked a unique opportunity for South Texas first responders and government officials to discuss critical ways to help boost their resources and enhance border security. Congressman Cuellar and Asst. Secretary Stockton were also joined by Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar, Customs and Border Protection Laredo Director of Field Operations Gene Garza and U.S. Border Patrol Laredo Sector Chief Robert L. Harris.
02.06.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-TX), released the following statement after The State of Texas and the Plaintiff Latino Redistricting Task Force reached an agreement to accept a temporary congressional district map for the State of Texas: “This is a historic development: the State of Texas has, for the first time ever, created congressional districts to reflect the looming Hispanic Community growth – it creates a Hispanic CD in the Dallas Tarrant County Area and one in the Travis Bexar County Area. Hispanic will get two of the four new congressional districts. THIS HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE. In none of the past four decades has the State of Texas given the Hispanic Community fair representation. This compromise between the Plaintiff Texas Latino Redistricting Task Force, which includes Texas LULAC, MALDEF, GI Forum, Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, Domingo Garcia, former Mayor Pro Tem of Dallas, The Mexican American Bar Association of Texas, and the La Fe Policy Research and Education Center, and the State of Texas accomplishes two important goals for the Plaintiffs: 1. Creates two Hispanic opportunity congressional districts, (CD 33 and CD 35), which recognizes the enormous Hispanic population growth in Texas. Two new Hispanic opportunity districts is the largest one-time gain in Texas History. 2. It restores the CD 23 to the original Hispanic opportunity numbers. Hispanics will be able to choose their candidate of choice. It also restores the CD 34 (the old CD 27anchored in Cameron County) to a Hispanic opportunity district. Furthermore, the new CD 27 will be a Toss-up District. This compromise is supported by Congressmen Henry Cuellar, Lamar Smith and Francisco Canseco. This Compromise is the same concept of the proposed bipartisan plan 216. This settlement agreement allows the parties to quickly move forward with a unified primary election to avoid confusion of a split primary and prevents extra costs to the taxpayers. When I entered this lawsuit I had three goals in mind: 1. Provide fair representation to my constituents in CD 28 so we can continue the important work of providing a responsive government. 2. Make sure the Hispanic community in Texas was treated fairly by creating new Hispanic Districts. This settlement gives the Hispanic Community two of the four new congressional districts that Texas got because of the growth of the Hispanic Community. It creates one new CD in the Dallas area and one in the Travis / Bexar county area. 3. Since I was the only elected official from South Texas that was a plaintiff, I wanted to make sure that the South Texas Border Area, especially all important Rio Grande Valley Area is fairly represented. Because of our fight, we have restored the Cameron County anchored district (now called CD34) and the four additional congressional districts on the Border: My district, CD 28, and CD 23, 15 and 16. This gives us a total of five advocates to fight for the issues of importance to our border area. 4. To work closely with Congresswomen Eddie Bernice Johnson and Sheila Jackson Lee and Congressman Al Green to protect the African -American communities of interests in Dallas and Houston. This settlement accomplishes all of these goals and I look forward to proceeding with the all important election process. I thank my attorney, Rolando Rios and the attorneys with the Texas Latino Redistricting Task Force for a job well done in settling this Redistricting Lawsuit which is in the best interest of the Texas Hispanics and other parties.”
02.03.2012	Yesterday the Congressional Colombia Caucus Co-Chairs, Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Mario Diaz Balart (R-FL), and Gregory Meeks (D-NY) met with newly-appointed Colombian Labor Minister Rafael Pardo. The meeting focused on the bilateral relations between the United State and Colombia, including labor, trade expansion and economic growth. “Today’s meeting with Mr. Pardo reinforces the United States’ ongoing trade relationship with Colombia,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Continuing conversations with our trade partners, such as Colombia, are critical to our recovering U.S. economy.” “I look forward to working with Mr. Pardo and the government of Colombia toward opening markets that create new opportunities and higher living standards for families, farmers, manufacturers, workers, consumers, and businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Maintaining trade and security initiatives for the betterment of both countries is mutually beneficial for our countries’ ties.” “It was a pleasure meeting with Colombia’s Labor Minister, Rafael Pardo. Colombia continues committed to security in our hemisphere and around the world. They continue to fight for freedom, democracy, and combat illegal drug trafficking making tremendous progress on all fronts. As we continue to implement the free trade agreement, Americans as well as Colombians will have the opportunity to get back to work, strengthening both countries economically. Colombia is our great ally and friend, I believe our economic and strategic partnership will continue to grow stronger,” said Diaz-Balart. The Congressional Caucus on Colombia hosted the meeting with Minister Pardo. In 2009, Reps. Henry Cuellar, Mario Diaz-Balart, Gregory Meeks, and Aaron Schock co-founded the Caucus to strengthen political, economic, and security ties between the United State and Colombia. The Caucus has held meetings and briefings with Colombian officials and dignitaries including Vice President Angelino Garzon, Ambassador and former Defense Minister Gabriel Silva, former Trade Minister Luis Guillermo Plata, and former Ambassador Carolina Barco.
02.02.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) issued the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3835, a bill that would extend a salary freeze for Members of Congress: “If our hard-working American families can tighten their belts, so can we,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We are constantly praising Americans for their resilience during tough economic times,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Now it’s our turn to set the example and make do without a pay increase this year.” “Our economy is recovering and we need to keep this momentum,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a member of Congress, I am more than willing to do my part and vote for my salary freeze.”
01.25.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo) announced that nearly 32 million school children across the nation and in Texas Congressional District 28 will be eating more fruits, vegetables and whole grains thanks to new nutrition standards that feature healthy, revamped school menus. The new school meal menu requirements are part of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, which Congressman Cuellar supported and was signed into law in 2011. This law contains the most significant improvements to child nutrition programs in 30 years. “Our kids go to school to get a quality education, but we also need to make sure they receive nutritious meals,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is a step in the right direction to keep our children healthy now and to help prevent them from suffering illnesses such as diabetes and high-blood pressure when they reach adulthood.” “Fruits and vegetables can go a long way in safeguarding our future generation’s health,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I commend the school districts for the critical role they play in implementing these new standards. Our school children will enrich their minds and bodies with healthy foods to improve their performance in school—this is a good investment.” Sample lunch menus feature healthy meals such as a submarine sandwich on a whole wheat roll or whole wheat cheese pizza. The menu also lists a wide assortment of fresh fruits and vegetables and fat-free or low-fat milk. The healthy school lunch menu transition is also designed to limit calories based on the age of children being served to ensure adequate portion size. Elementary School Lunch Makeover: How the Child Nutrition Law Improves School Lunches Before After Hot dog on bun Whole wheat spaghetti with meat sauce Canned pears Whole wheat bun Raw Celery and Carrots Broccoli and Cauliflower Ranch dressing Raw kiwi Low-fat or Chocolate Milk Low-fat milk To help schools minimize costs, school districts will have the option to design the school lunch lines to reduce any waste. Children will have the option to pick and choose instead of receiving a served plate. The United States Department of Agriculture released these final nutrition standards, which will give schools time to implement key changes. The standards will be phased in over a three-year period and will be introduced beginning in School Year 2012-2013.
01.24.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress: “The President’s address has given us a roadmap with which we can move forward as a nation with a strong economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our economic future depends on the direction we take after tonight,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need to unite not as Democrats or Republicans but as Americans, and give our middle class the opportunities they need to bring us back into economic prosperity. “The families I represent and taxpayers around the country need Congress to put aside politics and get to work. They want to have a good job, buy a house, get educated, raise a family and we owe it to them to bring back this American dream. “While we have seen significant progress in the economy, there is still plenty of work to be done,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I look forward to working with the President and with my colleagues in Congress to do what’s best for the American people.”
01.24.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress: “The President’s address has given us a roadmap with which we can move forward as a nation with a strong economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our economic future depends on the direction we take after tonight,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need to unite not as Democrats or Republicans but as Americans, and give our middle class the opportunities they need to bring us back into economic prosperity. “The families I represent and taxpayers around the country need Congress to put aside politics and get to work. They want to have a good job, buy a house, get educated, raise a family and we owe it to them to bring back this American dream. “While we have seen significant progress in the economy, there is still plenty of work to be done,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I look forward to working with the President and with my colleagues in Congress to do what’s best for the American people.”
01.23.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement after Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords announced her retirement from Congress to focus on her recovery: “Gabrielle Giffords is a shining example of American character. Her journey since the tragedy is a true inspiration. “Her strength and resilience is remarkable. Her presence in the House will be missed, but her impact on us all will never be forgotten."
01.23.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) and Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (R-California) will sit side by side at the President’s State of the Union address on Tuesday. “We are sitting together in the spirit of bipartisanship and cooperation;” said Cuellar. “We may not always agree on our issues, but we understand that to get things done Democrats and Republicans have to work together.” Cuellar, whose voting record has placed him as one of the most centrist Members of Congress, said it is important for members to establish a working relationship with their colleagues across the aisle. “At the end of the day we’re all on the same side, that of the American people,” said Cuellar. “Mary and I are great friends and I am honored to sit next to such a hard-working, dedicated legislator.” Congresswoman Bono Mack, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade, said she too, is pleased to be sitting with Congressman Cuellar on Tuesday. “Congressman Cuellar and I have a history of working together on important issues such as consumer protection, veterans support and border security, and I am looking forward to continuing that relationship during the second session of this Congress, and for as long as we serve together in the House,” she said. “In tough economic times like these, it is more important than ever to work cooperatively to make America prosperous again,” said Bono Mack. “We don’t always agree on every issue, but Congressman Cuellar is a great friend, and is someone I have long admired for his commitment to bipartisanship.” President Obama will deliver his State of the Union address on Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. CT/9 p.m. EST.
01.20.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) praised an Executive Order signed by President Barack Obama today that will help boost tourism and travel and in turn help create jobs and foster economic growth. “South Texas is one of those ‘best-kept-secret’ regions when it comes to tourist hot-spots, and initiatives that are designed to spur tourism and travel are an excellent way to help showcase these treasures so that they fully emerge as the spectacular sites that they are,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today’s executive order affirms the tremendous positive impact that tourism has on our national and local economies, and reaffirms that we can protect our homeland and at the same time welcome visitors from all parts of the world.” Congressman Cuellar’s Congressional Texas District 28 is home to a multitude of tourist and historical sites and festivals that draw thousands of visitors each year. Nestled between Zapata and Starr counties is International Falcon Reservoir, also known as Falcon Lake, which is recognized nationally for its world-class bass fishing. Laredo, Texas, is known for its George Washington birthday celebration, a one-month long series of events that draws in thousands of tourists to attend pageants, parades, a carnival and a bi-national ceremony at the Juarez-Lincoln International Bridge. The Rio Grande Valley has an array of tourist sites including a world-class birding destination, the World Birding Center which spreads across cities including Mission, Roma and Hidalgo. Festivals including the Poteet Strawberry Festival in Poteet, Texas, and the Vaquero Festival in Hebbronville, Texas, are laden with tradition and carry with them a tremendous potential to draw visitors from out of town. South Texas is also home to many historical treasures such as the San Ygnacio Historic District in Zapata, Texas, the San Agustin de Laredo Historic District in Laredo, Texas, and the Seguin Commercial Historic District in Seguin, Texas. The Executive Order calls for various federal agencies to take steps to increase travel and tourism in the United States, including the Department of Commerce, the Department of the Interior, the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security. The new strategy will help improve visa and foreign visitor processing and improve travel promotion while protecting national security.
01.20.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar, (D-Laredo), today recognized the many health care benefits that the Affordable Care Act has provided for millions of Americans and will work hard to make sure these benefits are not taken away. “As each provision rolls into effect, we witness the real-life positive impacts that it has on our parents, children, and grandparents and our families can rest assured that their health care and well-being is protected,” said Congressman Cuellar “These direct results make it more difficult to understand why we would ever consider taking these benefits away.” “Our American families deserve to have accessible and high-quality health care, and I will continue to work to ensure that the health care reform law continues to safeguard Americans well-being, “said Congressman Cuellar. Under the reform, 2.7 million seniors, including over 2,100 seniors in Congressman Cuellar’s district, have received a 50 percent discount for brand-name prescription drugs once they hit the ‘donut hole’, an average savings of more than $500 per senior per year. Residents of Congressman Cuellar’s district saved more than $1.2 million in prescription drug costs. Since the Affordable Care Act passed, 2.5 million young adults now have health care coverage thanks to the provision that allows them to stay on their parent’s health plan until their 26th birthday. More than 24 million seniors have received one or more free preventive services under Medicare, such as an annual Wellness Visit, mammograms or colonoscopies. Also, 17 million children now have guaranteed protection because under reform, insurance companies are now prohibited from discriminating against children with pre-existing conditions. In January, 2011, House Republicans introduced the Health Reform Repeal Act, which would have reduced health care coverage and benefits, and repealed key new consumer protections that are designed to protect Americans and their families. Had the repeal passed, insurers would still be able to drop individuals from coverage if they get sick, and place a lifetime limit on coverage, which has in the past forced families into bankruptcy when a serious illness struck. The repeal would have also allowed insurers to impose low annual limits on coverage, which would increase health care costs for families.
01.18.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) released the following statement on a report issued from Woods & Poole Economics, Inc., indicating the out of 366 metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs),Laredo, Texas, ranks first for percentage job gains over the decade, with a projected employment growth rate of 2.51 percent over the next ten years. “Job creation is the lifeblood to restoring our economy and Laredo is on the fast track as a leader in the nation for projected employment rate. This report is a positive indicator that Laredo and Texas are moving in the right direction,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Laredo and its surrounding communities will reap the benefits of a 32,000-employment boost over the next decade that will help counter the nation’s sluggish jobless rate. In turn, this much needed jobs spur will pump more dollars back into the city’s economy. “The report’s findings are a welcomed sigh of relief not just for Laredo, but for the state of Texas and for the nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. Background Information: Laredo is estimated to have a workforce of 145,860 jobs in the area, an increase of over 32,000 jobs through 2022. The projected employment rate growth is 2.51 percent over the next 10 years. The Woods & Poole Economics Inc. report revealed the fastest employment growth rate for the top 25 of the nation’s 366 Metropolitan Statistical Areas, out of which Laredo ranked number one. The report also shows that the United States economy is expected to add over 25 million jobs in the next decade. According to Woods & Poole, much of the nation's increase in employment over the next decade is forecast to occur in the service industries such as health care, administrative services and professional and technical services. The health care sector is forecast to add the most jobs with an increase of 4.6 million jobs, growing at a rate of 2.18 percent and generating an additional 3.6 billion dollars in earnings. Education employment is expected to add over one million jobs at an average annual rate of 2.62 percent, higher than any other sector. The retail sector is also projected to add 2.6 million jobs.
01.18.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the City of McAllen will receive a $1,350,756 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for flood alleviation to the Retiree Haven subdivision. FEMA, under the Hazard Mitigation Grant program, has obligated funding directly to the State of Texas Department of Public Safety’s Division of Emergency Management, which will administer the funding to the City of McAllen. The City of McAllen will contribute $450,333 for a total project cost of $1,801,089. “The funds received by the City of McAllen for drainage relief will have a positive impact on 262 residences in the Retiree Haven community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The infrastructure funding will allow for less disruption in the daily life of residents and I thank the City of McAllen and Mayor Richard Cortez for successfully applying for funding. The City of McAllen will alleviate flooding in the Retiree Haven subdivision – an area where drainage is limited due to slow draining soils, lack of topographic relief and the absence of natural watercourses. “The grant received from FEMA will not only reduce property destruction, but will also minimize the costs of future disaster recovery,” City of McAllen Mayor Richard Cortez said. “I thank Congressman Cuellar for his close work with the City of McAllen in providing this much needed flooding alleviation to the Retiree Haven subdivision.” The infrastructure project will consist of the construction of curb and gutter, a storm sewer network, a storm-water detention pond with a pumping station and an outfall force main system. The location of the project is ¼ mile south of FM 1016 and on the west side of State Highway 336.
01.10.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) unveiled the naming of the “Schertz Veterans Post Office,” formally known as the United States Postal Service facility in Schertz, Texas. This post office was named in honor of those who served in our nation’s armed forces in Schertz, Texas, surrounding areas and the nation. “After introducing legislation that became law to name this post office in honor of those who served our country, I am pleased to see the product of my work to share with the City of Schertz. This state of the art facility serves the residents of Guadalupe County by providing valuable services - now we can also be reminded of those who fought for our freedom and those who are currently serving in the Armed Forces.” Congressman Cuellar said. “Five years ago, I assisted in funding to help build this post office. Today, I am glad to commemorate the final phase of another Schertz USPS project - renaming of the postal facility in honor of our veterans.” Congressman Cuellar worked closely with the City of Schertz in the spring of 2007 to replace the old postal building that was constructed in 1962. The new facility is approximately 8,000 square feet and is conveniently located next to the Guadalupe County Office Building. Last year, Congressman Cuellar along with the City of Schertz worked together to rename the postal building the Schertz Veterans Post Office. “Congressman Cuellar was instrumental in the building of a new post office five years ago that replaced our undersized facility,” City of Schertz Mayor Hal Baldwin said. “It was with no hesitation that the City of Schertz reached out to Congressman Cuellar again to rename our post office to reflect the large military presence in the community. I am thankful to Congressman Cuellar for his commitment to not only the City of Schertz but also to veterans that rightfully deserve recognition.” Congressman Cuellar authored legislation, H.R. 771, at the beginning of the 112th Congress to rename the postal facility. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives June 20, 2011 by a vote of 398 to 0. President Obama signed the legislation into law on October 12, 2011. “Guadalupe County has the second highest concentration of veterans in the district,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I would like to thank Mayor Baldwin for working with me to salute the 50,000 service members residing in the county. I will continue to support veterans for their allegiance and dedication to our country.”
01.09.2012	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) presented four medals to Mr. Rodolfo Marquez that were entitled to him for his service in the Korean War. “Requests from constituents, no matter the scope or size, are handled with the utmost attention and care,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The request from Mr. Rodolfo Garcia was no different – I made it a point to see that Mr. Garcia received the honor and recognition he deserves for his service to our country.” Mr. Marquez contacted the office of Congressman Cuellar to look into what medals, if any, he was entitled to for his service in the Korean War. His files were lost in the National Personnel Records Center fire of 1973 and after providing proper documentation of proof of service, Congressman Cuellar’s office was able to secure the following medals: · Army Good Conduct Medal: Awarded to an enlisted member who completes three consecutive years of service without any punishments, disciplinary infraction, or court martial offenses. · National Defense Service Medal: Awarded to those who serve on active duty in the United States military during a designated time period (includes June 1950 to July 1954 for service during Korean War) · Korean Service Medal Awarded to a U.S. service member performing duty in the Republic of Korea between June 1950 and June 1954 · United Nations Korean Service Medal & Ribbon Awarded to a military service member who participated in the defense of Korea from North Korean aggression between June 1950 and July 1954 Background: Mr. Rodolfo Marquez was born on October 2, 1932 and was raised in Pearsall, Texas. He was drafted to fight during the Korean War and served in the U.S. Army beginning March 6, 1953. He was appointed Corporal in July of 1954 and his tour of duty ended February 17, 1955.
01.05.2012	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) announced that he has returned to Washington D.C. and is ready to work on the challenges facing the nation, including job creation. The Republican majority is keeping Congress out of session until the third week of January. “We cannot afford to wait any longer to resolve the problems that the American people are facing,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The people I represent in Congress do not have the luxury to put their lives on hold for two or three weeks until Congress goes to session.” “As their voice in Congress, we need to get to work now and come up with solutions instead of obstructions. We need to work to reignite the American dream and make sure that we strengthen the middle class and those who are willing to work hard by offering them opportunities instead of barriers,” said Congressman Cuellar. House Democratic conferees are currently working hard to reach a bipartisan deal on the payroll tax cut, unemployment benefits and the Medicare doctors’ fee fix that will extend these initiatives for the remainder of the year. Congressman Cuellar encouraged the conferees to move forward on efforts to secure these extensions that if secured, will boost job creation and grow the economy.
01.03.2012	Congressman Henry Cuellar today urged residents of Laredo, Zapata and Jim Hogg to participate in the upcoming Eagle Ford Shale Job and Vendor Fair slated for Fri. Jan. 13, 2012 from 9:00 AM to 4:00 PM at the Laredo Energy Arena on 6700 Arena Blvd. in Laredo, Texas. The job fair is free and open to the public. “We’ve seen the tremendous positive economic impact that the Eagle Ford Shale boom has had for many communities in South Texas” said Congressman Cuellar. “This job fair will provide a much-needed platform that will inform local job-seekers about the diverse job opportunities that are available in this booming industry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is very important that we get as many people to take advantage of this significant opportunity to meet one-on-one with potential employers.” “I thank the City of Laredo, the Laredo Chamber of Commerce, the Texas Workforce Commission, and our dedicated partners for their hard work and dedication in coordinating this event,” said Congressman Cuellar. Job fair attendees will be able to meet with drilling and support companies that are looking for skilled employees. Private-interview areas, computers for on-line applications and an exhibition area for companies and vendors will be available on site. The job fair is a collaboration between Congressman Cuellar, the City of Laredo, the Laredo Chamber of Commerce, the Texas Workforce Commission, Laredo Community College, Texas A&M International University, State Rep. Richard Raymond, the Laredo Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Workforce Solutions for South Texas. For information, please contact the Laredo Convention and Visitors Bureau at 956-795-2200.
12.20.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar praised the Department of Homeland Security’s and Department of Defense partnership for a new border security strategy that shifts National Guard troops stationed along the Southwest border’s mission to aerial surveillance support for U.S. Customs and Border Protection. “Since 2006, the National Guard’s presence along the U.S.-Mexico border has been a critical support for Customs and Border Protection’s mission to protect and secure our border, and they’ve always had my support,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Now, with record-high Border Patrol agent staffing levels and low unauthorized immigrant apprehension rates, we need to start looking at more cost-effective and efficient ways to spend our homeland security dollars.” “I applaud the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense for approaching the Guard’s mission in a multi-layered approach by shifting to aerial surveillance support. This is certainly a welcomed boost for our border law enforcement agencies,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The more we can tap into cutting-edge technologies to support our agents, the better prepared they will be to protect our border communities.” An increase in DHS assets, including a record number of Border Patrol agents stationed along the border, has bolstered the transition as part of a new strategic approach, adding several multi-purpose aerial assets equipped with the latest surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities. This aerial support will provide “eyes in the sky” that will increase Border Patrol’s response capabilities, allowing them to quickly move from one location to another to address emerging threats of illegal activity. The Department of Defense has allocated $60 million for aerial surveillance support, which will provide for aircraft including OH-58 Kiowa helicopters and UH-72 Lakota helicopters, as well as fixed-wing aircraft, such as the RC-26. The package of DoD assets will be equipped with sensors fit for aerial monitoring and surveillance that is necessary to assist CBP’s interdiction operations. The Defense Department will reduce National Guard troops stationed along the border from 1,200 to below 300. Allocation of these troops across border states will be driven by CBP threat assessments, though these figures have yet to be determined. National Guard Border Mission Background Currently, approximately 1,200 National Guard troops are stationed along the Southwestern border in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. The National Guard troop presence in the U.S.-Mexico border initiated with Operation Jumpstart in 2006. The first deployment went through July 2008, and a second deployment of 1,200 troops was launched from July 2010 to September 2011. The National Guard’s mission on the border is to assist the U.S. Border Patrol with the detection and prevention of the smuggling of contraband and to support the agency’s efforts to stem the flow of unauthorized immigration. The number of unauthorized immigrant apprehensions decreased from 1.6 million in 2000 to 327,577 in 2011, which is an 80 percent decrease. In 2010, with Congressman Cuellar’s support, the Southwest Border Supplemental was passed and signed into law, a measure that provided $600 million supplemental, which provided additional technology, manpower and infrastructure for the Southwest border. This included $306 million for CBP that allowed the hiring of 1,000 Border Patrol Agents. Currently, there are 18,500 agents stationed along the Southwest border.
12.20.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar expressed support for the Senate amendment to H.R. 3630, the Middle Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011, a measure that would have prevented tax hikes for 160 million American families on Jan. 01, 2012, and extended unemployment benefits for 2.3 million of Americans. “I am dismayed that House Republicans refused to bring up bipartisan legislation that would have provided American middle-class families tax cuts and maintained unemployment benefits to help those who rely on this assistance to make ends meet,” said Congressman Cuellar. House Republicans did not bring up the Senate amendment to H.R. 3630 for consideration in the House of Representatives, instead they brought up a Motion that the House disagree to the Senate Amendments to H.R. 3630, Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011 and requested a conference with the U.S. Senate, as well as Democratic Motion to Instruct Conferees. Congressman Cuellar opposed both the motion and the conference. “This is a trouble-making, not a problem-solving strategy by the House Majority and it is not effective legislating. House Republicans have stepped over a bipartisan bill that passed the Senate with 89 votes, including 80 percent of Senate Republicans and their leadership team. Just last week, the Speaker supported the Senate bill and referred to it as a ‘good deal’. This switch of political gears and refusal to provide tax relief and extend jobless benefits is warped politics and has caused Americans’ record-breaking frustrations with Washington. I am disappointed that the middle-class will welcome the New Year with tax hikes and the unemployed will be impaired by no longer having maintained assistance with jobless benefits. “I hope that we continue work before leaving for the year to provide relief to Americans. I uphold my promise to protect our families and those who are hit hardest during this fragile economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. Background: The House Republican Leadership brought up for consideration in the House of Representatives a procedural vote on disagreeing to the Senate amendment and requesting a Conference. The motion that the House Disagree to the Senate Amendments and request a Conference with the Senate on H.R. 3630, Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011 is a motion that would stop the Senate proposal from being enacted into law. The motion was adopted by a vote of 229 – 193. The motion guarantees that the House will not vote on the bipartisan Senate agreement, which 39 Senate Republicans and 50 Senate Democrats supported. While not brought up for a vote in the House, Congressman Cuellar has expressed support for the Senate’s Amendment H.R. 3630, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011 will extend the payroll tax cut and extend unemployment benefits that would be good up to 99 weeks. The bill would have also allowed 48 million Americans on Medicare access to their doctors by addressing Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors to prevent a 27.4 percent cut. The bill also requires the President to grant a permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline project within 60 days. It also includes an extension of Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). Additionally, this bill does not violate CUTGO and would cut the deficit by $3B over the decade, according to CBO. Additionally, Congressman Cuellar became a cosponsor of the bipartisan Senate compromise bill to extend the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance and Medicare reimbursement rates to physicians through February 29, 2012. This was supported in the Senate by 89 Senators and gained support from House Democrats with the intention to bring up the bill for a vote.
12.16.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for the Fiscal Year 2012 Omnibus Bill, which prevents a potential government shutdown and provides funding for critical domestic programs. The bill passed by a vote of 296 to 121. “While I am relieved that Congress reached a deal to avert a government shut down and fund programs that are critical for the American people, I am also disheartened that this 1,200-page bill was filed last night at midnight,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In past years, our Republican friends have complained about Democrats for filing emergency bills at short notice, and today members of Congress had to rush to read every page of this must-pass appropriations bill. This does not live up to a pledge the Majority made to ensure all bills are available for debate at least three days before coming to a vote on the House floor.” “I hope that the next time we consider legislation of this magnitude, we avoid last-minute stand-offs and work in a bi-partisan manner for the American people who expect us to get the job done,” said Congressman Cuellar. The omnibus bill contains 9 appropriations bills that provide funding for domestic programs such as national security, benefit programs for veterans and active military and homeland security efforts for border protection. The bills will fund Defense, Energy and Water, Homeland Security, Labor/Health and Human Services, Education, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, Financial Services, the Legislative Branch and State and Foreign Operations. The appropriations package remains consistent with the Budget Control Act’s $1.043 trillion cap on FY 2012 discretionary spending.
12.14.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) released this statement after President Obama’s address to U.S. troops at Ft. Bragg today: “Our troops have sacrificed greatly to protect the American and the Iraqi peoples’ freedoms. Today we mark our next relationship with a new Iraq, governed with the freedoms we hold so dearly. When President Bush began this engagement in 2002, we as nation made a commitment to finish the job, and leave Iraq a free and sovereign nation. Today that promise is realized. Now we must hold our promise to the American people to not put our brothers and sisters, daughters and sons, and mothers and fathers in harm’s way one moment longer than needed. We will never forget the nearly 4,500 soldiers who made the ultimate sacrifice. This holiday season is a chance for many of us to reflect on their courage and bravery. We were not immune from the loss in South Texas, as neighbors from throughout the 28th District of Texas gave the ultimate sacrifice. Instead of asking to come home they were fully committed to the cause and dedicated to the ideals of what makes the United States a beacon of democracy. I fully agree with President Obama in determining to end this engagement now and stand with him in declaring a successful mission. I pray for the safe return of our troops.”
12.14.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar highlights the United States Postal Service’s announcement yesterday to delay closing or consolidating any Post Office or mailing facility until May 1, 2012. Earlier this year, approximately 3,700 post offices were targeted for closures this year by the USPS due to financial struggles, including mail volume declining and changing customer habits. The USPS planned to conduct studies on certain post offices to determine which facilities are subject to closure. “Over 200 Texas post offices were being considered for closure, including eleven in my congressional district, which is made up largely of rural communities. I understand the importance of ensuring accessible mail delivery and access for those who rely on USPS services,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I, along with other lawmakers, sent a letter to the Chairwoman of the Postal Regulator Commission to oppose post office closures and support a more thoughtful reform that fixes errors of the past.” Congressman Cuellar signed onto a letter dated September 15, 2011 sent to Honorable Ruth Goldway, Chairwoman of the Postal Regulator Commission that stated possible 3,653 post office closures are the wrong way to handle fiscal problems within the USPS. Instead, the letter asks that reform be made to the 2006 Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act. “The announcement from USPS of the closure delays is a first step toward uninterrupted mail delivery services to millions,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I look forward to working toward responsible solutions to support the sustainability of thousands of post offices.”
12.12.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar held a grants videoconference on arts and humanities in the 28th District of Texas to provide invaluable information on resources available for schools, libraries and local organizations. The meeting connected federal agencies in Washington D.C. with universities, school districts, higher education institutions, libraries and local museums. The meetings were held at Congressman Cuellar’s district offices in Laredo and San Antonio and via telephone conference call. “We need to continue fostering literature, music, art and film so that we can maintain the traditions, vitality and local color of South Texas ,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have so many talented musicians, artists and writers in my district, it is important that we work together to bring these resources home and continue discovering our diverse and unique talents.” Speakers and participants included the National Endowment for the Humanities’ Humanities Texas, the National Endowment for the Arts and Texas Lutheran University. Texas Lutheran is a former NEA grant recipient and they were at hand to discuss their personal experience on the application process. Approximately 30 attendees participated in the event.
12.12.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar today lauded the unveiling of new Spanish-language Public Service Announcements for the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) “If You See Something, Say Something” public awareness campaign. Starting today, Spanish-language PSAs that inform viewers about how to notify authorities regarding potential threats will run in radio stations and televisions in Texas, California, Colorado, New York, Arizona, New Mexico, Florida and Puerto Rico. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano unveiled the campaign today at a roundtable meeting with Hispanic law enforcement groups at the White House. “The ‘If You See Something, Say Something’ public awareness campaign is an excellent crime prevention program and I am elated to see that it is now tailored to inform our Spanish-speaking community,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our law enforcement agencies must continue to have a tight-knit relationship with our communities so that we can maintain a unified front when confronting criminal threats.” “I congratulate Secretary Napolitano and the Department of Homeland Security for their diligent efforts in keeping our communities well-informed on this initiative,” said Congressman Cuellar. The “If You See Something, Say Something” campaign was initially implemented by New York City’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority and it is now licensed to DHS for a nationwide campaign. The campaign is designed to engage the public and key frontline employees to identify and report indicators of terrorism, crime and other threats to the proper transportation and law enforcement authorities. The Homeland Security Department has worked over the past year with federal, state, local and private sector partners to expand the campaign. They have worked with the Department of Justice on the Suspicious Activity Reporting (SAR) Initiative, which is an administration effort to train state and local law enforcement to recognize behaviors and indicators related to terrorism, crime and other threats. For more information on the “If You See Something, Say Something” campaign, visit www.dhs.gov.
12.09.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar has pledged to stand up for America’s middle- class families and small businesses by supporting the extension of payroll tax cuts and unemployment benefits. The payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits are set to expire on December 31st, 2011. “Now is the time to step it up for middle-class Americans and help those without a job stay afloat,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We cannot go back home to our districts without getting the job done and putting these critical dollars back in the pockets of the very same hard-working families who sent us to Washington to speak for them. We vowed to be their voice in Congress and now they need us to do the right thing.” “Extending these cuts will also help our biggest job-creators—small businesses—with a payroll tax cut that in turn will help create jobs and in turn boost the economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. Background Information Payroll Tax Cut The current payroll tax cut provision lowered the employee portion of the Social Security payroll tax from 6.2 percent to 4.2 percent for 2011. This is set to expire on December 31st, 2011. If extended, the tax cut would provide up to $1,500 for a middle income family, and 160 million middle-class Americans would be provided tax relief. The payroll tax cut also assists small businesses by cutting payroll taxes from 6.2 percent to 3.1 percent on the first $5 million in wages. If the payroll tax cut is not extended, an estimated 400,000 jobs would be lost in 2012. In 2011, 11.4 million Texas benefitted from the tax cut, which put more money in their pockets and allowed for consumer spending that in turn boosts the economy. The payroll tax cut was included in the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Jobs Creation Act of 2010, a bi-partisan bill that was introduced to prompt economic growth and create jobs. Unemployment Insurance Benefits The unemployment insurance benefits are currently up to 99 weeks, if they are not extended, they will be reduced to 26 weeks. Congress also has the option to choose to extend unemployment benefits anywhere between 26 and 99 weeks. An estimated one-third of the 14 million unemployed Americans receive unemployment benefits, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Every $1 spent on unemployment insurance benefits yields $1.61 in economic activity, according to Moody’s Analytics.
12.02.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced the passage of H.R. 527, the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act and H.R. 3010, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2011, which would reduce and streamline the process for government regulations to accelerate the economy by allowing job growth opportunities. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 527 by a vote of 262 to 159 and H.R. 3010 by a vote of 253 to 167. “As a former small business owner, I know the difficulties of conducting efficient business while dealing with heavy federal regulations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “At a time when our top priority in Congress should be job creation, these two pieces of deregulation legislation ease the burden on small businesses and in turn help boost job creation and help put Americans back to work.” H.R. 527, the Regulatory Flexibility Improvement Act, amends a 30 year-old law by addressing the regulatory process. It requires assessing the economic impact of regulations before implementing and ensuring that indirect costs are also taken into account. Additionally, the legislation includes an assessment of rules that are duplicative, overlaps, or conflicts with other Federal rules to ensure an avoidance of over-regulation. A recent Small Business Administration study found that federal regulations impose an annual cost of $1.75 trillion dollars on the American economy which is 14 percent of the U.S. national income. “We need to cut the bureaucratic, red tape that is stifling innovation and job growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Currently, up to 4,000 final federal rules are issued each year – improving the decision-making process and addressing overregulation in turn helps the country and especially main street.” H.R. 3010, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2011, is a bipartisan bill that lowers the cost of regulation, improves agencies’ decision-making process and enhances regulatory transparency and accountability. The bill modifies the federal rule-making process by requiring agencies to consider numerous criteria when issuing rules, including alternatives to rule proposals and potential costs and benefits. In the past two Administrations, President Obama approved 614 federal rules within two years of his term, while President George W. Bush, at the same tenure, approved 643 federal rules – 4.7 percent more than the current Administration. According to the non-partisan U.S. Government Accountability Office, in the past year, the cost range of new regulations was estimated to be $8 billion, which is a decrease from 2010.
11.30.2011	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar praised the addition of a new preventive service to Medicare’s preventive services that are available for recipients under the Affordable Care Act. “Preventive health services are an excellent way to help keep our Medicare beneficiaries in good health and help keep their medical expenses low by reducing their doctor’s office visits,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Obesity can cause serious illnesses and by offering this preventive service, Medicare is helping our seniors and persons with disabilities improve their health and quality of life.” The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services announced that eligible Medicare recipients will be able to receive screenings for obesity and counseling without cost sharing. Benefits include one face-to-face counseling visit each week for one month and one face-to-face counseling visit every other week for an additional five months. If the beneficiary achieves a weight reduction of at least 6.6 pounds during the first six months of counseling, they may receive one face-to-face counseling monthly visit for an additional six months. (Source: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.) For more information on Medicare’s preventive services coverage, visit the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services website at www.cms.gov.
11.22.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) cosponsored and supported the passage of H.R. 674, the Government Withholding Repeal, which was signed into law by President Obama yesterday. The bill, which is now public law, includes provisions that will help boost job opportunities for veterans and encourage business growth. “One of the most important things that we can do during these challenging economic times is help our businesses put more Americans back to work,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This legislation is a two-fold benefit to our country: it will help spur job creation by assisting businesses and local governments in repealing a withholding tax and it will help put our veterans and returning men and women in uniform back to work through tax credits. Pursuing policies that encourage businesses to continue their day-to-day operations by keeping their capital to expand, as well as incentives to hire veterans is a smart, no-cost, job-spurring agenda.” The bill includes tax credits for businesses that hire unemployed veterans, transition assistance and job training for members of the armed forces who are returning home and re-entering the civilian workforce. The provisions also create a program that will provide up to 12 months of retraining assistance for veterans. Specifically, it provides businesses with a tax credit of up to $5,600 for hiring veterans who have been looking for a job for more than six months, as well as a $2,400 credit for veterans who are unemployed for more than 4 weeks, but less than 6 months. Additionally, the law provides a tax credit of up to $9,600 for hiring veterans with service-connected disabilities who have been looking for a job for more than six months. In addition to helping put veterans back into the workforce, the bill also repeals a 2006 law which requires local, state and federal governments to withhold 3 percent of payments to government contractors, Medicare recipients, farmers, and vendors. This was originally mandated to enforce tax compliance and close the gap between taxes owned and collected. This repeal measure will help businesses keep their funds that will in turn help hire more employees and boost job creation, instead of sending those funds to the IRS. H.R. 674 initially passed the House on Oct. 27, 2011 by a vote of 405 to 16. Congressman Cuellar cosponsored H.R. 674 on March 31, 2011 and supported passage in the U.S. House of Representatives on October 27, 2011, as well as the Senate amendment to the bill on November 16, 2011. President Obama signed this bill into law on November 21, 2011. This legislation was supported by the Chamber of Commerce, National Governors Association, and Associated Builders and Contractors.
11.21.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after it was announced that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction failed to reach an agreement on a deficit reduction plan: “I am disappointed in the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction missed opportunity to cut $1.2 trillion in government spending. Not only does this cause automatic spending cuts across the board without Congressional input, but it also creates a wave of uncertainty in the global markets and economy. The committee’s failure to meet the mandate in spending cuts is unacceptable. After months of negotiations, both sides of the aisle proposed their plans, but two central issues blocked the path to fiscal solvency: how to increase revenues and decrease entitlement spending. Americans and the nation need Congress to tackle the excessive spending in government. As a centrist Member in Congress and fiscal conservative, I know we can work together to find a bipartisan, bicameral solution to the national debt that now hovers at $15 trillion. After today’s deadline miss, cuts will still be made across the board. While Social Security, Medicaid and other programs for the disadvantaged are protected, military and defense spending will be reduced. Nearly $492 billion will be cut over the next decade from the military budget. There will also be a 2 percent cut in Medicare, not including payments to beneficiaries and a 7.8 percent cut in domestic programs. I am hopeful that in the next 13 months, Congress will take a hard look at the automatic cuts that are set to take place and work to replace them with smarter cuts in government spending that both sides agree on. I strongly believe that lawmakers must take steps towards easing the partisan divide that fuels a dysfunctional government and the growing U.S. debt. With or without a deal – America’s debt challenge remains the same. The nation needs bipartisan, immediate action and real-time solutions to ease global markets and strengthen economic recovery.”
11.18.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for a Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution, also known as H.J. Res 2. The constitutional amendment required the U.S. government to balance its budget each year, preventing increased deficits and decreasing the expansion of the national debt. Congressman Cuellar cosponsored this constitutional amendment earlier this year. The congressman also authored his own version of a constitutional amendment, H.J. Res 10, which includes provisions that protect Social Security. “A balanced budget amendment is a common-sense tool to restructure the way government spends taxpayer dollars. As the U.S. debt exceeds $15 trillion and each American’s share of the national debt equals $48,000, more than some annual salaries, this amendment gives a boundary to government spending with responsible, fiscal restraints.” said Congressman Cuellar. “Like so many American families that are finding ways to control their budgets, Congress needs to follow their example and make tough decisions, instead of spending on autopilot.” H.J. Res 2 required Congress to produce a balanced budget every fiscal year and the President to submit a budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress that is balanced or that produces a surplus. It allowed Congress to waive the measure's provisions for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war is in effect, or any year in which the United States is engaged in a military conflict that causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security and is so declared by a joint resolution of Congress. Unlike some other constitutional amendment proposals, it would not cap total federal spending or require supermajority votes to raise taxes. Constitutional amendments require a two-thirds majority vote of each chamber in order to be submitted to the states for ratification. “The first bill I introduced this year was a balanced budget amendment, which included producing a balanced budget every fiscal year and protection to Social Security. It was endorsed by the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, which has also fought for a balanced budget adoption,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Currently, 49 states require a balanced budget – it’s time for the federal government to follow suit and bring our fiscal house in order.” The Budget Control Act, now public law, mandates Congress to vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment no later than December 31st. The Constitution requires a two-thirds majority vote of each House to propose an amendment to the Constitution, and approval by three-fourths of the states is required for ratification. The House last voted on a balanced-budget amendment in 1995, successfully reaching the required two-thirds vote threshold for adoption in the House of Representatives. The amendment failed by one vote to reach the required two-thirds threshold in the Senate. The Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution voted on today failed to pass the House by a vote of 261 to 165. The bill required a two-thirds vote, which is 290 votes, to pass the House.
11.16.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar hosted a video conference earlier today with interested parties in the district to provide information from federal agencies and foundations on the grant application process. Over fourteen cities participated either via telephone or on video conference in one of Congressman Cuellar’s offices in San Antonio and Laredo. The conference was focused on Parks and Recreation grants and had six different participants: USDA Rural Development, General Services Administration Office of Personal Property Management, Department of Interior (National Park Service), Tony Hawk Foundation, U.S. Soccer Foundation and Corporation for National & Community Service. “Those interested in receiving federal dollars should have information on the grant and loan application process readily available,” Congressman Cuellar said. “With the advancements in technology, a city or school district does not have to make a costly trip to Washington D.C. to speak with those in charge of the distribution of funds. I will continue to connect those in my district to decision makers in hopes of securing more funds for South Texas.” Cities, counties and school districts across the 28th District of Texas in attendance received packets of information on requirements for grant/loan applications as well as best practice recommendations.
11.16.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar presented a summary of a U.S. Coast Guard threat assessment of the Rio Grande border this week during a Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security hearing. The assessment, in its entirety titled Rio Grande Mission Requirements Analysis – 2011 Report to Congress, concluded that the Rio Grande border-area has low-to-moderate threat levels based on the Coast Guard’s four-point scale. “The Coast Guard’s analysis provides concrete, factual information that indicates that our communities north of the Rio Grande border are safe,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We must continue working with law enforcement agencies at every level of government to make sure that our communities continue to enjoy these safety levels and at the same time, ensure that our men and women in law enforcement are trained and equipped to continue doing the invaluable work they do to keep our borders safe.” “I commend the Coast Guard for working diligently to complete this assessment and for the invaluable service they provide to our country,” said Congressman Cuellar. The congressman had authored a provision in the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010, now public law, that directed the Coast Guard to prepare a mission requirement analysis for the navigable portions of the Rio Grande. The Coast Guard’s four-point scale used in the study ranges from “low, moderate, significant and high.” The assessment concluded that Mexican Drug Trafficking Organizations present a moderate threat of violence to persons on the U.S.-side of the border. It also concluded that there is a low Search and Rescue case load and that there is a relatively low level of migrant activity along the Rio Grande border area. Based on these results, the Guard determined that the current use of it’s assets and personnel that are already operating along the Rio Grande is sufficient.
11.14.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) praised the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) partners for reaching the outlines of an agreement after nine rounds of productive negotiations this past weekend. Two years after the Administration’s first announcement to participate in the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations, the agreement reflects a modernized and ambitious outline that parallels to American goals and priorities – generate high-quality jobs, while supporting healthy international relations. The Trans-Pacific Partnership framework agreement increases American exports and supports domestic jobs by addressing new trade issues, including comprehensive market access, cross-cutting trade, and full regional agreement. “Today’s agreement is a win-win for the nation and TPP partners,” said Congressman Cuellar. “When we open the doors to trade we not only help our own economy boost U.S. job creation, but we are also increasing domestic exports to some of the world’s robust economies for U.S. manufactured goods, agricultural products, and services suppliers. I commend the Trans Pacific Partnership for their progress and for ensuring that these negotiations reached a successful conclusion.” The TPP is an Asia-Pacific regional trade agreement that the United States is negotiating with Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam. The agreement will strengthen multi-lateral trade relations within these countries, and it includes provisions that addresses trade sectors including textiles, agriculture and industrial goods. The agreements are also designed to allow and encourage small and medium-sized businesses to participate in international trade. “Even with the passage of the 21st century trade deals with Panama, Colombia and South Korea, the nation must continue to push through pro-trade policy that supports American jobs and makes the United States an export powerhouse,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Now more than ever, our mutual global competitiveness resides on our ability to receive and exchange information and goods. I am pleased with the TPP negotiators’ steady progress for meeting collectively to discuss access to each other’s markets.” According to the United States Trade Representative, as a group, TPP countries are the fourth largest goods export market of the United States and our fourth largest services export market. In 2010, the United States exported $775 billion equaling 61 percent of total American goods to the world. U.S. small and medium-sized businesses exported $171 billion to Asia-Pacific in 2009. The next action for the leaders of the nine TPP countries is to meet in early December and schedule additional negotiating rounds.
10.25.2011	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Michael McCaul (TX-10), and Blake Farenthold (TX-27) announced a second unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) will be delivered Wednesday to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi to help patrol and secure the U.S.-Mexico border. The UAV was secured as part of the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Act. The second Predator UAV is equipped with an electro-optical/infrared sensor system that vastly improves the operational effectiveness in CBP missions and is a UAV with synthetic aperture radar suitable for flights in darkness and inclement weather. “I thank my colleagues Congressmen Michael McCaul and Blake Farenthold for their work in bringing a second UAV to patrol the Texas-Mexico border and Gulf of Mexico as we work to interdict drugs, human smuggling and gun trafficking,” Congressman Cuellar said. “After more than two years of diligent work in the House Homeland Security Committee, numerous meetings and assessments of the southern border with the Department of Homeland Security and other federal agencies, we will have our second UAV patrolling our Texas skies. This will bring a better coordinated effort to provide real-time information and intelligence to our federal law enforcement agencies.” During a House Homeland Security Hearing in July, Maj. Gen. Michael Kostelnik, who oversees U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s UAV Program, confirmed to Congressmen Cuellar and McCaul that a second UAV would be based in Texas at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi. “That will give us six aircraft on the Southwest border and because of the ops concept and the way we fly them on any given day there could be three or more aircraft in Texas. And they’re routinely now flying nightly not only in the Rio Grande Valley but up through Laredo and up to El Paso,” said Maj. Gen. Kostelnik said during the July hearing. The UAV that will be delivered to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi is one of two UAV systems that were on order as part of the H.R. 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill. "The technology piece is the missing piece right now, and that’s what’s needed to fill the gap," said Congressman McCaul, who chairs the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee. "Everyone talks about we need to secure the border. Well how do you do that? You fill in the missing piece and that’s the technology piece." Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The first UAV in Texas UAV has been assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas and Mexico share 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370-mile boundary. "I am thrilled that additional resources have been made available to secure our southern borders. UAVs are a powerful force multiplier that will help protect America. We must continue to stop the illegal flow of guns, money and people across our borders," Congressman Farenthold said. When looking for a location to place the UAVs, Customs and Border Protection chose Naval Air Station Corpus Christi as a location for its fourth UAS Operations Center because it allows for the greatest support of the Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Strategic Plan, whose primary goal is to secure the Gulf of Mexico and shared border between Texas and Mexico. The UAV currently stationed at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, a Guardian Maritime Variant delivered February 2010, carries unique technology used for maritime haze filtration. In addition, it carries the same surveillance technology as used over land in a Predator-B.
10.12.2011	Click here to watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on the Free Trade Agreements Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), founder and Chair of the Pro-Trade Caucus, voted for passage of the Free Trade Agreements with Panama, Colombia and South Korea. The three bills passed the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday evening. “Our country has been handed a good deal today. The Free Trade Agreements with Panama, Colombia and South Korea are not only beneficial for U.S. companies and our international relations, but they will also create American jobs to help rehabilitate our country’s economy at a time most needed,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am pleased with the highly bipartisan agreements that will advance international trade, keep the U.S. competitive, and create a quarter of a million U.S. jobs.” President Obama formally submitted the three Free Trade Agreements to Congress on October 3, 2011. The trade agreements will improve and jolt our export market, making it easier for U.S. businesses to sell American goods to Panama, Colombia and South Korea. The deals have economic significance at home and abroad: it is estimated the trade deals could increase U.S. exports by $13 billion annually, reduce tariffs, and strengthens foreign relations with key strategic partners. “As the Chairman of the Pro-trade Caucus and representing a trade-centric district in South Texas, I strongly supported the passage of the trade agreements,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Laredo, Texas, my hometown, is home to the nation’s largest inland trade post and the 6th largest trade port. These Free Trade Agreements will have a trickle effect in creating jobs in the 28th District of Texas and the rest of the state of Texas. By leveling the playing field with 21st century trade deals, we increase American exports abroad and spur domestic job creation.” These agreements have gained wide bipartisan support in Congress and amongst organizations, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Texas Instruments, and the American Farm Bureau Association. Today, trade plays a vital role in the employment market by supporting 50 million American jobs, according to the U.S. Department of Treasury. Click here to watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on the Free Trade Agreements Background: The Free Trade Agreements would decrease the number of tariffs and duties, ease barriers for services and launch new labor environmental enforcement standards. H.R. 3078, U.S. - Colombia Free Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (CFTA) More than 80 percent of American industrial exports will instantly become duty-free – this includes nearly all goods in farming and construction equipment, aircraft and parts, auto parts, and information technology equipment. Any industrial tariffs that do remain will be phased out over the next decade, leading to a major jump in American exports. Over 50 percent of American agricultural exports will instantly become duty-free. Nearly all tariffs that remain will be removed within 15 years. The U.S. Colombia Free Trade Agreement would expand exports by more than $1.1 billion with the tariff reductions, according to the International Trade Commission. Without the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, the U.S. cotton exporters to Colombia will have unnecessarily paid over $14 million in tariffs. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 262-162. H.R. 3079, the U.S. - Panama Free Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (PFTA) The Panama Agreement will lead to a significant boost in trade between the U.S. and Panama, which is one of the quickest growing economies in Latin America. It will provide support for thousands of U.S. jobs. Panama holds a unique strategic location as a primary shipping route, which only adds to the importance of the agreement. Roughly two-thirds of the Panama Canal’s yearly shipments are either heading toward or coming from ports in the United States. This agreement provides the U.S. with new access to Panama’s $21 billion services market, which includes important sectors like financial, telecommunications, distribution, computer, energy, express delivery, environmental and professional services. The U.S. Trade Representative reports that over 87 percent of U.S. exports of consumer and industrial products to Panama will become duty-free immediately, with remaining tariffs phased out over ten years. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 300-129. H.R. 3080, the U.S. – South Korea Free Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (KORUS FTA) Korea has the world’s 12th largest economy. The South Korea Agreement will raise U.S. exports by over $10 billion and will support 70,000 American jobs. The South Korea Agreement will remove tariffs on more than 95 percent of industrial and consumer products over five years, and it contains critical steps for expanding the market access for American automobile companies and auto workers. Additionally, it provides more chances for American farmers, ranchers and food processors to export their goods to South Korea’s 49 million consumers by decreasing tariffs on U.S. exports to South Korea and putting a plan in place to deal with other barriers to American exports. The U.S. International Trade Commission estimates passage of the U.S.-South Korea Free Trade Agreement would increase U.S. exports by over $10 billion and create 70,000 American jobs. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. exports to Korea would grow by more than one-third. This bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 278-151.
10.07.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with City of Cotulla Mayor Joe R. Lozano announced $1,527,000 in federal funds from the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development for the City of Cotulla. The funds will be used to improve and upgrade 2.1 miles of streets throughout the city after it has experienced a higher amount of vehicular traffic following the boom of oil and gas production in the region. “The federal funds made available today to the City of Cotulla will provide the much needed infrastructure for the city’s streets that have seen busy traffic after the local boom of oil and gas production, which is creating jobs in the region,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank USDA State Director Paco Valentin for his work in helping the City of Cotulla secure this grant, as well as City of Cotulla Mayor, Joe R. Lozano. I stand ready to work with all to bring additional resources to the area which will create economic opportunities.” In the past two years, the City of Cotulla has experienced a high increase in vehicular traffic. This increase is due to the recent oil and gas boom which has brought more people to the area. In 2009, the City of Cotulla had a population of 3,614, however, recent figures provided by the La Salle Chamber of Commerce estimate the City of Cotulla’s population at more than 7,000. “Today’s funding announcements represent the diversity of assistance USDA Rural Development can provide to communities to improve infrastructure and public services in rural Texas,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “From street improvements in Cotulla to a new municipal building in Jourdanton, Rural Development is pleased to assist these recipients by providing the needed funding to their communities.”
10.07.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with the City of Jourdanton Mayor Larry B. Pryor announced $3,639,927 in federal funds for the city. The funds will be used for the construction of a municipal building that will house vital city services in one location and for the construction of solar panels. “The federal funds for the City of Jourdanton will allow for the expansion of the Municipal Building and when completed, will house the police department, municipal court, additional court room space and the clerk’s office,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Making government more efficient through streamlining is always a goal of mine. Bringing together a number of local entities will help deliver better services to the residents of the City of Jourdanton. I thank USDA State Director Paco Valentin in helping secure these federal funds as well as City of Jourdanton Mayor Larry B. Pryor. Together we can do more for the better good of South Texans.” The first award in the amount of $3,160,000 is made available by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development and will be used to construct a 13,026 square foot municipal building in Jourdanton. The new municipal building will combine the two existing city facilities. The new building will be compliant with the American with Disabilities Act and will house the city hall, police department, municipal court judge, available court room space and the clerk’s office. “I thank Congressman Cuellar for his outstanding leadership in helping us secure these federal funds that will be used well by the City of Jourdanton as we expand our municipal building to centralize important city services at one location,” City of Jourdanton Mayor Larry B. Pryor said. “The funds come at the right time for the city and we look forward, in the near future, to hosting Congressman Cuellar and company for the grand opening of the municipal building.” The second grant, for $479,927 is made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and will be used for the construction of solar panels. The City of Jourdanton has a population of 3,732. “Today’s funding announcements represent the diversity of assistance USDA Rural Development can provide to communities to improve infrastructure and public services in rural Texas,” said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. “From street improvements in Cotulla to a new municipal building in Jourdanton, Rural Development is pleased to assist these recipients by providing the needed funding to their communities.”
10.03.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that the U.S. Senate confirmed lawyer Marina Garcia Marmolejo to a federal judgeship in the U.S. Southern Judicial District of Texas. The Senate approved confirmation today by a voice vote. “Marina Garcia Marmolejo’s confirmation to the U.S. Southern Judicial District is great news for South Texas and I know she will bring a wealth of experience and expertise to a district court that is currently facing the challenges of a docket backlog,” said Cuellar. “I am pleased that she has been appointed to the federal court in Laredo, and I congratulate her not only for her confirmation, but for her exemplary career as an attorney and her service to the community.” “I thank Senators John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchinson for supporting Marina’s confirmation in the U.S. Senate,” said Cuellar. “With this confirmation we move one step closer to filling all federal judgeships in Texas.” Congressman Cuellar, along with members of the Texas congressional delegation, recommended Garcia Marmolejo for nomination to the President. This is the second Laredo federal court judge recommendation submitted by Congressman Cuellar that has been approved for nomination. Both have been confirmed by the Senate this year. Garcia Marmolejo graduated from St. Mary’s School of Law in 1996 and soon after was admitted to practice law by the State Bar of Texas. She served as an Assistant United States Attorney in Laredo before working for a law firm in San Antonio.
10.03.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) issued the following statement after the Administration sent to Congress pending Free Trade Agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama: “I am encouraged by the Administration’s submission of the pending Free Trade Agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama to Congress. Now is the time for Congress to take action and pass the delayed trade pacts to increase American exports and spur domestic job creation. “I support implementing three important free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama in order to advance our economic opportunities. To pass these and other future trade agreements, both sides of the aisle must come together and forge a consensus putting the American economy first. That’s why I’ll continue to work through the bi-partisan Pro-Trade Caucus to advance an international trade policy that keeps America competitive. By leveling the playing field with 21st Century trade deals, we increase American exports abroad and spur job creation here at home. “The trade agreements would support more than 250,000 jobs in the United States in industries like manufacturing, services and agriculture. These pending free trade agreements would also boost U.S. exports by $13 billion annually, according to reports. In the next couple of years, about 87 percent of global growth will take place outside the United States. In order for the United States to grow, we must export and work with our allies domestically and internationally to become emerged in the thriving global market. The United States must not abandon the trade deals and allow other foreign countries to forge ahead. I support passing these pending free trade agreements to deter falling behind in the world, prevent losing more jobs and dragging the nation’s economic recovery. “I applaud the Administration’s and Congress’ bipartisan work to put these deals on the fast track to passage. I will work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives, the Senate and with the Administration to move these trade agreements forward and see their enactment into law. There’s a growing global market waiting for the U.S. to grab a hold. And there’s no time, nor good reason, to wait any longer.”
09.29.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with Dr. Juan Maldonado, President of Laredo Community College, announced a grant totaling $4,350,000 to fund science, technology, engineering and math initiatives at the community college. “With the rising number of job opportunities in the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, this grant allows students in our community to remain competitive individuals as they prepare for the job market,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I applaud the efforts of Laredo Community College, an educational institution where I earned my associates degree, and will continue to advocate for educational priorities in the 28th District of Texas.” The grant will provide academic support through four components. First, it will provide support in the form stipends for 200 high school students taking classes in the STEM fields. Second, it will provide support to students in the form of academic and peer-to-peer advising, a first-year college experience, degree audits and transfer articulation tools to simplify the transfer of credits process. Third, funding will allow for the creation of a transfer program with Texas A&M Kingsville’s College of Engineering including teleconference courses to speed up transfer, connection and completion of STEM degrees. Fourth, the grant will aid in collecting and analyzing data of the program participants to properly evaluate the outcomes. “Laredo Community College is elated to be the recipient of the STEM Articulation grant. The key to the economic vitality of our great nation rests on our ability to prepare a well qualified workforce in the areas of science, technology, engineering and mathematics,” said LCC President Dr. Juan Maldonado. “The focus of this grant in collaboration with Texas A&M at Kingsville combines in the engineering degree the elements so vital for our nation’s economic future. This grant will assist in making our nation’s vision a reality.” “In order to maximize the opportunities on the horizon for its students and the community, Laredo Community College recognizes the multitude of hurdles and has planned a combination of best practices to help students be successful in all fields, but especially in STEM,” said Dr. Nora Garza, Vice President for Resource Development at LCC. “The STEM Articulation grant will offer academic support and enhancement, student support in the form of academic advising, a Model Transfer program to provide students with a seamless transfer to Texas A&M-Kingsville’s College of Engineering and other universities, and the use of data to document student outcomes’ improvement.”
09.28.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) visited Zapata County today to announce two grants totaling $623,655 for the county and for the Zapata County Economic Development Center. The congressman joined Zapata County Judge Joseph Rathmell, Zapata County Economic Development Center President Peggy Umphres, distinguished county officials and community leaders at the county courthouse at a press conference to announce the federal grants. “At a time when our country is going through trying economic times, it is refreshing to have the opportunity to visit Zapata to announce not one, but two grants designed to fund initiatives that will improve the quality of life and economic outlook of this warm, vibrant community,” said Cuellar. “This accomplishment is the direct result of hard work, dedication, and above all, teamwork. I congratulate Judge Joseph Rathmell and Peggy Umphres, as well as their dedicated staff, for receiving these grants and thank them for their diligent efforts to make Zapata and South Texas a remarkable place to live and visit.” The first grant, for $323,655, is awarded to Zapata County by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The funds will be administered by the Texas Department of Rural Affairs and the program will provide first-time sewer service to seven homes in Flores II subdivision in Zapata County. The second grant, for $300,000, is awarded to the Zapata County Economic Development Center, Inc. by the Economic Development Administration (EDA). The funds will allow the EDC to create a Geographic Information System database and conduct a market analysis and feasibility study to evaluate economic development activities along U.S. Highway 83 corridor. The EDA project will enhance Zapata County’s capability to foster economic development, attract domestic and international business and become globally competitive.
09.28.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with Dr. Ray Keck, President of Texas A&M International University, announced five grants totaling $49,900,012 at TAMIU’s University Success Center. “As a graduate of Texas A&M International University, I know first-hand the dedication the university has in ensuring that every graduate is a successful and contributing member of our society,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As an advocate of higher education, I applaud TAMIU in securing the federal funds and know that the programs and initiatives to be funded will have a lasting impact on students and our community.” The first grant, in the amount of $42,974,903 aid the GEAR UP program, which will work with 7th graders from 19 school districts for seven years with a primary goal of increasing high school graduation rates as well as the number of students entering postsecondary education. The 19 school districts are: Laredo ISD, United ISD, Webb Consolidated ISD, Zapata County ISD, Jim Hogg County ISD, Benavides ISD, Freer ISD, San Diego ISD, Alice ISD, Orange Grove ISD, Ben/Bolt Palito Blanco ISD, Premont ISD, Cotulla ISD, Dilley ISD, Pearsall ISD, Crystal City ISD, La Pryor ISD, Carrizo Springs CIDS and Eagle Pass ISD. It is estimated that the 7th grade cohort will consist of nearly 8,000 students and will graduate in spring 2017. The second grant, in the amount of $4,349,955 will aid in raising the number of students in earning Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics degrees (STEM). To achieve this goal, TAMIU will implement a number of activities and initiatives including: tutoring, mentoring, writing classes, expanding research experiences, providing internships and financial assistance. The activities and services to be provided are divided into outreach, retention and securing graduations of target students (Hispanic and/or low income). It is projected that 6500 local students will be reached through the program. The third grant, in the amount of $2,333,768 from the Department of Education will aid TAMIU’S High School Equivalency Program (HEP). Specifically, the target students are those who are personally engaged or have parents that are engaged in migrant farm work. Achieving a secondary school diploma and enrolling in postsecondary education and/or entering the work force are the main goals of the program. Since its inception in 2006, 464 students have participated in the program. “With the help of scholarships such as the ones that will be afforded to students through these programs, I was able to earn my advanced degrees,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The opportunities these grants will provide help level the playing field so that no matter the economic or ethnic background, all students are given the chance to further their education and fill in demand jobs, in turn contributing to our recovering economy.” The fourth grant in the amount of $136,386 from the Health Resources and Service Administration (HRSA) will fund scholarships and traineeships for nursing students who are economically disadvantaged and come from underrepresented racial or ethnic minority groups. The fifth grant in the amount of $105,000 from the National Science Foundation will allow the Biology Department at TAMIU, which has grown over 30 percent in the past two years, to purchase state of the art research equipment. “From those working towards a high school degree or those pursuing careers in STEM fields or nursing leadership and service, to those researching the science and technology of the future, these far-ranging awards help all to imagine their possibilities at TAMIU,” said Dr. Ray Keck, President of TAMIU.
09.22.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced $1,180,000 in federal funds he helped secure for the City of Seguin from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). The funds will support the construction of a one million gallon elevated water storage tank which will address expansion and growth at Continental Automotive Systems, which is expected to increase by 40 percent and will spur new industrial and commercial development in the region. “I am constantly looking for ways to accomplish Congress’ most important task: creating jobs. These funds will help the City of Seguin attract business and economic opportunities with the expansion of local companies in the area,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In addition to creating 500 new jobs through industrial and commercial development, 600 jobs are projected to be retained and $18 million in private investments will be leveraged.” The new system will replace an existing tank to a water site not yet determined. With the new tank capacity, the City of Seguin will meet increased water demand that has expanded due to new housing development sites. “We are very pleased about receiving this grant for the water tower, it will enhance the water supply in that area which in turn will be of great benefit on an economic development project we are working with several factories,” said Betty Matthies, mayor of the City of Seguin. “It will also help to serve any type of new residential development, homes, apartments and more businesses in the area. There is a great need for it and we are very pleased to be the recipient of this grant.” The existing tank, constructed in 1982, is no longer effective in meeting the demands of residents. Projected completion of the new water site project is August 2013 and will have a lifespan of at least 50 years. "These EDA-funded projects will help bring jobs and economic growth to the City of Seguin by providing the critical infrastructure needed to advance the diversity and resiliency of the regional economy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I stand ready to work with officials of the City of Seguin and Guadalupe County as we work together to bring more business opportunities to the region. I thank Mayor Betty Matthies, Terry Trevino, executive director of economic development for the City of Seguin, and Tim Neely, the assistant director of economic development for the City of Seguin, for their relentless efforts in securing these funds.”
09.21.2011	Today, the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act of 2011, H.R. 915, named after ICE Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) Special Agent Jaime Zapata, was voted out of the House Homeland Security Committee and is expected to be considered by the full U.S. House of Representatives. The bill, which was voted out of the full committee with bipartisan support, would enhance border security and reduce security threats by authorizing and appropriating funds for law enforcement units on the border. “Our country lost ICE Special Agent Jaime Zapata in the line of duty, and out of respect for his service to America, I found it proper and fitting to file legislation that would enhance border security operations on our borders and name it after an American hero—Jaime Zapata,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This bill was voted out of the full committee today and is one step closer to becoming federal law. Through this bill, not only would we honor the work of ICE Special Agent Zapata, but we would also provide the needed resources and funds to secure our communities.” In March 2009, the Administration launched the Southwest Border Initiative in response to a prominent surge in southern border violence associated with Mexican drug cartels and transnational criminal organizations. Under this initiative, ICE has doubled the personnel assigned to BESTs. Currently, there are 22 BESTs with locations around the U.S. and in Mexico. BESTs are comprised of federal, state, local, and foreign law enforcement personnel from counterparts such as the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Transportation and Security Administration, National Guard, U.S. Secret Service, and U.S. Attorney’s Offices. “I will continue my best efforts to move this bill through the legislative process in honor of ICE Special Agent Zapata’s commitment, work and sacrifice while serving the United States of America as a federal agent,” Cuellar said. In FY 2010, ICE-led BESTs made 1,710 criminal arrests and 959 administrative arrests, which resulted in 1,107 indictments and 858 convictions. Thus far in FY 2011, ICE-led BESTs have made 1,887 criminal arrests and 997 administrative arrests that have resulted in 910 indictments and 853 convictions. “Border security continues to be a major issue for me and I will continue to do all I can through my committee assignment on the House Homeland Security Committee as well as through my work with the various federal law enforcement agencies to provide families and those living on the border peace of mind in knowing that the federal government is doing its part in ensuring their safety,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I also thank Congressman King, Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Congressman Thompson, Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee, for their work in moving this bill forward.” The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), would codify BESTs and give Congress the ability to oversee authorization and appropriation of funds for the units, which previously was under the scope of the Department of Homeland Security. “The BEST teams are an integral part of our strategy to stop the southbound flow of cash and weapons that fund and arm the cartels. I can't think of a more fitting way to honor Agent Zapata than to add his name to our efforts to secure the border,” Congressman McCaul said. The first BEST team was based in Laredo. Immigration and Customs Enforcement establishes BEST locations based on which areas are significantly impacted by border threats, the availability of law enforcement to participate, and the extent to which the threats are harmfully impacting the area. The Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement will annually report on the effectiveness of BESTs as measured by crime statistics, to include violent deaths, incidents of violence, and drug related arrests. Background: In July 2005, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, in partnership with Customs and Border Protection, as well as other federal, state, local and foreign law enforcement officials expanded its ongoing Border Crimes Initiative by creating a multi-agency initiative called Operation Blackjack (predecessor to the BEST), to address the increased violence along the southwest border with Mexico. In 2006, the Department of Homeland Security formally adopted the BEST initiative as a Department of Homeland Security task force in order to leverage federal, state, local, tribal and foreign law enforcement and intelligence resources in an effort to identify, disrupt, and dismantle organizations that seek to exploit vulnerabilities along the U.S. borders and threaten the overall safety and security of the American public. The BEST Act of 2011 has been voted out of the House Committee on Homeland Security, which Congressman Cuellar is a member of. It now heads for a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives. He also serves as the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, which has direct jurisdiction over border security. On February 15, 2011, ICE Special Agents Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila were ambushed by members of Mexican drug cartels in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. The two ICE agents were traveling between Mexico City and Monterrey. Special Agent Zapata succumbed to his injuries. He lived on the southwest border his entire life. Special Agent Avila was shot and has now recovered.
09.20.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced a total of $1.5 million in grants for Starr County from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The first grant, for $1,000,000, from the 2008 Supplemental Disaster Recovery Fund Grant, will be used to reconstruct roads in the county that were damaged by Hurricane Dolly. Repairs and constructions will take place at eight locations and will benefit 1,323 residents. The funding for this program is made available through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. “When Hurricane Dolly devastated South Texas in 2008, our infrastructure suffered great damage from torrential rains and flooding,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am thankful to Starr County Judge Eloy Vera and his dedicated team for their vision and tenacity in securing these funds and look forward to working with them on securing additional resources for South Texas.” In fiscal year 2008, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development awarded more than $6.1 billion to assist recovery for 2008 disasters, including Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly. The second grant, for $500,000, will provide sewer access and services for the first time to colonia residents in Mi Ranchito and La Escondida. The funding for this program is made available through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and will be administered by the Texas Department of Rural Affairs. “Equally important to future infrastructure growth, I am pleased to announce funding for residents of Mi Ranchito and La Escondida who will now have access, for the first time, to sewage services in an area that has been neglected for too long. I stand with them as we work together to bring better services and living conditions to all South Texans.” The scope of this program is to improve the quality of life for Texans living in colonias and this project will primarily benefit low income communities.
09.19.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced a grant for $274,000 in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN) Inc. The funding will help continue to support the Futuros Saludables Peer-to-Peer Recovery Program in Webb, County, which is designed to provide support services for adolescents and adults dealing with substance abuse. The program will help 45 adolescents and 70 adults. Since 2007, Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN) Inc. has received $1,674,000 for their Futuros Saludables Peer-to-Peer Recovery Program. “We must strive to provide those who are battling substance abuse in South Texas every opportunity to recover and become an integral part of society,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Through this initiative, which is being undertaken through the great leadership and work of S.C.A.N., we can help our at-risk youth and adults in overcoming substance abuse and addictions.” The Peer-to-Peer Recovery Program will continue to provide services that are peer-designed, peer-led, and focus on the importance of leadership, development, the principal of self-care and cultural diversity for South Texans who are struggling with addiction or substance abuse problems. “The more we invest in our community by educating and providing support to them, the better off we all are,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I thank S.C.A.N. for their work on this notable cause and remain committed to supporting this initiative.”
09.16.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with Mayor Raul G. Salinas and City Manager Carlos Villarreal, announced $7,632,019 for the Laredo International Airport. The amount is combined from three grants awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration. “The substantial amount of federal dollars awarded to the Laredo International Airport proves that it is a vital transportation site for the state and country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I congratulate the City of Laredo for this well-deserved award and I thank Mayor Salinas and City Manager Villarreal for their diligent efforts in securing these funds as we work together to attract more cargo and visitors to South Texas.” The first grant, awarded in the amount of $6,347,019, will aid in rehabilitation of the apron, realignment of the taxiway Foxtrot and upgrade the Engineered Materials Arresting System (EMAS). The improvements to the EMAS helps to slow an aircraft to a safe stop in the event of an overrun and also assist the airport in meeting design standards. “Thanks to Congressman Cuellar and the continued hard work of our Laredo International Airport staff, the City of Laredo continues to receive the federal dollars it needs to update and improve our airport so that it remains competitive, safe and a good neighbor in our community,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “The combined $7.6 million in grants will increase safety for not only the airplanes and passengers arriving at the airport, but also, for the residents and buildings around the facility.” The second grant, in the amount of $1,000,000 provides noise mitigation measures to be taken as outlined in the airport’s Noise Compatibility Plan, with the goal of reducing aircraft noise for residents in communities near and around the airport. Approximately 588 residents are predicted to experience noise reduction due to the technological advancements. The third grant, in the amount of $285,000 will allow the airport to conduct a noise study to identify existing and future noise contours. Since 2009, the Laredo International Airport has received $44.9 million in federal funds for improvements.
09.14.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that a provision included in the Affordable Care Act created a significant increase in the number of 18-24 year olds with health insurance in the United States over the past year, according to a report released by the Census Bureau. Throughout the nation, hundreds of thousands of young adults are reaping the benefits of the healthcare reform law – this provision allows them to remain on their parents’ health insurance plan up to 26 years of age. The Census Bureau report shows that the percentage of young adults with health insurance increased from 70.7 percent in 2009 to 72.8 percent in 2010. Congressman Cuellar attributes the increase to the Affordable Care Act, which boosted this age group’s accessibility to health care coverage. This provision went into effect on September 23, 2010. “The Affordable Care Act continues to benefit Americans, especially young adults, who can now be secure in knowing that they will not be burdened with excessive healthcare costs should they get sick,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It is reassuring that as the youth enter college or start their first job, they will not have to worry about being uninsured. As more provisions of the law go into effect and more Americans seek to obtain health insurance, this law will continue to offer meaningful and positive impacts.” Excerpts of the report released by the Census Bureau are below: The Census Bureau released data on health insurance coverage and the uninsured for 2010 on September 13, 2011. Although there are four major government surveys that produce estimates of health insurance coverage, the Current Population Survey is the most widely cited and receives national media attention. Young adults are the age group least likely to have health insurance. However, 18-24 year olds were the only age group to experience a significant increase in the percentage with health insurance over the past year, from 70.7% in 2009 to 72.8% in 2010. This is a two percentage point increase in the share of adults 18-24 with coverage and represents 500,000 more young adults with health insurance. The Affordable Care Act allows children to remain on their parents’ plans until age 26, and this policy took effect for insurance plan renewals beginning on September 23, 2010. Given that the fraction with health coverage was stable or decreasing in other groups, the two percentage point increase in share with health coverage among 18-24 year olds almost certainly reflects the effects of the extension of dependent coverage to age 26. To view the full report released by the Census Bureau, click here.
09.14.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that B. L. Gray Junior High School in Mission, Texas, will receive the 2011 National Blue Ribbon award from the U.S. Department of Education. B. L. Gary Junior High School is one of 300 schools’ in the country to receive the award. A teacher and principal from the school will be invited to attend an official ceremony with Secretary of Education Arne Duncan from Nov. 14-15 in Washington, D.C. “Schools like the B. L. Gray Junior High School are providing an exemplary education to our students in the Rio Grande Valley,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I have seen first-hand the importance of earning and education—it opens many doors to the future. Today’s announcement of B. L. Gray Junior High School being a top school in the country is a clear reminder that we can achieve academic success if we are committed and determined to do so. I am proud of their achievements and look forward to their visit in November to Washington to receive the award from Secretary Duncan.” The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve or have made progress and helped close gaps in achievement, especially among disadvantaged and minority students. The program is part of an effort from the Department of Education to identify and disseminate knowledge about best school leadership and teaching practices. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors schools based on one of two criteria: 1. Schools whose students, regardless of backgrounds, are high performing. These are schools ranked among the state's highest performing schools as measured by their performance on state assessments or in the case of private schools, that score at the highest performance level on tests referenced by national norms in at least the most recent year tested; and 2. Schools with at least 40 percent of their students from disadvantaged backgrounds that improve student performance to high levels as measured by the school's performance on state assessments or nationally-normed tests.
09.13.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction officially rolled out the website for the committee: “Today, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, composed of a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives who are tasked for the next couple of months to cut the deficit by $1.5 trillion over the next decade, officially rolled out the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction website: www.deficitreduction.gov. This website contains videos of hearings, statements, a schedule of upcoming hearings and a section to submit your input and suggestions to the committee. It is the job of every American to look at innovative ways to reduce spending, while ensuring programs that are important to us, such as Medicare and Social Security, continue to provide for the American people. I encourage all to visit this website as it contains important and relevant information as lawmakers begin to iron out a viable plan to put our country on track to fiscal responsibility.”
09.13.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) supported the passage of a bipartisan bill that reforms and strengthens the charter school program. H.R. 2218, Empowering Parents through Quality Charter Schools Act, will reauthorize the federal Charter School Program and works to increase access and accountability to charter schools in South Texas. “Charter schools continue to provide high-quality and reliable education to many students across the country, especially students in the 28th District of Texas, who benefit greatly from this method of education that has proven effective and trustworthy,” Congressman Cuellar said. More specifically, the legislation includes provisions authorizing funding, not only for starting up new charter schools, but also for replicating and expanding high-quality charter schools. It ensures that charter schools provide increased access for underserved populations, including students with disabilities and limited English proficiency. Additionally, it allows the collaboration between public and charter schools by sharing innovative and productive practices to help improve academic achievement. “Some of our best learning models have come from charter schools in South Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This legislation allows for the replication of those models to be shared with other start-up and existing charter schools to better their education opportunities and experiences. We must offer a second to none education to our Texas children and this legislation places children as a top priority.” Currently, there are 5,200 charter schools across the nation serving 1.8 million students, including 463 charter campuses in Texas that serves nearly 120,000 students. As part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), this legislation embarks on a steady revamp of outdated provisions. The educational need of the nation is not only focused on revamping outdated law, but also on providing students the education and tools to go into the workforce as highly skilled, globally competitive individuals. This federal charter school program serves our schoolchildren in the 28th district and students nationwide to enhance student achievement in charter schools and be an effective part of our education system. H.R. 2218, Empowering Parents through Quality Charter Schools Act, passed the U.S. House of Representatives Tuesday by a bipartisan vote of 365-54. The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration. Background: H.R. 2218 is supported by the National Education Association, Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, National Association of Charter School Authorizers, and Texas Charter Schools Association. The federal Charter School Program is part of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). Under the current program, State Educational Agencies (SEAs) can apply for a Charter School Grant from the Department of Education. If they are awarded a grant, the SEA then runs a subgrant competition among charter school developers -- subgrants that are primarily used to start up new charter schools around the state. A charter school is a public school that operates with public funds but with less regulation than traditional public schools. Charter schools are established under the terms of a contract with an authorizing agency.
09.09.2011	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced today that the Administration has extended the temporary deployment of National Guard personnel along the Southwest border through December 31, 2011. Since their arrival at the end of last summer, thousands of National Guard Soldiers and Airmen have served alongside U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and Border Patrol agents to secure the border. Their efforts and assistance to CBP have not only yielded the seizure of thousands of pounds of drugs, but they have also strengthened the multi-layered approach to combat the smuggling of persons, illegal narcotics, and dangerous weapons along our border. The Department of Defense will cover the cost of the deployment. “This extension of deployment for the National Guard comes at an important time as we work together to secure the Southwest border through an increase in resources by the federal government, which provides support to law enforcement agencies on the border. We must continue our diligent efforts in ensuring the communities and cities on the U.S.-Mexico border are safe. I welcome the extension of the National Guard troops as a necessary step in continued efforts to strengthen the security of our border with Mexico,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This is a necessary step but we still need a long term commitment to a comprehensive strategy to secure the border. The National Guard troops are a temporary fix until we deploy more Border Patrol agents and integrate the manpower with technology,” said Congressman Michael McCaul.
09.08.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after the President spoke to a Joint Session of Congress on his plan for job creation in the United States: “I am encouraged that the President of the United States and Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle and Capitol came together tonight to acknowledge the U.S. must no longer allow nearly 14 million Americans to remain unemployed. It is not the American way and action must be taken now. I applaud the President for putting together a package, which provides tax cuts, construction of roads, bridges and schools. This is a step in the right direction. Once the unemployment rate, which teeters at 9.1 percent, begins to decrease, our economic gain will follow. More jobs will spur the economy forward with increased consumer spending, market confidence, and the ability to be globally competitive with a highly skilled workforce. “The President’s address tonight to Congress re-emphasizes our national priorities. We can all agree that we need more jobs, but the key is to work in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to set aside partisan politics that create a fog in our path to job creation. “While the President addressed Congress tonight on his jobs plan, I too have advocated for bipartisan compromises that tackle the nation’s pressing issues of unemployment and economic recovery. For example, I support implementing three important free trade agreements with Panama, Colombia, and Korea. According to the Administration, these pending trade agreements will support over 250,000 jobs in industries like manufacturing, services, and agriculture. That is a good start for increasing our international relations, while creating jobs domestically. I also believe that more jobs can be created when small businesses have access to capital from our community banks, on the condition that our community banks are lifted from the burdensome regulations that tie their hands from lending. Fewer regulations on our community banks will bring more flexibility and create jobs, from our small businesses to our local communities. “Further, extending the payroll tax credit will bring relief for employers who hire the unemployed. It creates incentives for employers and benefits to newly hired employees. Win, win. Additionally, during our August district work period, in which members of Congress spent time with their constituents at meetings and town halls, I, along with other Members of the Blue Dog Coalition, sent a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi asking them to bring Congress back into session to start working on these pressing issues, such as more jobs. “The ripple effects of job creation will create a tidal wave to recovery. It is unacceptable to have a stagnant unemployment rate, so now is the time to work together with Republicans and Democrats to find a compromise and real solutions for a jobs plan. I pledge to do all I can to bring more jobs for you – Congress needs to work to bring Americans back to work.”
09.01.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that starting today health insurers seeking to increase their rates by 10 percent or more must submit their request to state or federal reviewers to determine whether the increase is reasonable. This review program was created by the Affordable Care Act and will bring greater transparency, accountability, and, in many cases, lower costs for families and small business owners who struggle to afford coverage. In many states, federal agencies now have the authority to deny or reduce rate hikes found to be excessive. Insurers that insist on going ahead with double-digit rate increases are required to post their justifications on their website, and state and federal agencies will post them as well. “The American people, especially those living in the 28th District of Texas, for too long have had to deal with burdensome and expensive health insurance because companies have not been reviewed and regulated thoroughly in the past,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Today marks the beginning of a new era of reasonable health care insurance costs that our American families can afford.” Starting today, insurers proposing double digit increases will have to provide clear information that indicates what factors are causing proposed increases. Reviewers and experts in the field of health insurance will closely examine information about the underlying cost trends in health care to flag instances when insurance companies are unjustly raising costs. “As of today, consumers will no longer have to take the word of their insurance company when dealing with costs of health insurance,” Congressman Cuellar said. “American families and those that most need health insurance will have an independent expert reviewing their proposed rate increase—at all time.” Starting in mid-September, consumers in every state can go to www.HealthCare.gov to view easy-to-access, consumer-friendly disclosure information explaining proposed increases that are 10 percent or higher than last year’s rates. Consumers will see a summary of the key factors driving rate increases and an explanation provided by insurance companies for why the proposed increase is needed. Also, for the first time, consumers in every state will be given the ability to comment on large proposed rate increases. States continue to have the primary responsibility for reviewing insurance rates. Because many states have lacked the resources needed to perform strong rate review, the Affordable Care Act provides $250 million in Health Insurance Premium Review Grants to states over five years. These new resources will improve how states review proposed health insurance rate increases and hold insurance companies accountable for unjustified premium increases. For more information on rate review and today’s announcement, please visit: http://www.healthcare.gov/news/factsheets/ratereview09012011a.html For more information on significant state achievements with rate review, please visit: http://www.healthcare.gov/news/factsheets/ratereview09012011b.html
08.19.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today following the release of the Energy Advisory Board Natural Gas Subcommittee’s 90-day interim report: “Energy independence is a national security issue, which can only be achieved through an all of the above approach of domestic production. This 90-day report presents several recommendations, and I see this as an important step forward that will make domestic energy safer and more abundant. “Shale gas production has the potential to both lower costs for consumers in every day purchases, but also create jobs. I will continue my work in Congress to expand shale gas production by reducing regulatory hurdles while simultaneously increasing safety for not just those involved in production, but for all Americans. Increasing transparency of shale production is a much needed step, however we must not place overly burdensome regulations on business that will only serve to dissuade production. I look forward to policy that protects Americans and puts them to work.” Below is Energy Secretary Steven Chu’s statement on the report. I want to first commend the work of the Subcommittee, led by John Deutch, for producing a practical, thoughtful and insightful report. I know each member committed significant time and energy to this exercise, and it shows in the final product. As the President has said, natural gas will continue to play an important role in our nation’s energy portfolio, helping create jobs, stimulate the economy, and reduce our dependence on imported oil. But the President’s commitment to continuing to leverage this abundant domestic fuel source – and increasing energy independence, creating jobs, and building our 21st century clean energy economy – is built on our ability, working with industry, to improve the environmental performance of the processes that have allowed us to take full advantage of this important resource. What we can do now to increase safe and responsible production of natural gas is directly connected to our long-term ability to develop this fuel source. The report recommends measures to increase public disclosure and transparency and address concerns about air and water pollution. The report also recommends a range of tools for implementing these measures, including regulation, continuous improvement in best practices by industry, and ongoing research and development. I will be working closely with my colleagues in the Administration to review the recommendations and to chart a path for continued development of this vital energy resource in a safe manner.
08.16.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that the State of Texas will receive $46,553,879 for the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) to spur increased lending for small businesses and local entrepreneurs to create more private sector jobs. This initiative is a component of the Small Business Jobs Act, which Congressman Cuellar supported. It was signed into law on September 27, 2010. “Americans are rightly concerned with our current economic state. We need more jobs to reboot our economy and bring Americans back to work,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The State Small Business Credit Initiative provides support to lending programs to unlock credit. This funding will boost investments, aid small businesses and entrepreneurs to generate jobs and simultaneously propel the economy – a positive domino effect.” The U.S. Treasury allocated these funds to Texas under the SSBCI. The Texas Department of Agriculture will launch the Texas Small Business Venture Capital program and the Texas Loan Guarantee program with the $46.5 million. Treasury estimates that for every $1 in federal funding, it will generate a minimum of at least $10 in private lending. Background: The Small Business Jobs Act was the most significant piece of small business legislation in the past decade. It was signed into law on September 27, 2010, by the President. Part of the law included the SSBCI to fund $1.5 billion to strengthen state programs that lend to small manufacturers and businesses. This program is expected to spur $15 billion in lending to small businesses, participating states will use federal funds for programs that provide private loans to creditworthy small businesses and manufacturers that are not receiving the funds necessary to create jobs. The SSBCI allows states to build on already successful models including collateral support programs, Capital Access Programs (CAPs) and loan guarantee programs.
08.06.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after news over the weekend that the country’s credit rating was downgraded to an AA+: “I am deeply concerned of Standard and Poor’s credit rating downgrade of the United States. Friday evening, S&P analysis lowered the United States top-notch AAA credit rating to AA+, a first in U.S. history. “The rating agency downgrade reflects Washington’s instability – a handful of vocal extremists calling themselves the Tea Party hijacked the process for political purposes. As a result homeowners, student loan recipients and small businesses may pay higher interest rates through no fault of their own. The House Majority staged political theatrics that went hand-in-hand with economic uncertainty that created shock waves weakening the U.S. credit rating. “It won’t be easy to bring back the AAA rating that our country has held for 70 years. As we have seen from other countries across the world, it could take years. This is unacceptable – interest rates for homeowners may go up and Americans may have to pay the price for House Republicans lack of leadership on the debt crisis. “Now, America must brace for more economic uncertainty as a result of the downgrade. I am ready to work with my colleagues to return the U.S. to its AAA status and once again make it the safest investment in the world.”
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closures that may result in La Salle County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including Fowlerton. This location connects small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serves as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter. ###
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closure that may result in McMullen County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including Calliham. This location connects small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serves as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter. ###
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closures that may result in Webb County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including those in Mirando and Oilton, because these locations connect small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serve as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter. ###
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closures that may result in Starr County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including those in Salineno, Delmita and Santa Elena, because these locations connect small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serve as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter. ###
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closures that may result in Wilson County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including Pandora. This location connects small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serves as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter. ###
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closures that may result in Atascosa County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including those in Campbellton and Christine, because these locations connect small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serve as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter.
08.05.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement upon notification that eleven United States Post Offices in the 28th District of Texas will undergo a study to determine whether continuing services is merited. The United States Post Office (USPS) is currently faced with financial challenges and has started a comprehensive review of cost cutting measures. “I am deeply concerned about the potential United States Post Office closure that may result in Guadalupe County. This preliminary study will determine which facilities should be discontinued in view of workload, customer demand, or the proximity of alternate postal products and services in the surrounding area. I am not in support of closing any post offices, including Staples. This location connects small rural communities in my district to the rest of the nation and serves as an alternate means of communication for areas that lack technological capabilities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will work with lawmakers and the United States Postal Service to ensure that delivery of services are available to constituents in the district regardless of the outcome of this plan.” Background: Approximately 3,700 post offices, mostly in small and rural communities, are targeted for closure this year as noted in a release sent out by the United States Postal Service (USPS). The USPS would conduct studies of how much foot traffic each office generates and would have to provide notices to communities and hold meetings with local residents before closing any office. The announcement comes at a time when the USPS is struggling financially, with mail volume declining as people communicate digitally. It is projected that 16,000 post offices will close over the next ten years. Changing customer habits in the recent years have resulted in mail volume reduction of more than 43 billion pieces, reduction of 200 million in customer visits; and decline of $2 billion in retail transactions at postal-operated facilities. For communities affected by the change, the USPS introduced the Village Post Office as a replacement option. These post offices would be operated by local businesses (grocery stores, pharmacies and other retailers) and would offer popular products such as stamps and flat-rate packaging. After the study is complete and the USPS determines which facilities are subject to closure, there will be opportunity to appeal the determination. The facility will receive a 60-day Notice of Intention, posting proposal, public comment solicitation, 30-day appeal period (final determination), up to 60-day waiting period, and final decision thereafter.
07.29.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today after voting against S. 627, the Republican Default bill: “Every lawmaker can agree that the federal government must act now to solve our nation’s serious budget problems. With less than a week before the Aug. 2 deadline to raise the debt ceiling, the urgency of the situation has intensified. I strongly believe that bipartisan and bicameral work must be done to find a solution that will reduce our spending and raise the debt ceiling before the deadline. Today, the Republican Majority in the U.S. House of Representatives brought up a bill that lacks serious bipartisan input, and will cause a downgrade in the United States’ credit rating and fails to protect American families and the vital programs we use daily. “I am disappointed that the House bill ignores the very warnings that economists, investors and credit rating agencies have cautioned the United States to avoid by bringing forward a short-term debt limit increase. Rather than putting forward a long-term debt limit solution, House Republicans decided to put off tough decisions now and require us to revisit this debt ceiling debate in less than six months, again, placing the world and country into economic uncertainty for the next two years. Standard & Poor’s credit rating agency has confirmed that a short-term fix would still trigger our country’s credit downgrade. This proposal is a non-starter for our already uncertain financial global markets and would certainly rattle our frail economy. “As early as last week, Republican leaders in the House called for a single debt limit increase and a long-term solution. Now, they are singing a different tune and have flip-flopped to a short-term debt limit increase. Even the former Congressional Budget Office Director, Rudy Penner, appointed by Republican President Ronald Reagan, has said he would much prefer a debt limit increase through 2012 ‘just to delay the type of uncertainty that would be created by a repeat of this debate.’ “It is unacceptable to play politics and allow the largest economy in the world to default on its own debt. A default will not only have a negative global impact, but Americans may not receive their Social Security checks or other vital services. Lawmakers should not get paid while veterans, seniors and those with disabilities will not be receiving benefits because of the country’s default. This is why I am an original cosponsor to the “Stop Pay for Members Act” that would place Members of Congress last on the list to get paid if we default. It is time for Republicans to stop risking our economic security and work with Democrats to enact a long-term, balanced approach to pay our nation’s bills and reduce the deficit. The American people, small businesses and our financial markets need certainty to move our country on a path to responsible deficit reduction – not default.” Background: S. 627, the Republican Default legislation was taken up by the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday, July, 29, 2011, and passed by a vote of 218-210. The bill creates a two-step process for the President to increase the statutory debt limit by as much as $2.5 trillion, following the enactment of $2.7 trillion in spending cuts and other deficit reduction measures. The first step would cut approximately $915 billion and raise the debt ceiling by $900 billion. In six months, Congress must revisit raising the debt ceiling and enact the second step in the process by cutting $1.8 trillion over 10 years through caps and raise the debt ceiling by $1.6 trillion. This bill was revised once the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that it would only reduce deficits by $850, thereby violating the Republicans requirement that cuts exceed any increase in debt limit. The House of Representatives voted on the revised bill that would comply with the GOP requirement. S. 627 is strongly opposed in the Senate and by the Administration. The National Education Association, Club for Growth and other organizations have come out in strong opposition to the bill. Congressman Henry Cuellar is an original cosponsor to H.R. 2653, the “Stop Pay for Members Act” that would require that Members of Congress be paid last should the public debt limit be breached. This would ensure that while the Treasury is deciding which payments to make in the event of a United States default, that the Members of Congress not receive their paycheck and be last for consideration. Additionally, Congressman Henry Cuellar has signed onto a letter to House Speaker Boehner and House Democratic Leader Pelosi regarding the budget plans proposed by Speaker Boehner and Senator Reid. The letter raises important issues that must be solved before a House vote on legislation – to ensure a long-term fiscal solution. The letter also recommends creating a Joint Congressional Committee to continue work on debt and deficit reduction.
07.28.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that applications are being accepted for grants to eligible applicants to help low- and very-low income rural residents repair their homes. “Housing Preservation Grants help bring job growth and stability to low-income communities while improving the living conditions of rural Americans,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This grant can be used to weatherize and repair existing homes, as well as install or improve plumbing or provide access to people with disabilities.” Housing Preservation Grants are provided to intermediaries such as town or county governments, public agencies, federally recognized Indian Tribes, and non-profit and faith-based organizations. The grants are then distributed to qualified homeowners or owners of multi-family rental properties or cooperative dwellings who rent to low- and very-low-income residents. Funding is not provided directly to homeowners by USDA under this program. “These funds can help those homeowners with limited resources to improve their living conditions for them and their families,” said Congressman Cuellar, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. “During these tough economic times, the costs of maintaining a home can be detrimental for those with limited income, and this program, through the work of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and our efforts on the House Agriculture Committee, has the potential of helping many – especially those who most need help now.” USDA may award up to $9.8 million in competitive grants through the Housing Preservation Grant program. Applications are due on Aug. 22, 2011. For more information about application details, please visit www.usda.gov or call the information hotline at (202) 720-2791. USDA, through its Rural Development mission area, administers and manages housing, business and community infrastructure and facility programs through a national network of state and local offices. Rural Development has an existing portfolio of more than $153 billion in loans and loan guarantees. These programs are designed to improve the economic stability of rural communities, businesses, residents, farmers and ranchers and improve the quality of life in rural America.
07.27.2011	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement after receiving notice Social Security field offices will be closing 30 minutes early each day beginning on August 15, 2011. “Seniors, retired and disabled workers depend on Social Security field offices to assist in card applications, benefits and other essential services every day. I have been notified that due to budget constraints, hours of operations at field offices will be closing 30 minutes early. This is an example of how drastic spending cuts have a direct impact on our daily activities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our Republican colleagues, who hold the majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, have repeatedly requested and implemented draconian cuts, including funding Social Security nearly $1 billion less than the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2011. Now, we are faced with a serious dilemma as Social Security offices close early and adapt to tighter budgets. I will continue to work to preserve Social Security and urge my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats to protect these vital programs before we see more offices closing their doors to the public at inconvenient times.” Background: Members of Congress received a letter last week from the Social Security Administration citing a “tight budget situation” as reason for closing Social Security field offices thirty minutes early each day. As an example, an office open to the public Monday through Friday from 9am to 4pm will now close daily at 3:30 p.m. The fiscal year 2011 budget, passed by a Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, funded the Social Security Administration $1 billion less than the President’s budget requested. As a result, field offices have lost nearly 1600 workers over the past nine months and cannot afford to replace staff. To deal with the loss of staff members, the Social Security Administration will close offices early and will fully close field offices to the public on November 25, 2011 so staff may reduce the backlog.
07.21.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s (TX-28) balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution has been endorsed by the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. It would require the President to submit a balanced budget to Congress every fiscal year, along with other measures to enhance fiscal responsibility. The Blue Dog Coalition has endorsed Congressman Cuellar’s amendment as the right measure to reduce the national deficit, while protecting vital programs. This amendment requires Congress to produce a balanced budget every fiscal year and requires the President to submit a balanced budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress. It also protects Social Security, ensuring that our most vulnerable do not face a reduction in benefits when they need them most. “I am pleased by the support from the Blue Dog Coalition for my bill that creates a path to fiscal sovereignty. The balanced budget amendment was the first bill I introduced in an effort to set the tone of sound fiscal policy this Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Reducing the national deficit is not only critical for our country’s economic recovery – it’s critical for future generations of Americans and this bill accomplishes that.” “This bill is common sense to the American people. Forty-nine states currently require an annual balanced budget, and an amendment to the Constitution will finally hold the federal government to the same, common-sense standards,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am eager to continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and the Blue Dog Coalition in an effort to tackle our budget problems with real-time solutions by my balanced budget amendment.” The Blue Dog Coalition, a group of 25 conservative and moderate Democrats from throughout the country, voted Tuesday evening to support Congressman Cuellar’s balanced budget amendment, H. J. Res. 10. Background on H. J. Res. 10: - Require Congress to produce a balanced budget every fiscal year - Require the President to submit a balanced budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress. - Prohibit outlays for a fiscal year from exceeding total receipts for that fiscal year unless Congress, by a three-fifths roll call vote of each House, authorizes a specific excess of outlays over receipts. - Provide seven years for three-fourths of the states to ratify the constitutional amendment. - Protect Social Security benefits, ensuring that our most vulnerable are not subject to a reduction in their guaranteed benefits when they need them the most.
07.20.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today after voting against the Cut, Cap and Balance Act of 2011: “The American people have repeatedly asked us to find ways to cut federal government spending, eliminate waste, and get our fiscal house in order. I am eager to roll up my sleeves and get this difficult mission accomplished. I am, therefore, very disappointed that the bill we are considering today is merely an extreme partisan statement with no chance of becoming law. “This bill also lacks what I continue to advocate for -- a balanced budget amendment to our U.S. Constitution. The first bill I introduced this Congress offers a realistic path to achieve fiscal responsibility and balance. H. J. Res 10 has the support of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. It requires the President to submit a balanced budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress and protects Social Security and allows Congress flexibility to protect vital programs. “Cutting spending and balancing our budget is long overdue. The American people expect us to work together to get the job done. Unfortunately, H.R. 2560 ignores all efforts at bipartisan compromise and would slash Medicare, Social Security, and vital programs that we rely on every day. It sets spending at levels 18 percent of the Gross Domestic Product, far lower than President Reagan’s budget proposals of 21 percent and even some Republicans have called it too extreme to support. It is dead before arrival -- the President has already declared he will veto it and the Senate refuses to consider it. I call on the House to do what the American people sent us here to do – consider a real, bipartisan fiscally responsible bill that actually solves our nation’s budget problems. I urge Speaker Boehner to consider H. J. Res. 10 immediately.” Background: H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap and Balance Act of 2011 is legislation that would require $111 billion in spending reductions in FY 2012, and would establish statutory caps to limit total government spending in future years, including both discretionary and mandatory. The measure also provides for the President's request for an increase in the debt ceiling, but makes it contingent on a balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution passing Congress and being sent to the states for ratification. Groups have come out in opposition to this extreme proposal, including the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonpartisan group, which calls H.R. 2560, “One of the most ideologically extreme pieces of major budget legislation to come before Congress in years, if not decades.”
07.19.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included a provision in the fiscal year 2012 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that urges the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to examine the need for an alternate base of operations at a southwest border location. At present, frequently changing weather conditions and strict air regulations affect unmanned aircraft operations conducted by Customs and Border Protection. The bill passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 231 to 188. “Currently, unmanned aircraft operations for southwest border missions are located at Fort Huachuca in Sierra Vista, Arizona, and the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi, Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This provision calls for an alternate base of operations in an airfield on the southwest border which would reduce the frequent weather-related lapses required for constant surveillance while strengthening security along our southwest border and maritime coast.” The provision calls for the Department of Homeland Security to thoroughly investigate the impact that weather has on providing the constant surveillance necessary for protecting the country at international borders and asks for the establishment of an alternate base of operations as well as additional landing and support services at southwest border locations. The provision also requests the Department of Homeland Security to work with the Department of Defense to obtain information and provide demonstrations on surveillance systems that can operate along the southwest border. “In recognition that the Department of Defense is supporting the development and deployment of similar technology, this provision asks the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense to work together to secure the border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The Department of Homeland Security would implement this technology along the southwest border to better identify threats associated with transnational criminal organizations, drug smugglers and potential threats -- across a variety of land terrains and maritime scenes,” Congressman Cuellar said. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
07.13.2011	Click here to watch Congressman Cuellar speak on the floor of the House of Representatives on his amendment Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) successfully included an amendment in the National Flood Reform Act, which will directly benefit flood-prone communities with outdated flood zone maps in the 28th District of Texas. It addresses local concerns by strengthening relationships among the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), state emergency agencies, and local communities to have a steady and productive process for updating flood zone maps. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives Tuesday evening by a vote of 406 to 22. “Homeowners and businesses in South Texas have been hit by flood disaster yearly,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In speaking with my constituents, I learned that flood zone maps in the 28th District of Texas had not been updated for decades. My amendment will decrease the prevalence of outdated flood maps by requiring increased communications and assistance between federal, state and local entities.” Specifically, the amendment requires FEMA, state emergency agencies and communities where flood insurance rate maps have not been updated in 20 years or more to enhance communications to resolve outstanding issues and provide necessary, tailored information to decrease the prevalence of outdated flood zone maps. “A flood-threatened area with outdated flood zone maps is contradictory and can result in serious problems for the region,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am pleased this bipartisan legislation passed the House of Representatives – I will continue to ensure that flood-threatened communities are protected and provided the necessary resources.” The bill now moves to Senate for consideration. Background: H.R. 1309, Flood Insurance Reform Act reauthorized the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) through September 30, 2016. The bill also makes numerous changes to the program, which provides federally subsidized insurance to homeowners, renters and businesses if their community participates in the NFIP. The bill provides authority to temporarily suspend mandatory purchase requirements for those in special flood hazard areas. The National Flood Insurance Program is the primary source for reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for 5.6 million American homes and businesses. The bill is supported by many organizations, including the National Association of Realtors, the National Association of Homebuilders, the American Insurance Association, the Property Casualty Insurers Association, and the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America.
07.13.2011	A second Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) will soon be based in Texas in an effort to help secure the U.S.-Mexico border. The Predator UAV is equipped with an electro-optical/infrared sensor system that vastly improves the operational effectiveness in CBP missions and is drone with synthetic aperture radar suitable for flights in darkness and inclement weather. By the end of 2011, the next UAV will be stationed at the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station alongside the Guardian UAV, which began service including maritime missions earlier this year. “That will give us six aircraft on the Southwest border and because of the ops concept and the way we fly them on any given day there could be three or more aircraft in Texas. And they’re routinely now flying nightly not only in the Rio Grande Valley but up through Laredo and up to El Paso,” testified Maj. Gen. Michael Kostelnik, who oversees U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s UAV program, responding to Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) and Michael McCaul (R-Austin) during Tuesday’s Homeland Security subcommittee hearing. Congressmen Cuellar and McCaul have lead bipartisan efforts to increase the use of technology to secure the U.S.-Mexico border. In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano in April, they requested that DHS increase UAV coverage in Texas. “The addition will further allow CBP to receive precise, real time surveillance, allowing the deployment of fewer agents in a specific area, while intercepting drugs, human smuggling and acts of terrorism,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our vigilant efforts to secure the border, through the work of Maj. Gen. Kostelnik, the Department of Homeland Security and Congressman McCaul’s bipartisan efforts will be ongoing.” Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The Texas UAV, the Guardian, is assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to uniquely perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas, however, shares 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370- mile boundary.
07.06.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today Congressional District 28 is directly benefiting from health care reform by paying less for prescription drugs – more than 2,169 Medicare beneficiaries in the ‘donut hole’ or coverage gap saved $1,268,560, after the enactment of the Affordable Care Act. The average discount amount per Medicare beneficiary in Texas is $594.38 “For too long, those having to purchase prescription drugs using their Medicare Part D benefits were paying high out-of-pocket costs for medication they depend on once they entered in the ‘donut hole’,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My constituents have saved $1.2 million in prescription drug costs due to the 50% discount on their medications – this is great news for those who used to bear the brunt of paying for 100% of the costs. Health care reform continues to directly improve the lives of the American people by affording them health care coverage.” “One year after the law was enacted we see the important cost-saving measures that are helping Medicare beneficiaries. In the near future, as new provisions of the law take effect, the American people will have access to more health care at a cost they can afford,” Cuellar said. Below is a breakdown of the number of Medicare beneficiaries that have received a discount in counties in the 28th District of Texas: Total Year-to-Date Gap Discount by County through May 31, 2011 County Name Number of Beneficiaries Total Discount Atascosa 34 $18,704.30 Bexar (partial) 1620 $949,646.83 Guadalupe 88 $49,383.48 Hidalgo (partial) 301 $178,299.22 Starr 18 $14,532.71 Webb 67 $33,838.58 Wilson 41 $24,155.38 TOTALS 2169 $1,268,560.50 Source: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, May 31, 2011 Since January 2011, nearly 500,000 people with Medicare Part D who reached the gap in coverage know as the “donut hole” received an automatic 50 percent discount on their brand name prescription drugs nationwide. These beneficiaries saved a total of $260,534,102, or an average savings of $545 per beneficiary. Texans have saved over $16 million, as a result of the discount on prescription drugs purchased within the Affordable Care Act, now law. Background: The Affordable Care Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010, and made several changes to reduce out-of-pocket costs, including Medicare Part D Improvements for Prescription Drug Plans. Referred to as “donut hole,” the coverage gap is a concern to seniors and disabled who are enrolled under the Part D prescription drug plan. Once beneficiaries have spent the amount of coverage limit for their prescription drugs, they fall in the donut hole and (prior to the enactment of the Affordable Care Act) had to pay full costs of prescription drugs. Under the Affordable Care Act, since January 2011, Medicare Part D improvements allow people to receive a 50% discount on prescription drugs purchased when they fall in the “donut hole” or gap. By 2020, rather than paying 100% of costs, the coverage gap will close and the beneficiary’s responsibility will be 25% of costs.
07.06.2011	The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program announced assistance for homeowners in Texas who have experienced a substantial loss of income (a reduction of at least 15 percent) due to unemployment, underemployment or a medical condition that has caused people to fall behind on payments. “As we continue efforts to rebuild our economy, we cannot forget those who have endured the hardest hit by the economic downturn,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This loan program will help families who have worked toward homeownership – the foundation of the American dream. I would like to thank Laredo-Webb Neighborhood Housing Services for helping spread the message to the community and urge all qualified homeowners to apply soon since the deadline is fast approaching.” HUD anticipates a high demand for the loans and in order to ensure that program funds are made available in a fair and impartial manner, homeowners must first complete a pre-applicant screening. Approved homeowners will be placed in a lottery system, and those chosen will receive a one-time zero interest, forgivable bridge loan to pay certain arrearages. The loan will also assist in making monthly first lien mortgage payments. Assistance will last a maximum duration of 24 months, or up to a loan amount of $50,000 in mortgage payment assistance – whichever occurs first. To apply, further information regarding eligibility and application submission can be found at www.ehlptexas.org or call (877) 417-8272. Information on the program in Spanish can be found at http://www.ehlptexas.org/?page_id=72. Applications will be accepted through July 22, 2011.
07.06.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement after U.S. and Mexican officials signed a three-year memorandum of understanding between the United States and Mexico on cargo trucks: “This agreement is great news for Texas producers and an important step to more open, transparent and efficient trade between the two countries. Lower tariffs mean more jobs in the 28th District of Texas and throughout the country. This agreement will create more jobs and help increase the flow of goods and products that drive economic growth. Every day, more than $1 billion in goods move across the U.S.-Mexico border. Now, this number will be even higher. This historic and important agreement has far-reaching implications that will benefit both countries for years to come.” Background: The agreement signed today calls for the immediate lift of 50 percent of the tariffs to allow U.S. cargo trucks to travel into Mexico. The agreement also establishes a reciprocal, phased-in pilot program that allows Mexican trucks to operate inside the U.S. provided they comply with a series of safety and driver skills and language tests monitored by the U.S. Department of Transportation. The remaining 50 percent of tariffs would be lifted when the first Mexican carrier receives authorization under the new program.
07.05.2011	In an effort to secure and protect the U.S.-Mexico border from increasing border violence associated with transnational criminal organizations, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included legislation in the fiscal year 2012 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that calls for a five-year plan on staffing and deployment of U.S. Customs and Border Protection personnel and asks the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to enhance their relationship with state, local, federal and foreign law enforcement agencies to better prepare for security threats on the border. The legislation passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 231 to 188. “As we work to secure our southwest border, we must have a clear plan of where we can strategically place CBP officers by taking into account areas of increased apprehensions,” Congressman Cuellar said. The legislation calls for CBP to submit a report on a five-year staffing and deployment plan by Border Patrol and directs CBP to take into account levels of border crossings and apprehensions by CBP officers to strategically determine where to best place federal officers and agents. The legislation also asks DHS to coordinate activities with state and local law enforcement and to develop training programs designed to educate, promote, and provide the tools necessary to effectively stay one step ahead of transnational criminal organizations. “My legislation would also enhance the U.S. Department of Homeland Security relationships with state, local, federal and foreign law enforcement agencies to develop training programs that can help all levels of law enforcement better prepare for threats from cross-border criminal organizations,” Congressman Cuellar said. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.29.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today after the White House announced it had reached a bipartisan agreement with Republicans in Congress to implement the pending trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. “I’m very encouraged by the compromises reached to move the free trade agreements forward,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The stakes could not be higher. The sooner we sign these agreements into law, the sooner we will grow our economy and create more American jobs.” Throughout this year, Congressman Cuellar and the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus have hosted trade talks between Members of Congress and stakeholders such as the Korean Ambassador to the United States Han Duk-soo and the Colombian Ambassador to the United States Gabriel Silva in an effort to move negotiations on the free trade agreements. “As the representative to the largest inland port in the country, and founder of the bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus, I look forward to working with the Obama administration and my colleagues in Congress to fully consider and approve these agreements,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Trade is a vital part of America’s economic engine, fuels economic growth, creates jobs and supports millions of American workers.”
06.28.2011	In an effort to secure and protect ports of entry throughout the country, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included legislation in the fiscal year 2012 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill that would fund and expand DHS’s support to local and state fusion centers as well as work to secure funding for U.S. Customs and Border Protection operations. The legislation passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 231 to 188. “Information sharing is a key component of successful law enforcement efforts. My legislation helps fusion centers stay one step ahead of the criminals,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Enhanced communications allow our agencies to work in tandem to prevent acts of terrorism and improve the security of this nation.” The legislation calls for the expansion of DHS support to state and local fusion centers and asks DHS to not only better identify benefits derived from the fusion centers but to also present a list of needs to Congress with the fiscal year 2013 budget request. “My legislation could allocate more than $639 million to U.S. Customs and Border Protection to be used for operational purposes,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This funding is needed in this time of increased security concerns when we need to protect our southwest border communities.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.23.2011	Legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) that helps hospitals in South Texas attract nurses and reauthorizes the H-1C temporary visa program for foreign nurses to come to the United States was voted out of the House Judiciary Committee today and now heads for a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives. “We are in great need of highly qualified and skilled nurses in Texas hospitals to help us care for the ill,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Hospitals need these nurses to help treat the scores of people who need medical attention as well as to assist medical doctors in carrying out their day-to-day practices. I will continue to work with Congressman Lamar Smith, as well as other members of Congress in a bi-partisan way, to secure a vote in the House of Representatives. This is a big step forward to get our communities the resources to address its health needs.” About the H-1C Temporary Visa Program: In 1999, Congress passed the “Nursing Relief for Disadvantaged Areas Act” to help hospitals that serve mostly low income patients in inner-city neighborhoods as well as hospitals in rural areas. The bill created a new “H-1C” temporary registered nurse visa program where 500 visas become available each year and nurses are allowed a three year stay. The visa program expired in December 2009. To be able to petition for a foreign nurse, an employer has to meet four conditions. First, the employer has to be located in a health professional shortage area. Second, the employer has to have at least 190 acute care beds. Third, a certain percentage of the employer’s patients have to be Medicare patients. And fourth, a certain percentage of patients have to be Medicaid patients. The H-1C program also contains protections for American nurses. For instance, a hospital has to agree to take timely and significant steps to recruit American nurses. Also, hospitals have to pay the prevailing wage. It also requires that foreign nurses cannot comprise more than one-third of a hospital’s registered nurses.
06.23.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced that the U.S. and its partners in the International Energy Agency would release a total of 60 million barrels of oil onto the world market to offset the demand of oil. In contributing to the effort, the U.S. will release 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve: “In the past few months, the American people have been dealt a serious financial burden because of high gas prices. The Administration’s announcement on the release of 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is the right move as the issue of high gas prices affects the daily lives of all. I have been working on a similar legislative effort to reduce the price of gas and help the American people as they face tough economic times. “Last month, I introduced H.R. 1914, the Gas Price Stabilization Act of 2011, which calls for the sale of 70 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. I urge Congress to take an active role along with the Administration in lowering gas prices and stabilizing oil markets.”
06.17.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that the South Texas Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse (STCADA) received federal funding from a Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grant in the amount of $893,614. In addition to the HUD grant, Webb County District Attorney Chilo Alaniz and Sheriff Martin Cuellar both contributed $48,667 each and Mr. Javier Santos, on behalf of the Fernando A. Salinas Trust, contributed $50,691 bringing the total amount of funding for the project to $1,041,639. The funds will support the “Next Step Project” which aims to provide permanent supportive housing for the chronically homeless as they transition into self-sufficiency. “Twenty housing units will be built through the Next Step Project to support the homeless in the Laredo and Webb County area, many of whom are struggling with issues such as mental illness, substance abuse and domestic violence,” Congressman Cuellar said. “The awarded funds help STCADA further their mission of helping individuals rebuild their lives by allowing this important organization to offer robust around the clock care to those suffering with chronic homelessness.” STCADA will develop screening criteria to identify appropriate persons who qualify for supportive housing services. Recruitment efforts will place special emphasis on those persons living in locations not meant for human habitation, persons from emergency shelters and persons in temporary supported housing. Once in the facility, individuals will receive continuous care for their basic needs. Therapy will also be provided by caseworkers and counselors along with life and job skills to help individuals transform their lives from homeless to self sufficient. STCADA is working with other organizations in the city including Bethany House, the Food Bank and the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation to name a few in efforts to ensure that the facility is able to supply adequate food and other essential services. “I would like to thank Mr. Javier Santos, Sheriff Martin Cuellar and Webb County District Attorney Chilo Alaniz for contributing necessary funds to make this project possible,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I also thank Mr. Romeo Rodriguez, Executive Director of STCADA in Laredo, for never faltering in making this facility a reality.” This is the first permanent housing facility for the homeless in Webb County.
06.17.2011	“This morning, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates signed an order extending the temporary deployment of National Guard personnel along the Southwest border through September 30, 2011. Since their arrival at the end of last summer, thousands of National Guard Soldiers and Airmen have served alongside U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents to thwart violence associated with Mexican drug cartels. Their efforts and assistance to CBP have not only yielded the seizure of more than 14,000 pounds of drugs, but they have also strengthened the multi-layered approach to combat the smuggling of persons, illegal narcotics, and dangerous weapons along our border. This announcement comes at a critical time. The United States has yet to experience spillover violence thanks in large part to an unparalleled increase in resources, including the National Guard personnel. We must not relinquish our commitment to keeping communities, especially those along the U.S.-Mexico border, safe. I welcome the extension of the National Guard troops as a necessary step in continued efforts to strengthen the security of our border to Mexico, and reduce drug-related violence and illegal activity.”
06.15.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included legislation in the fiscal year 2012 Military Construction and Veterans funding bill that would bring south Texas one step closer to having a full-service VA hospital. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives Tuesday afternoon by a vote of 411 to 5. “Our veterans have served our country with great distinction and honor and we owe it to them to have a full-service VA hospital in south Texas,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This legislation allows us to place the project on a high-priority list. This is a big step, but it is also long overdue. I will continue to work hard until the health care needs of our veterans are met.” Congressman Cuellar’s legislation calls for the expansion of veterans’ health care access and urges the VA Administration to prioritize the construction of a VA hospital in south Texas by placing it on the VA Strategic Capital Improvement Plan, designed to place the project on a priority list. Additionally, Congressman Cuellar has introduced a bill to expand the existing VA health care center in Harlingen to provide in-patient care, urgent care services and a full range of services for women veterans as well as other support services. In the bill, Congressman Cuellar indicated the veterans’ community in south Texas in rapidly growing and that a need for adequate health care exists in the region. Presently, veterans wanting to receive care from a VA hospital have to travel approximately five hours to the Audie L. Murphy VA Hospital in San Antonio. Earlier this year, the VA opened a new $40 million health center in Harlingen to accommodate the needs of south Texas veterans. The health center, which offers outpatient care, is a first step toward full-service health care to the region. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs funding bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.15.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) included legislation in the fiscal year 2012 Military Construction and Veterans Appropriations Act that would bolster security on the U.S.-Mexico border. The bill directs the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard to position a hangar on the border that would provide for stationing of additional UAVs (unmanned aerial systems.) The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives Tuesday afternoon by a vote of 411 to 5. The bill calls for the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard to design and construct a hangar on the southwest border that could house additional UAVs in addition to supporting National Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other law enforcement agencies for terrestrial, maritime and aerial surveillance of the border. “Texas has 1,200 miles of border with Mexico, and we only have one UAV that patrols miles and miles of the border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This legislation directs the Army National Guard and Air National Guard to look at additional locations on the southwest border where we can strategically locate an additional hangar and house UAVs in the near future. As UAVs prove to be effective in our daily efforts to combat border violence, it is necessary to work on securing more hangars, especially as we prepare to receive additional UAVs in Texas.” Two UAV systems are on order as part of H.R. 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill, to be delivered by the end of 2011. While the Department of Homeland Security has not determined where these systems will be assigned, Congressmen Cuellar and Michael McCaul sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano on April 27, 2011, urging DHS to station both in Texas along its border with Mexico. Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The Texas UAV is assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas, however, shares 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370-mile boundary. The UAV stationed in Corpus Christi, a Guardian Maritime Variant delivered February 2011, carries unique technology used for maritime haze filtration. In addition it carries the same surveillance technology used over land in the Predator-B. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.08.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced and congratulated La Vernia High School senior Curtis Lackey on his acceptance into The United States Air Force Academy for the 2011-2012 academic school year. “I take the responsibility of nominating students into service academies seriously,” Congressman Cuellar said. “During the extensive nomination process, Curtis had the kind of impressive resume and moral character I look for in nominees. I have no doubt that he will represent our 28th Congressional District in Texas to the best of his ability.” Curtis was actively involved on his high school campus and in philanthropy. He maintained a 3.7 GPA while playing baseball and running track, being a member of the La Vernia Volunteer Fire Department and serving as Vice President of his senior class. “Words cannot express the honor and gratitude I have for my acceptance to The United States Air Force Academy. I could not imagine a better opportunity,” Curtis Lackey said. “I plan to make the most it and perform to the best of my ability. I would like to thank Mr. Henry Cuellar for his nomination, as well as my family, for without them, I would not be where I am today." Background: The United States Air Force Academy is a federal service academy that provides undergraduates with not only a Bachelor’s degree, but also the training necessary to serve as an officer in the armed forces. Acceptance to service academies is competitive, and most require a student to be nominated by a Member of Congress, United States Senator or the Vice President of the United States. In Congressman Cuellar’s 28th Congressional District of Texas, over 30 applicants applied to service academies and one spot was available for a student from the district into the U.S. Air Force Academy. Congressman Cuellar’s decision on nominating Mr. Lackey came with the help of a distinguished interview panel which consisted of former academy graduates and community leaders.
06.03.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) successfully advocated for legislation in the fiscal year 2012 Homeland Security Appropriations Act that would restore eligibility for the city of San Antonio for the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), which aids cities in planning for and responding to acts of terrorism. Without the amendment, the legislation would have limited the eligibility to only 10 cities, not including the city of San Antonio. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday by a vote of 231 to 188. While San Antonio previously received $6.2 million from the UASI program, in May, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced that San Antonio, along with 31 other cities, would not receive UASI funding. “San Antonio is a terrorist threat because it is home to four military installations, the second largest National Security Agency office in the country and is a major entry point in South Texas,” Congressman Cuellar. “I fought to ensure that San Antonio was once again eligible to receive this important funding, and I will continue to fight to give it the funding that it deserves.” Congressman Cuellar also voted for an amendment that would have allocated an additional $337 million to the UASI program. That amendment failed by a vote of 154 to 266. On May 24, 2011, Congressman Cuellar addressed a letter to Congressman Peter King, Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee that urged him to conduct a field hearing in San Antonio to examine the cuts to homeland security grant programs for fiscal years (FY) 2011 and 2012. “While it’s obvious we need cuts to federal spending, critical programs that keep our communities safe should not be on the chopping block,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am working with Chairman King and Ranking Member Bennie Thompson to ensure we address this issue.” The Urban Area Security Initiative, or USAI, provides funding to address the unique planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas, and assists them preventing, protecting against, responding to, and recovering from acts of terrorism. Per the 9/11 Act, states are required to ensure that at least 25 percent of UASI appropriated funds are dedicated towards law enforcement terrorism prevention activities. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.03.2011	Today, the office of Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) along with Laredo Community College held a workshop for fire and EMS departments and cities wishing to establish or grow fire departments through federal funds. “Workshops that aid organizations in the process of applying for a grant and writing an application prove helpful,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Often, organizations stay away from applying for federal funds because the task may seem daunting. These workshops streamline the application process and are a step closer to ensuring taxpayer dollars return to our communities in the form of federal funds.” Firefighter grants are awarded through the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The presentation, given by Diane Breedlove, a subject matter specialist for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, covered all three grant programs: Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG), Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response Grants (SAFER) and the Fire Prevention Grant. In 2009, the amount awarded to fire departments across the nation is estimated at $737,500,000. Representatives from Webb, Duval, La Salle, Frio, Zavala, Dimmit and Maverick counties were all invited to attend. The workshop is particularly timely since Congress is currently debating how much funding to allocate for SAFER and Fire grants. This week, Congressman Cuellar successfully fought for an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act that restores the previous funding levels to the grant programs by $320 million and was approved by a vote of 333-87. Congressman Cuellar will continue to support amendments that support responsible and efficient uses of taxpayer dollars. Background: AFG The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Funds may be used to obtain equipment, emergency vehicles and training. SAFER The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grants (SAFER) was created to provide funding directly to fire departments and volunteer organizations in order to increase the number of trained firefighters available in the community. Fire Prevention The Fire Prevention and Safety Grants support projects that enhance the safety of the public and firefighters from fire and related hazards with the primary goals being to target high-risk populations, reduce injury and prevent death.
06.02.2011	Today, the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act of 2011, H.R. 915, named after ICE Special Agent Jaime Zapata was voted out of the House Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee and heads for a vote in the House Homeland Security Committee, putting the bill one step closer to becoming law. The bill would enhance border security and reduce security threats by authorizing and appropriating funds for law enforcement units on the border. “Seeing proposed legislation, named after ICE Special Agent Jaime Zapata out of respect for his service to our country and because he paid the ultimate sacrifice for the safety and security of us all, voted out of the subcommittee today and one step closer to becoming law, brings a great sense of commitment and accomplishment of our work to protect the U.S. border,” Congressman Cuellar said. “As I said when I first introduced this bill, I will continue to push to move it through the legislative process in honor of Special Agent Zapata’s work, dedication and commitment to serving the United States of America in the Department of Homeland Security and Customs and Border Protection.” BEST units may be comprised of Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, and other law enforcement agencies at the federal, state, tribal, local and international level. The units will have authority to investigate, apprehend and prosecute individuals engaged in drug trafficking, arms smuggling, human smuggling and trafficking, violence and kidnapping along borders. “Maintaining strong border security is a commitment of mine and reflective of the work I do through my committee assignments in the United States Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I strongly believe collaboration and cooperation are key in successfully deterring criminal activity on the border and BEST units can reduce border violence by improving information sharing between federal, state, local and international law enforcement agencies.” The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), would give Congress the ability to oversee authorization and appropriation of funds for the units, which previously was under the Department of Homeland Security. “As the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, I believe it is important that Congress continues to fund BEST units, so we can successfully combat border crime while we cooperate and share information with a multitude of law enforcement agencies,” Congressman Cuellar said. The first BEST team was based in Laredo. ICE establishes BEST units based on which areas are significantly impacted by border threats, the availability of law enforcement to participate, and the extent to which the threats are harmfully impacting the area. Under the proposed law, the Department of Homeland Security and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency will annually report on the effectiveness of the BEST as measured by crime statistics, to include violent deaths, incidents of violence, and drug related arrests. Background: In July 2005, ICE, in partnership with CBP, as well as other federal, state, local and foreign law enforcement officials expanded its ongoing Border Crimes Initiative by creating a multi-agency initiative called Operation Blackjack (predecessor to the BEST), to address the increased violence along the Southwest border with Mexico. In 2006, DHS formally adopted the BEST initiative as a DHS task force in order to leverage federal, state, local, tribal and foreign law enforcement and intelligence resources in an effort to identify, disrupt, and dismantle organizations that seek to exploit vulnerabilities along the U.S. borders and threaten the overall safety and security of the American public. The BEST Act of 2011 has been referred to the House Committee on Homeland Security, which Congressman Cuellar is a member of. He also serves as the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, which has direct jurisdiction over border security. On February 15, 2011, ICE special agents Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila were ambushed by members of Mexican drug cartels in San Luis Potosi. The two ICE agents were traveling between Mexico City and Monterrey. Special Agent Zapata succumbed to his injuries, living in the southwest border his entire life. Special Agent Avila was shot is now recovering. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
06.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Members of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC), the Korea Caucus and other Members of Congress attended a policy briefing Wednesday hosted by the Korean Ambassador to the United States, Han Duk-soo. The meeting was attended by nearly a dozen bipartisan Members of Congress, including CPTC Chairman and founder Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28 "Trade is vital part of America’s economic engine. Trade fuels economic growth, creates jobs and supports millions of American workers," said Congressman Cuellar. "We are continuing to build the political will to pass the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. These meetings ensure momentum to pass this and other economically beneficial trade policies for America are not lost.” This week’s meeting was organized to help Members of Congress understand how the pending Free Trade Agreement with Korea will benefit their individual Congressional districts. Members of Congress and the Ambassador engaged in a positive dialogue over the status of the agreement moving forward. The agreement will make two-thirds of Korean imports of U.S. agriculture products duty free immediately. Currently, South Korea is the United States’ seventh largest trading partner. Ten years ago, the U.S. was the top exporter to Korea – providing one-fifth of all Korean imports. Today, the U.S. sits in third place with less than 10% market share. “Trade agreements such as the one with Korea stabilize local jobs while supporting small businesses and increasing consumer choice,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Exports in the first half of last year alone supported 10 million jobs and brought in $890 billion. In Texas, more than one-fourth of all manufacturing workers depend on exports for their jobs. Today, we live in a global market that is only growing larger. We must be ready to meet the challenges that come with emerging and growing markets.” The bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC) is dedicated to advancing an international trade policy that keeps the United States globally competitive. For more information on Congressman Cuellar’s involvement with other trade issues, please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3829 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – San Antonio is one of 30 major U.S. cities that will lose funding from a U.S. Department of Homeland Security program that helps cities prevent, protect and respond to acts of terrorism in high-density urban communities. In response, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) addressed a letter to Congressman Peter King, Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee that urges him to conduct oversight hearings to examine the cuts to homeland security grant programs for fiscal years (FY) 2011 and 2012. “San Antonio is a threat risk because it is home to four military installations and the second-largest National Security Agency office in the country,” Congressman Cuellar. “While it’s obvious we need cuts to federal spending, critical programs that keep our communities safe should not be on the chopping block. I am working with Chairman King and Ranking Member Bennie Thompson to ensure we address this issue and restore the funding.” May 24, 2011 The Honorable Peter T. King Chairman Committee on Homeland Security U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman King: We are writing to request that the Committee on Homeland Security conduct oversight hearings to examine the cuts to homeland security grant programs for fiscal years (FY) 2011 and 2012 and the preparedness and response gaps that are likely to result on the State, local, and tribal levels. Since the beginning of the 112th Congress, we have vigorously opposed reductions, as proposed by the Republican leadership, to vital homeland security programs, most especially grant funding to first responders. First, in February 2011, the House passed H.R. 1, the “Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011,” which called for cutting homeland security grant funding for FY 2011 by approximately $900 million. Then, in March, Congress passed the Further Continuing Appropriations Amendments of 2011 (P.L. 112-4) that cut first responder grants funding for FY 2011 by $125 million. Finally, Congress passed the last continuing resolution for FY 2011, the “Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011” (P.L. 112-10), which will result in preparedness and response grants being cut by at least twenty percent. We opposed each of these reductions. Of further concern is the forthcoming FY 2012 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) appropriations bill that was recently approved by the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee. It would reduce homeland security grant programs by $2.1 billion below the FY 2011 level. Taken together, these cuts undermine critical preparedness and response capabilities throughout the Nation. This Committee has steadfastly supported the Nation’s capability, capacity, and preparedness for catastrophic incidents, both terrorism-related and natural disasters. Because of our record on these issues we cannot remain silent. First responders and the grant programs that allow them to serve must become a part of the decision-making process. To bring into focus the capabilities that may be lost as a result of these cuts, we would like to present you with a few specific examples of the diversity of the homeland security risk. A recent “lone wolf” scenario that is worth noting occurred in February of this year, when Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari, a resident of Lubbock, Texas, was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) in Lubbock for purchasing materials to make an improvised explosive device with the intention of bombing potential U.S. targets. Lubbock is not an Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) jurisdiction and therefore relies heavily on the State Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) funding for preparedness and response capabilities. Preparedness funding under the Transit Security Grant Program (TSGP) is essential to help secure our mass transit systems and potentially prevent a domestic attack, as occurred in Moscow in March of 2010, when terrorists bombed multiple targets within the Moscow subway system in quick succession. Accordingly, the $53 million reduction in TSGP funding in FY 2011 could not come at a worse time, given that the threat to our Nation’s mass transit and rail systems is at its highest level. Buffalo, a community that is slated to be cut from the UASI program, was the site of the “Lackawanna Six” prosecution in 2002. The elimination of funding of over thirty jurisdictions from this critical program, including Buffalo, is shortsighted and fails to recognize the geographically diverse nature of the terrorism risk. While we have limited the above examples to SHSGP, TSGP, and UASI, we would also like to highlight that the Assistance to Firefighter grants program and Port Security Grant Program are slated for significant reductions under the proposed FY 2012 DHS appropriations bill. It is imperative that our State, local and tribal first responders maintain a heightened state of readiness and vigilance towards man-made and natural threats. This requires that they have a full partner at the Federal level through grant programs such as UASI, SHSGP, and TSGP. Yet the grant guidance for FY 2011, as recently released by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, would reduce the number of eligible jurisdictions to participate in UASI significantly, even as al-Qaida recently vowed to carry out attacks in retaliation in the killing of Osama Bin Laden. In closing, while we all agree on the need to be fiscally responsible, we cannot afford to shortchange the Nation’s preparedness by making arbitrary funding cuts. To that end, we request a Full Committee hearing that brings together leaders from States, urban areas, and first responder groups and provides an opportunity to hear from those on the frontlines. Additionally, we strongly believe that the Committee would benefit from conducting a series of field hearings in jurisdictions that were eliminated from the UASI program under the FY 2011 grant guidance, such as San Antonio, Buffalo, Sacramento, New Orleans, Kansas City, and Tucson. At these hearings we can see firsthand the security challenges these grant cuts will create across a diverse range of communities. If you have any questions, please contact Lanier Avant, Democratic Staff Director, Committee on Homeland Security. Sincerely, Bennie G. Thompson Loretta Sanchez Ranking Member Member of Congress Sheila Jackson Lee Henry Cuellar Member of Congress Member of Congress Yvette D. Clarke Laura Richardson Member of Congress Member of Congress Danny K. Davis Brian Higgins Member of Congress Member of Congress Jackie Speier Cedric L. Richmond Member of Congress Member of Congress Hansen Clarke William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress Background information on UASI: The Urban Area Security Initiative, or USAI, provides funding to address the unique planning, organization, equipment, training, and exercise needs of high-threat, high-density urban areas, and assists them in building an enhanced and sustainable capacity to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism. Per the 9/11 Act, states are required to ensure that at least 25 percent (25%) of UASI appropriated funds are dedicated towards law enforcement terrorism prevention activities. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
05.19.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced introduction of a bill that will put downward pressure on gas prices, helping consumers deal with rising costs this summer. As our country begins to recover from the worst recession since the Great Depression, American families have to deal with skyrocketing gas prices at the pump due to middle east turmoil,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This bill increases domestic supply and lowers gas prices for Americans who need immediate relief.” The Gas Price Stabilization Act calls for the sale of 70 million barrels of light grade petroleum from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) into the market – which would increase domestic supply and lower gas prices. The bill also requires the Secretary of Energy to publish a plan for the sale of prescribed amounts of light grade petroleum from the SPR and acquire an equivalent volume of heavy grade petroleum. Since the creation of the SPR in the early 1970s, oil refinement has improved and adapted to new production methods. In addition to lowering prices, this legislation will update the SPR’s inventory to take advantage of our energy infrastructure. “We must take immediate action to lower prices at the pump,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This is one way Congress can do their part and immediately ease American’s pain.” The Gas Price Stabilization Act would increase the amount of domestic oil the U.S. holds in supply while immediately lowing the price of gasoline at the pump. The bill would require the sale of 70 million barrels of light grade petroleum in exchange for the less expensive heavy grade petroleum. The sale would be required to take place within thirty days after the enactment and would be completed within six months after enactment requiring at least 20 million barrels offered for sale within the first 60 days after the bill becomes law. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
05.19.2011	Hidalgo County, Texas – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced federal funds in the amount of $7,096,275 from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development. The cities of Alton, Hidalgo and Palmview all received funds for rural development projects in their respective communities in South Texas. “When local communities reach out for federal assistance, we make their requests a top priority. When we can take significant steps such as this to increase public safety, improve infrastructure and create jobs, every family in the area benefits,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Hidalgo County taxpayers pay their taxes to the federal government and I'm proud to bring as much of it back for local projects in South Texas. I’d like to thank USDA Rural Development State Director, Paco Valentin, for his work in securing these funds." The City of Alton will receive $1,000,000 in federal funds for the construction of a new fire station. Repairing the current fire station, which is too small to serve the growing community, would not be cost effective. The new fire station will be centrally located and will house first responder personnel 24 hours a day seven days a week. The station will also have bays with easy access to vehicles and fire trucks that can get to main thoroughfares quickly, allowing for faster response times. The City of Hidalgo will receive $5,975,000 in federal funds to construct a new 1.5 million gallons per day wastewater treatment plant. The new plant will be located adjacent to the existing wastewater treatment plant and will increase total capacity to 2.7 million gallons per day. The City of Palmview will receive a grant of $121,275 to begin a Revolving Loan Fund to aid small and emerging businesses. Under the program, a loan is made to a small business and as repayments are made, funds become available for new loans for other businesses. The goal of the loan program is to increase economic development and create one full time job for every $25,000 loaned. Some potential recipients that have expressed interest and qualify include: a bakery, an adult daycare center and a road side service business. “Facility upgrades and new business development are essential items needed for the sustainability of growing rural communities,” said USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin. “USDA Rural Development is pleased to offer funding for these services and projects that will increase the quality of life for residents of Hidalgo County.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Members of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC), a bipartisan coalition dedicated to promoting trade as a tool to spur economic growth and job creation in the United States, as well as Members of the Congressional Colombia Caucus and interested Members of Congress, hosted a trade policy briefing Thursday with the Colombian Ambassador to the United States, Gabriel Silva. The meeting was attended by more than a dozen bipartisan Members of Congress, including CPTC Chairman and founder Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). "Trade is vital part of America’s economic engine. Trade fuels economic growth, creates jobs and supports millions of American workers," said Congressman Cuellar. "We are continuing to build the political will to pass the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement. These meetings ensure momentum to pass this and other economically beneficial trade policies for America are not lost.” This week’s meeting was organized to help Members of Congress understand how the pending Free Trade Agreement with Colombia will benefit their individual Congressional districts. Members of Congress and the Ambassador engaged in a positive dialogue over the status of the agreement moving forward. Several pro-trade lawmakers indicated they will persist in their effort to pass the agreement this year. Recently, President Obama welcomed Colombian President Juan Santos at the White House and the two took part in conversations over the trade agreement. The meeting was a step toward the U.S. joining other trade leaders who have deemed exports an important way to grow and sustain cross-cultural economies. “This agreement will create American jobs and continue our burgeoning economic growth,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Increasing trade not only provides American families with more affordable goods and services – it will also help services and manufacturing sectors drive job creation, which is estimated to increase domestic products by $2.5 billion. Exports in the first half of last year alone supported 10 million jobs and brought in $890 billion. Today, we live in a global market that is only growing larger. We must be ready to meet the challenges that come with emerging and growing markets.” “I have long awaited the announcement of the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement and will work with my colleagues in Congress and with the Executive Branch to move swiftly on its implementation,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This agreement with the United States ensures our country remains competitive on a global front – with countries like China and the European Union, which have already sought partnerships with Colombia.” The bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC) is dedicated to advancing an international trade policy that keeps the United States globally competitive. For more information on Congressman Cuellar’s involvement with other trade issues, please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3829 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
05.11.2011	Washington, D.C. – “President Obama’s speech in El Paso today touched on the realization of the American dream. As a child of migrant farm workers, I have seen firsthand that they contribute immensely to the growth and prosperity of our country. Democrats have worked to toughen border security through the addition of thousands of Border Patrol agents and surveillance of unmanned aerial vehicles on the southwest border. We must now consider comprehensive immigration reform that keeps our nation safe and provides a path to legalization for those with a serious interest in adding to the future economic growth of our country. Many only need the opportunity to arrive on our shores to pursue their own American dreams.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
05.01.2011	"Sunday night’s announcement by President Obama that U.S. Armed Forces have killed Osama Bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaeda and the terrorist responsible for the deaths of thousands of Americans on September 11, 2001, comes at a time when U.S. Armed Forces continue to fight for our freedoms and work to bring peace to the people of the Middle East and other regions of the world. "As our work continues to deter and dismantle terrorist organizations throughout the world, I will work through my committee assignment on the House Homeland Security Committee to see that all appropriate measures are taken to ensure our country is safe from those that wish to harm it. We must act on the current intelligence we have on Al Qaeda to ensure we don't lose sight of the mission: to end terrorist cells and organizations throughout the world. I will work hand-in-hand with the Administration, the U.S. Armed Forces, the CIA and our international intelligence community to keep our people, country and allies safe. "I thank President Obama and his National Security Team for his diligent efforts in bringing Osama Bin Laden to justice. I stand with the many families who lost their loved ones during the September 11, 2001, attacks and pray for our country’s well being. "While we have eliminated the head of Al Qaeda, we have yet to eliminate global terrorism. I will continue to work with our domestic and international partners to gather intelligence on those that wish to harm us, while ensuring the well being and safety of our country, families and communities." -U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar
04.29.2011	Laredo, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that the Laredo Fire Department will receive $3,887,964 in federal funds from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to hire 30 new full time frontline firefighters. The new personnel will provide a minimum of four firefighters on scene per fire call, enhancing the Laredo Fire Department’s abilities to comply with staffing, response and operation standards established by the NFPA and OSHA. These funds will increase EMS effectiveness and the overall safety of the community. “The men and women of the Laredo Fire Department perform selfless acts of courage to protect and serve our community,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will help keep our community safe by providing a higher number of trained personnel to serve our ever growing population and their needs. I thank the Laredo Fire Department and the City of Laredo for their diligent efforts in helping me guide this grant to Laredo. ” The U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) awards competitive grants to enhance response capabilities of fire departments that are not affiliated with a hospital. Approximately 16,000 fire departments across the country applied for the grant and only 18% were awarded. Out of more than 300 awards distributed across the country, the Laredo Fire Department grant ranks in the top 20 in terms of monetary value. “I want to thank all those who contributed to the successful outcome of the grant project,” said Fire Chief Steve Landin. “It was truly a team effort. There’s no doubt the real winner is the community of Laredo.” The funds are obligated through the hiring section of the AFG’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Grants (SAFER). The grant will help the department meet safety requirements and staffing needs. The lack of fire fighters in last year alone caused the department to spend over a million dollars in overtime pay. The newly hired personnel will also allow the city to lower the chances of casualties by providing more eyes during search and rescue operations. Finally, the increase in number of fire fighters will allow the department to spend more time on pre-incident programs, such as those directed at educating children on proper fire prevention techniques. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
04.29.2011	The office of Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28, will host a service academy informational session for high school sophomores, juniors and seniors who are interested in attending one of our prestigious service academies. The session will include information about all of the academies and the nomination process for Congressman Cuellar’s office. Event: Service Academy Night Date: Monday, May 2, 2011 Time: 6 p.m. CST Location: Texas A&M International University Room: SC236 Laredo, TX 78041 For more information about the Service Academy Night, contact Service Academy Liaison, Pete Arguello, at (210) 271-2851. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
04.28.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) announced that new landmark standards set for the Federal Government will be released and will build upon a government efficiency law and customer service legislation he authored. President Obama on Wednesday signed Executive Order 12862 – Streamlining Service Delivery and Improving Customer Service, as required by Congressman Cuellar’s law, Public Law 111-352, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act. The President’s Executive Order also aligns with legislation authored by Congressman Cuellar in 2008, regarding raising customer service standards at the federal level. “Americans deserve responsive and friendly customer service from their federal government,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have always believed that improving customer service and creating more efficient government operations within agencies will provide the best profit and return for taxpayer dollars. This executive order builds upon my work on improving federal customer service and reinforces the importance of agencies integrating customer service into their goals.” The Executive Order signed on Wednesday requires that federal agencies create customer service plans, and that the plans be integrated into agencies specific customer service goals and annual agency performance plans and reports. Public Law 111-352, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act, also calls for those measures. The President’s Executive Order closely aligns with Congressman Cuellar’s legislation, H.R. 358 to improve customer service standards within the federal government, as well. While federal agencies do provide customer service, currently, the government is not tracking their performance to ensure that taxpayers are provided high-quality, customer-friendly and adequate services. “Government efficiency and improving the federal government’s customer service has been a priority since I was first elected to Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “One of the biggest concerns I’ve heard as I tour my district is that government doesn’t have adequate customer service standards. Taxpayers work hard for their money – when we create federal programs, it should be responsive to our citizen’s concerns. This is a step in the right direction for the federal government and customer service.” As Public Law 111-352, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act, continues to go through its implementation phase, Congressman Cuellar will continue to work on of H.R. 358, Federal Customer Service Enhancement Act, which he hopes to enact into law. The legislation would implement additional customer service criteria at the federal level. Background: Congressman Cuellar, a Ph.D. in Government, has long made improving federal government performance a priority during his tenure in Congress. Congressman Cuellar authored H.R. 2142, Government Performance and Results Modernization Act, which was signed into law by President Obama on January 4, 2011, and is now Public Law 111-352. The law requires federal agencies to assess their performance through establishing cross-cutting, ambitious goals that would increase efficiency and provide Congress and the public with necessary information to assess how the federal government is operating. In the past two decades, Executive departments and federal agencies evaluated their customer service improvements in order to put people first in government service. In 1993, a Presidential Memorandum was issued: “Conducting Conversations with America to Further Improve Customer Services.” Executive Order 12862 – Streamlining Service Delivery and Improving Customer Service is the latest initiative for the Obama Administration. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
04.27.2011	Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), Michael McCaul (R-TX), and Blake Farenthold (R-Corpus Christi), members of the U.S. House Homeland Security Committee, called on the Obama administration to increase the number of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) stationed in Texas to patrol the state's border with Mexico. Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The Texas UAV is assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas, however, shares 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370-mile boundary. “UAVs provide critical intelligence that allows law enforcement to detect and dismantle unlawful activity along the Southwest border, from the smuggling of drugs and humans to arms trafficking,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today’s UAV briefing in Corpus Christi affirmed that additional operations for non-maritime UAVs in Texas will only increase the capability of law enforcement to interdict crime, prosecute wrongdoers, and keep our communities safe.” "Texas needs more resources and we need them in close proximity to the border, not just along the coast. Not having a UAV based along the border has already hindered law enforcement operations that rely on this critical surveillance," said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee, during today’s visit to assess U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s UAV operations in Corpus Christi. “UAVs provide a vital force multiplier effect in securing our borders as Mexican drug cartels grow bolder by the day in their operations on both sides of the border. Federal, state, and local law enforcement need the cost effective and timely intelligence that Unmanned Aerial Vehicles can provide,” said Congressman Farenthold. Two UAV systems are on order as part of the H.R. 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill, to be delivered by the end of 2011. While the Department of Homeland Security has not determined where these systems will be assigned, Congressmen McCaul, Cuellar and Farenthold, in a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, urge DHS to station both in Texas along its border with Mexico. In addition to the vehicles, Congressmen McCaul, Cuellar and Farenthold urge DHS to increase the number of flight crews, training and ground operations needed to support the mounting requests for aerial surveillance missions. Both McCaul and Cuellar have lead bipartisan efforts in Congress to increase the use of technology to secure the US-Mexico border. The UAV stationed at Corpus Christi, a Guardian Maritime Variant delivered February 2011, carries unique technology used for maritime haze filtration. In addition it carries the same surveillance technology as used over land in a Predator-B. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.25.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced Texas will receive funding for education-related needs, as well as additional support to local school districts. The U.S. Department of Education will obligate funds today, allowing the Texas Education Agency (TEA) access to the funds. The state “will quickly make all funding available to Texas school districts” as stated on TEA’s application to the U.S. Department of Education. The funding will create and retain education-related jobs in the 28th District of Texas and throughout the state. The 28th District’s schools will receive $44,258,038 in federal funds. “In a time when most school districts across the state are faced with looming budget shortfalls, we must keep high quality teachers in our Texas classrooms. I worked tirelessly to ensure this funding reached our classrooms,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our Texas schoolchildren are our most important asset - we must look out for their educational needs and interests at all times.” During the 111th Congress, H.R. 1586, now Public Law 111-226, included the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act to help save education jobs ranging from states to individual schools. The law allocated $10 billion in federal funds to support education jobs this academic school year, including $830 million for Texas schools. These education dollars will keep classrooms staffed with teachers and other necessary education resources. The funds will be distributed according to the state formula of Title I funding. “I have heard from teachers, school administrators, parents and students who have expressed a dire need for adequate funding and support of Texas schools,” Congressman Cuellar said. “These funds will help as students prepare for final exams and teachers assemble their lesson plans for next year. I stand by every child, teacher, parent, support staff, school administrator and community leader as we work together to provide the resources to give our children the best education possible.” The National Education Agency estimates that 138,000 education jobs will be saved nationally. According to the Department of Education, Texas will save more than 13,200 jobs. Jobs funded under this program include those that provide educational and related services for early childhood, elementary, and secondary education. County/School Districts (In the 28th Congressional District of Texas) Total for TX28 using State Formula for Title I Atascosa $1,494,483 Jourdanton ISD $224,128 Charlotte $105,615 Lytle ISD $290,893 Pleasonton ISD $575,432 Poteet ISD $298,415 Bexar $1,688,307 East Central ISD $1,497,175 Randolph Air Force $191,132 Frio $597,909 Pearsall ISD $401,772 Dilley ISD $196,137 Guadalupe $3,682,040 Seguin ISD $1,212,226 Navarro ISD $256,140 Marion ISD $232,807 Schertz, Cibolo $1,980,867 Hidalgo $19,462,496 Hidalgo ISD $602,953 Mission ISD $2,771,987 McAllen ISD $4,194,908 Pharr-San Juan ISD $5,353,512 La Joya ISD $4,861,271 Sharyland ISD $1,677,865 Jim Hogg $218,984 Jim Hogg ISD $218,984 La Salle $237,206 Cotulla ISD $237,206 McMullen $40,774 McMullen ISD $40,774 Starr $3,035,866 Rio Grande ISD $1,854,990 Roma ISD $1,113,679 San Isidro ISD $67,197 Webb $11,760,810 Laredo ISD $4,325,537 United ISD $7,352,207 Webb CISD $83,066 Wilson $1,432,491 Floresville ISD $627,410 La Vernia ISD $489,622 Poth ISD $162,793 Stockdale ISD $152,666 Zapata $606,672 Zapata ISD $606,672 Total: $44,258,038 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
04.22.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar Serving the 28th District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives MEDIA ADVISORY April 21, 2011 Contact: Jose Borjon, Press Secretary Daniella Martinez, Assistant Press Secretary (202) 225-1640 ______________________________________________ CONGRESSMAN CUELLAR TO HOST FEDERAL BUDGET TOWN HALL A conversation with Congressman Henry Cuellar on reducing the deficit in a responsible way Laredo, Texas – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) will host a Budget Town Hall in the City of Laredo Council Chambers on Tuesday, April 26, 2011 at 10 a.m. During the discussion, Congressman Cuellar will explain the federal budget, including the national deficit and budget proposals for the 2012 fiscal year. This town hall will give constituents the opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with Congressman Cuellar to discuss their budget priorities for the 28th District of Texas and exchange ideas to responsibly reduce the deficit. Event: Our Federal Budget: A conversation with Congressman Henry Cuellar on reducing the deficit in a responsible way Date: Tuesday, April 26, 2011 Time: 10-11 a.m. Central Time Location: City of Laredo-Council Chambers 1110 Houston St. Laredo, Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
04.18.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced his new bill, the Tax Cuts for America Act of 2011, a legislative package that would support American families by providing permanent tax incentives and credits. “In order to create jobs and grow the American economy we must put more money in the pockets of hard-working families,” Cuellar said. “My constituents tell me that they need more money to invest, spend and save and the federal government can learn to do more with less.” H.R. 1601 would make permanent tax breaks for hard-working school teachers, active and reserve military personnel, charitable donations and state and local sales taxes: • Deduction for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers; • Employer-provided educational assistance; • Student loan interest deduction; • Treatment of military basic housing allowances under low-income housing credit; • Above-the-line deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses; • Employer Wage Credit for activated military reservists; • Deduction for State and local general sales; and • Enhanced charitable deduction for contributions of book inventories to public schools. In addition, the bill enacts educational tax credits and deductions, which include deductions for certain expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers. This particular provision supports teachers and other educators for expenses on amounts paid for books, supplies, computer equipment, or other education-related materials used in the classroom. “Our teachers incur costs everyday to support their professions,” Cuellar said. “I thank them for their dedication to their work of educating our children and this provision of the bill helps them deduct for expenses they may incur.” The tax package also includes higher education tax credits. Employer-provided educational assistance gives employers tax credits if they choose to aid employees seeking higher education. The bill also provides students with interest deductions on qualified student loans. This will support a large portion of students who are supporting their efforts to earn a higher education through loans. The bill also includes a provision that provides basic housing allowance payments made to military personnel and families for determining low-income housing tax credit eligibility, including two Texas bases. The bill includes Employer Wage Credit for Activated Military Reservists, which allows a small business employer to take credit for the differential wage payments if their employee is called to active duty with the Armed forces. “Every day, men and women of our armed forces put their lives at risk for the well being of our country,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Our military personnel serve our nation diligently. The employer wage credit for employees who are active duty members of the uniformed services will support their career in the military and within current employer’s small business.” The tax package allows businesses that make charitable contributions of book inventories to public schools to receive a deduction.
04.08.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus, applauded the agreement reached by the United States and Colombia on the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. The deal allows the United States to move products and goods freely to Latin American countries. President Obama welcomed Colombian President Juan Santos yesterday at the White House and the two took part in conversations over the trade agreement. “This agreement will create American jobs and continue our burgeoning economic growth,” Cuellar said. “Increasing trade not only provides American families with more affordable goods and services – it will also help services and manufacturing sectors drive job creation, estimated to increase domestic product by $2.5 billion. Exports in the first half of last year alone supported 10 million jobs and brought in $890 billion. Today, we live in a global market that is only growing larger.” The Colombia Agreement is unique in that 90% of Colombian goods already enter the U.S. duty free. When the Colombia Free Trade Agreement is fully implemented, Colombia will immediately eliminate most of its tariffs on U.S. exports, with all remaining tariffs phased out over 10 years time. With average tariffs on U.S. exports ranging from 7.4 to 14.6 percent, this will substantially increase U.S. exports. During the 110th Congress, Congressman Cuellar was one of 10 Democrats to vote against a resolution that delayed the consideration of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. “I have long awaited the announcement of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement and will work with Congress and the Executive Branch to move swiftly on its implementation,” Cuellar said. “This agreement with the United States ensures our country remains competitive on a global front – with countries like China and the European Union, which have sought partnerships with Colombia.” Recently, Chinese and European investors have visited Colombia to discuss building a city of as many as 250,000 people south of Cartagena. The city would include an industrial park to manufacture products for export throughout the Americas. The meeting between President Obama and Colombian President Santos is a step toward the U.S. joining other trade leaders who have deemed exports an important way to grow and sustain an economy. Congressman Cuellar, a long time supporter of trade, founded the bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC) in 2009. The CPTC is dedicated to building a bi-partisan coalition to advance international trade policy that keeps America competitive in the world.
04.08.2011	In preparation for a Republican shutdown of the federal government, today Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released information on how a government shutdown could affect taxpayers. “Over the last few weeks, I’ve worked diligently to avoid a government shutdown,” Cuellar said. “Such an event would adversely impact seniors, veterans and military families and those who have car payments, mortgage payments and out of pocket expenses on medical prescriptions. However, if a bipartisan agreement is not found, it is important to make constituents aware of available federal government services. It is my job as the U.S. Representative for the 28th District of Texas to provide information and resources for my constituents.” Tax Filers • Those filing paper tax returns would not receive tax refunds from the IRS, and many taxpayers would be unable to receive service from the IRS to help them meet their tax obligations. The 400 walk-in service centers throughout the country would be closed www.irs.gov Seniors • Social Security checks would be sent to beneficiaries • Services in field offices and processing centers will be limited • No new and replacement cards or updated earnings records will be processed • Disability determination services limited www.ssa.gov Military • Most Department of Defense budget planning and preparation would cease; military personnel would not receive paychecks during a funding lapse • Military operations in Afghanistan, Libya, and Iraq would continue www.defense.gov Veterans •Most of the Veterans Benefits Administration customer support services would be suspended • Medical services for veterans would continue to be available www.va.gov Federal Employees • About 12,325 federal employees in the 28th District of Texas would be affected by the government shutdown. They would not report to work at their respective federal jobs. www.opm.gov Businesses • No new approvals of Small Business Administration (SBA)-guaranteed loans for business working capital, real estate investment or job creation activities would occur • Inspections of stock brokers, receipt and publication of corporate financial disclosures, and routine oversight of financial markets by Federal agencies would cease • Agricultural export credit activity and other agricultural trade development and monitoring would cease. www.commerce.gov, www.treasury.gov www.sba.gov, www.usda.gov Communities, Cities and Municipalities • The Community Development Financial Institutions Fund would suspend its grants and technical assistance to communities across the country, delaying investments that finance businesses and create jobs in distressed neighborhoods. • Department of Commerce grant-making programs for economic development would cease, as would most payments by HUD’s Community Development Block Grant program to State and local governments. • Customer service would be reduced across the federal government. www.cdfifund.gov, www.hud.gov, Cuellar reassures taxpayers that his office will remain open to continue to provide essential services to his constituents. “While it’s still unclear whether my staff would be paid, it is clear that I must continue to provide essential constituent services to our area. Every community can count on my office being open -- we will continue our work, as usual,” Cuellar said. On Thursday, Congressman Cuellar voted to appropriate funds for military service members to ensure they continue to receive their paychecks in the event of a government shutdown. As a fiscal conservative, Congressman Cuellar also voted several times to prohibit Members of Congress from receiving a salary during a government shutdown. “Earlier this week, the Blue Dog Coalition sent a letter to President Obama asking Congress to find a bipartisan solution and keep the government from shutting down,” Cuellar said. “I renew that call today. American taxpayers are asking us to lead the way out of the recession and solve the debt crisis by working together to find common sense solutions—not play politics. A shutdown would hamper critical services and functions that tens of millions need to survive on a daily basis.” For more information on the government shutdown, visit the Office of Personnel Management at www.opm.gov. Attached is a memo that has more information on how a government shutdown would impact constituents of the 28th District of Texas.
04.06.2011	Today, U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, announced the Coalition’s call for a bipartisan budget compromise. On April 4, 2011, the Senior Leadership of the Blue Dog Coalition wrote a letter to President Barack Obama urging for a long term spending bill to prevent a government shutdown. “As we travel around our districts,” the Blue Dog leaders wrote, “we hear time and again from our constituents that they are tired of the overheated political rhetoric that is dominating both parties and want us to begin mature conversations about our long-term fiscal problems.” The letter emphasizes that the short-term bills that are currently keeping the government operating on a week by week basis are not only costly to taxpayers, but also create too much uncertainty for both the public and private sectors. “Fiscal responsibility remains my top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I want to work in a bipartisan fashion to make responsible cuts to get our fiscal House in order and restore economic prosperity.” Last week, Congressman Cuellar and his colleagues in the Blue Dog Coalition released the “Blue Dog Benchmarks for Fiscal Reform,” a set of targets for long term deficit reduction that includes cutting the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. “We need to have a serious conversation on both sides of the aisle about the nation’s fiscal future,” Cuellar said. “Rather than focusing on partisan ideological purity, we need to find a common sense middle ground that keeps the government operating and guarantees that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. As we move forward, I will continue to work to reach a bipartisan agreement.” Last month, Congressman Cuellar helped introduce H.R. 1043, the Reduce Unnecessary Spending Act, which gives the President and Congress the authority to cut wasteful spending out of large pieces of legislation. The savings from such cuts would be dedicated to deficit reduction. Congressman Cuellar is a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of United States Congressional Representatives from the Democratic Party who are dedicated to the financial stability and national security of the United States. They are united behind a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics which include representing the center of the House of Representatives. ###
04.04.2011	The National Taxpayers Union Foundation released a comprehensive legislative analysis concluding that legislation introduced or co-authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) during the 111th Congress (2009-2010) would have decreased federal spending by nearly $9 billion. The National Taxpayers Union Foundation (NTUF), a non-partisan advocate for taxpayers, conducted a thorough analysis of all legislation introduced or co-authored by every member of the 111th Congress. According to NTUF, Congressman Cuellar’s total legislative initiatives would have cut federal spending by $8,810,000,000. “Too often individual votes are singled out as a way to misrepresent a member's real record,” Cuellar said. “I appreciate efforts such as this from non-partisan groups to give a broader perspective. I am proud to have worked on government accountability and debt reduction since coming to Congress. And as this Congress progresses, I am committed to the taxpayers I represent to continue working to restore fiscal discipline to the federal budget.” One of Congressman Cuellar’s landmark bills, which he introduced during the 111th Congress, and became law last year, is H.R. 2142, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010. The law will create transparency and accountability by requiring federal agencies to establish performance goals that can be measured and reported to Congress and taxpayers. “The Government Performance and Results Modernization Act will save taxpayers millions of dollars in the next decade, and allow us to be more efficient and thoughtful in our spending process,” Cuellar said. “Better information yields better decisions. This law will help the country invest in what works, fix what doesn’t and eliminate the wasteful overlap.” Other bills Congressman Cuellar filed during the 111th Congress that would reduce spending are: H.R. 4255, Stop the Automatic Pay Raise for Members of Congress in Fiscal Year 2011 Act H.R. 5146, To provide that Members of Congress shall not receive a cost of living adjustment in pay during Fiscal Year 2011. H.R. 4871, Spending Reduction Act of 2010 The National Taxpayers Union is an independent, non-partisan advocate for taxpayers. NTU mobilizes elected officials and the general public on behalf of tax relief and reform, lowers and lessons wasteful spending, individual liberty, and free enterprise.
04.01.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) introduced legislation today that would transform the Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care Center in Harlingen, Texas, into a hospital. The bill would expand the health care center by adding in-patient accommodations, an urgent care center and caregiver support services including adult day-care. The legislation would also provide a full range of health care services for female veterans. This bill is an alternate way to secure a hospital by asking the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to include a project in the Strategic Capital Investment Plan of the Department of Veterans Affairs to expand the Department of Veterans Affairs medical facility in South Texas by adding the services mentioned above. Earlier this year, the VA opened the new $40 million Health Center in Harlingen to accommodate the needs of South Texans. The Health Center, which offers only outpatient care, was seen by Cuellar as a first step toward full-service health care to the region. “Establishing the health care center in South Texas was a major milestone for our veteran community,” Cuellar said. “It is not the end of the journey, but gets us a long way down the road to where we should be.” Congressman Cuellar, working closely with his colleagues in the Texas delegation, had long championed a VA Medical Center for South Texas. The closest VA facility is in San Antonio – a laborious trip for many patients suffering from chronic conditions. “Our bill will require the Secretary of Veteran Affairs to expand the current services offered at the health care center. By building upon our existing facility, we can bring the resources to get a hospital to the Rio Grande Valley area at the earliest possible date,” Cuellar said. Congressman Cuellar, who recently traveled to each of the 12 counties in the 28th District of Texas to host veterans issues forums, knows the importance of offering medical services to veterans close to home. “After speaking with hundreds of veterans, I am further convinced that establishing a hospital in South Texas is an obligation we have to the men and women that have served our country,” Cuellar said. “All veterans deserve convenient access to proper medical attention, and I will work for that cause.” Apart from offering in-patient care, the bill calls for urgent care and adult day-care to alleviate some of the stresses on veteran caregivers. Congressman Cuellar also included services such as preventative care for female veterans, who are the fastest growing segment of the veteran population. The bill is co-sponsored by Congressman Rubén Hinojosa of the 15th District of Texas and Congressman Blake Farenthold of the 27th District of Texas. Congressman Cuellar has requested a hearing before the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee.
04.01.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) introduced a new program to solicit ideas directly from the taxpayers on his top priorities in the 112th Congress: job creation and cutting the debt. “I spend most of my time talking directly to the taxpayers in my district, and one thing is certain: the constituents of the 28th District of Texas can generate innovative ideas to boost job creation and reduce the national deficit,” Congressman Cuellar said. “My teleconferences with small business owners and educators earlier this year demonstrated that the American people have many creative solutions to our national problems. I believe in direct communication and listening to the taxpayers about what they want, instead of telling them what they will get from the government.” To help speed the review process of the thousands of new ideas, Congressman Cuellar created two new e-mail accounts: jobs.creation.cuellar@mail.house.gov and reduce.debt.cuellar@mail.house.gov Congressman Cuellar will actively promote and publicize the new program and will work to get the best ideas on his legislative agenda. “Washington insiders have their voice heard every day,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am going to make sure that the voice of the taxpayer is heard as well. Small business owners and heads of households have plenty of experience balancing a budget and prioritizing. I am confident that we are going to get recommendations and suggestions that I can promote in the House.” A strong pro-business Member of Congress, Congressman Cuellar also helped pass the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act to establish a new community bank fund worth $30 billion to increase lending to small businesses looking to hire and expand their operations. Congressman Cuellar has also successfully implemented budget cutting initiatives such as performance-based budgeting, pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) and other government reform efforts to reduce spending and increase accountability for federal agencies.
03.22.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that banks have repaid 99% of disbursed funds from the successful Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), according to the Treasury Department. Taxpayers have recovered approximately $244 billion in TARP funds, including nearly half a billion dollars repaid last week. Banks under the Capital Purchase Program have repaid the American taxpayer. Including dividends and interest, Treasury estimates this will provide a lifetime profit of nearly $20 billion to taxpayers. “The half a billion dollars repaid last week, and 99 percent of the funds repaid by financial institutions who participated in TARP, are clear indicators that this program was successful,” Cuellar said. “Taxpayers made an investment to save the global financial markets. We avoided another Great Depression, and now taxpayers are getting their money back with interest.” The Troubled Asset Relief Program was created in 2008 to support struggling financial institutions to strengthen the financial sector during crisis and give relief to “troubled” assets that threatened to lead to widespread bank failures. TARP allowed the Treasury Department to purchase illiquid assets, such as mortgage backed securities, from banks to stabilize balance sheets and avoid further losses. Congressman Cuellar voted in favor of this legislation when it passed the House. TARP was signed into law by President George W. Bush in October 2008 and was a component of the government’s measures to address the subprime mortgage crisis and the resulting economic fallout. In an effort to avoid a global financial meltdown, a total of $245 billion was invested to banks throughout the nation under the TARP Capital Purchase Program to assist in direct financial support. “TARP will be remembered as one of the government’s most successful programs. TARP ensured economic stability and provided much-needed measures to advert a financial crisis,” Cuellar said. “With banks paying back money and financial industry leveling, I am confident this is another sign of our economy growing. We begin to see the light at the end of the tunnel, and although we have much more work to do to ensure long-term economic stability, we are on the right path.” ###
03.14.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced introduction of the Reduce Unnecessary Spending Act, a bill that will give Congress and the President important tools to cut wasteful spending and save taxpayer dollars. The Reduce Unnecessary Spending Act, H.R. 1043, is commonly referred to as a modified line-item veto. It gives the President and Congress the authority to identify and vote to cut specific provisions or earmarks included in larger pieces of legislation. Also known as “expedited rescission,” this proposal has bipartisan support and is a common sense tool to budget enforcement. Congressman Cuellar and the Blue Dog coalition introduced this legislation on March 11, 2011, and are original sponsors of today’s legislation. “The American people know that we need to cut wasteful, inefficient spending in order to restore fiscal responsibility and grow our economy,” Congressman Cuellar said. “With the authority to make specific cuts, we can eliminate wasteful projects such as the ‘Bridge to Nowhere’ without voting down the entire legislation. This requires legislative and executive cooperation and is a smart, responsible approach to reduce spending.” Specifically, H.R. 1043 ensures timely congressional consideration of cuts to non-entitlement spending when requested by the President. It preserves Congress’ constitutional prerogative by requiring that both the House of Representatives and the Senate approve a rescission request before it can become law. The bill also requires the President to submit the requests to Congress within 45 calendar days of signing the initial spending bill into law. Any savings from Congressional passage of a rescission approval will immediately go to deficit reduction.
03.11.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted a conference call with Superintendents and educators of the 28th District of Texas to address national and local education priorities, such as support for jobs in education and the recent budget items provided by the federal government. “More than 20 Superintendents and educators took part in today’s call, which highlighted important education initiatives that we have been working on to ensure Texas children have access to high quality education,” Cuellar said. Participating superintendents had a direct dialogue with Congressman Cuellar to discuss the best ways to sustain education-related jobs, the federal budget’s impact on local school districts, and the educational priorities in Texas. “We must remain in constant communication with our educational communities to learn of their needs and how we at the federal level can ensure priorities are being met to keep Texas teachers in the classrooms and Texas children learning,” Cuellar said. “I will continue to host these conference calls on a regular basis with educators and community leaders to ensure top education and the necessary resources are provided in our classrooms.” School districts participating in today’s conference call included: Marion ISD, Seguin ISD, Dilley ISD, Floresville ISD, Poteet ISD, Randolph ISD, Schertz-Cibolo-University ISD, United ISD, Laredo ISD, McMullen ISD, San Isidro ISD, Rio Grande City ISD, Roma ISD, Jim Hogg ISD, Pharr San Juan Alamo ISD, Sharyland ISD, Mission ISD, McAllen ISD, Hidalgo ISD and La Joya ISD.
03.11.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) hosted a conference call with Superintendents and educators of the 28th District of Texas to address national and local education priorities, such as support for jobs in education and the recent budget items provided by the federal government. “More than 20 Superintendents and educators took part in today’s call, which highlighted important education initiatives that we have been working on to ensure Texas children have access to high quality education,” Cuellar said. Participating superintendents had a direct dialogue with Congressman Cuellar to discuss the best ways to sustain education-related jobs, the federal budget’s impact on local school districts, and the educational priorities in Texas. “We must remain in constant communication with our educational communities to learn of their needs and how we at the federal level can ensure priorities are being met to keep Texas teachers in the classrooms and Texas children learning,” Cuellar said. “I will continue to host these conference calls on a regular basis with educators and community leaders to ensure top education and the necessary resources are provided in our classrooms.” School districts participating in today’s conference call included: Marion ISD, Seguin ISD, Dilley ISD, Floresville ISD, Poteet ISD, Randolph ISD, Schertz-Cibolo-University ISD, United ISD, Laredo ISD, McMullen ISD, San Isidro ISD, Rio Grande City ISD, Roma ISD, Jim Hogg ISD, Pharr San Juan Alamo ISD, Sharyland ISD, Mission ISD, McAllen ISD, Hidalgo ISD and La Joya ISD.
03.04.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that he has introduced the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) Act of 2011, H.R. 915, named after ICE special agent Jaime Zapata. The bill would enhance border security and reduce security threats by authorizing and appropriating funds for law enforcement units on the border. “I named this bill after ICE Agent Jaime Zapata out of respect for his service to our country and because he paid the ultimate sacrifice for the safety and security of us all,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I will push to move this bill through the legislative process in honor of his work, dedication and commitment to serving the United States of America in the Department of Homeland Security and Customs and Border Protection. “When it comes to maintaining border security, collaboration and cooperation are key. These BEST units can reduce border violence by improving information sharing between federal, state, local and international law enforcement agencies,” Cuellar said. BEST units may be comprised of Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, and other law enforcement agencies at the federal, state, tribal, local and international level. The units will have authority to investigate, apprehend and prosecute individuals engaged in drug trafficking, arms smuggling, human smuggling and trafficking, violence and kidnapping along borders. The bill, co-sponsored by Congressman Michael McCaul (TX 10), would also give Congress the ability to oversee authorization and appropriation of funds for the units, which previously was under the purview of the DHS. “As Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, I believe it is important that Congress has the ability to fund BEST units, so that they can continue to be successful combating border crime while cooperating and sharing information with federal, state, tribal, local and international agencies,” Congressman Cuellar said. "The BEST teams have been one of the success stories of the efforts to secure the border as the cartels have risen in power and become more violent," said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. "Agent Zapata died fighting this war on the front lines and I think it is appropriate that this coordinated effort bears his name." The first BEST team was based in Laredo. ICE establishes BEST units based on which areas are significantly impacted by border threats, the availability of law enforcement to participate, and the extent to which the threats are harmfully impacting the area. DHS/ICE will annually report on the effectiveness of the BEST as measured by crime statistics, to include violent deaths, incidents of violence, and drug related arrests. Special Agent Jaime Zapata Background: In July 2005, ICE, in partnership with CBP, as well as other federal, state, local and foreign law enforcement officials expanded its ongoing Border Crimes Initiative by creating a multi-agency initiative called Operation Blackjack (predecessor to the BEST), to address the increased violence along the Southwest border with Mexico. In 2006, DHS formally adopted the BEST initiative as a DHS task force in order to leverage federal, state, local, tribal and foreign law enforcement and intelligence resources in an effort to identify, disrupt, and dismantle organizations that seek to exploit vulnerabilities along the U.S. borders and threaten the overall safety and security of the American public. The BEST Act of 2011 has been referred to the House Committee on Homeland Security, which Congressman Cuellar is a member of. He also serves as the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, which has direct jurisdiction over border security. On February 15, 2011, ICE special agents Jaime Zapata and Victor Avila were ambushed by members of Mexican drug cartels in San Luis Potosi. The two ICE agents were traveling between Mexico City and Monterrey. Special Agent Zapata succumbed to his injuries, living in the southwest border his entire life. Special Agent Avila was shot is now recovering.
03.02.2011	The National Journal’s 2010 congressional vote ratings place Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) one of the most centrist Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar is the 26th most conservative Democrat in the 112th Congress and the 2nd most conservative Texas Democrat. Reporters and editors from the non-partisan magazine based ratings on key votes relating to economic, social, or foreign policy issues, gauging their votes from conservative to progressive. Of the 93 decisive votes scored for this report, Congressman Cuellar received a composite progressive score of 57.2, placing him in the 189th spot among 435 House Members. Cuellar stands in the 239th spot for his composite conservative score of 42.8. Cuellar’s scores on economic, social and foreign policy indicate an almost even balance and a strong independent voice. Cuellar was more conservative than 44% of his colleagues in both parties on key economic votes; more conservative than 39% of his colleagues on key social issues votes; and more conservative than 45% of his colleagues on key foreign policy votes. “I work hard to be an independent voice for the taxpayers I represent,” said Congressman Cuellar. “No one party is always right or always wrong. By working together and getting behind good ideas, we can meet the economic challenges and get our budget under control." “The 28th District is very diverse, but we all share the same values of border security, fiscal discipline and job creation," Cuellar continued. "In the coming months, I look forward to continue to fight for the interests of the taxpayers in the district, keep the economy moving forward and finding common sense solutions to the big problems facing our country."
03.02.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) voted in favor of H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011. The bill would terminate a law that would impose unreasonable burdens on small business, such as filing detailed Internal Revenue Service paperwork for every business transaction exceeding $600. “To create jobs and economic growth, we must remove cumbersome, hefty paperwork burdens on our small businesses. Ending this provision will promote business growth and investment throughout Texas and the nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Small business owners in my district have told me that the best way to create jobs is giving them a chance to grow without redundant government paperwork. This bill will do just that.” H.R. 4 is bipartisan and supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Small Business Association, National Federation of Independent Businesses, American Farm Bureau Association, American Medical Association, National Association of Enrolled Agents, Associated General Contractors, among 175 other organizations. “Our nation relies on small businesses. At a time when our economy begins to recover, this bill will help it move faster by removing burdensome requirements that will not aid economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill passed by a bipartisan vote of 314 to 112.
03.01.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) outlined provisions in H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, which funds the federal government through March 4 and was passed by a majority in the House of Representatives late last week, which could affect senior citizens and the elderly in receiving their benefits or services throughout the nation and in the 28th Congressional District of Texas. “Our most vulnerable, the elderly and senior citizens could be at risk of losing benefits and not receiving the needed services because of the serious cuts in the Continuing Resolution,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It would be detrimental not only to them but to our growing economy if these cuts went through. With more than 100,000 Social Security recipients in the 28th Congressional District of Texas, I must stand for them and their families and do everything in my reach to ensure these cuts do not go through.” In Texas, the cuts included in the Continuing Resolution would negatively impact: • 40,538 applications for Social Security benefits for retirement, disability and survivors from being processed • 13,904 disabled workers from being able to appeal their benefit denials • 89,359 babies and their families from being assigned Social Security numbers • 289,465 people from visiting a Social Security office for help and find the lights off and the doors locked • 191,148 people from calling a Social Security office and getting no answer The cuts included in the Continuing Resolution would cost 187 people their jobs, while costing the local economy $10.3 million. Impact on taxpayers Social Security periodically reviews cases to make sure that beneficiaries are still entitled to benefits and are receiving the right amount. Even though these reviews only find overpayments in a small percentage of cases, they generate a very high return on Social Security’s investment in fighting waste, fraud, and abuse. If the proposed cuts go through in Texas: • 2,172 fewer Social Security disability cases would be reviewed for medical improvement. These reviews save $10 for every dollar Social Security spends performing them • 13,459 fewer Supplemental Security Income (SSI) cases would be reviewed to make sure recipients aren’t over the income limit. These reviews save $7 for every dollar Social Security spends performing them
03.01.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the McCoy Water Supply Corporation has been awarded federal funding, totaling $5,998,600, from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development for water development projects that will benefit constituents of Atascosa, Wilson and Live Oak Counties. The McCoy Water Supply Corporation will receive a loan of $3,593,000 and a grant of $2,405,600 for water development projects that will be used for improvements on five of the plant sites and to acquire two new hydro-pneumatic plants. These improvements and additions will add approximately 106,000 linear feet of distribution lines to ensure that water capacity and pressure issues set by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Standards are met. “In today’s challenging economic times, these funds will have a tremendous positive impact in the lives of residents of the 28th District of Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Water is a precious resource that many of us take for granted, and it is only in times when it is scarce, that we realize the importance of it. I thank Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development Texas State Director, for his support of the many water projects that better the lives of Texans and their families.” Currently, the McCoy Water Supply Corporation serves 2,221 connections in South Texas. With this additional funding, more connections are expected, which will provide water for more residents in the area. Further details will be announced by Dallas Tonsager, Under Secretary for U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural the Development, on March 14 in McCoy, Texas.
02.28.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) warned the serious impact provisions of H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, which funds the federal government through March 4 and was passed by a majority in the House of Representatives late last week, could have on veterans throughout the nation and in 28th Congressional District of Texas. Among other cuts, HR1 slashes funding for the HUD/VA Supportive Housing Program - a cooperative effort between the Veterans Affairs Department (VA) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) that has been effective in providing a small element of stability in the lives of military veterans – a population that has experience a spike in homelessness in recent years. At least 75,000 veterans were homeless on a single January night and a total of 136,334 veterans spent at least one night in an emergency shelter or transitional housing, according to a 2009 report. Texas is among one the states that has been particularly hit by this rise in veterans’ homelessness: the Annual Homeless Assessment Report found that nearly half of homeless veterans were located in California, Texas, New York and Florida, while only 28 percent of all veterans were located in those same four states. In the last year, Texas received $880 million in HUD/VASH funds to combat this problem. “As many as 240 homeless veterans in the Laredo-area alone could lose their housing assistance program due to the cuts passed in the Continuing Resolution,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our veterans have served this country with dignity, honor and respect, and we cannot fail them. Our veterans should not have to worry where they will sleep today or tomorrow or if they will have a home or shelter in the days and weeks to come.” An estimated 57 percent of homeless veterans were staying in emergency shelters and the remainder currently living on the streets or abandoned buildings. Included in these figures are a substantial portion of younger veterans from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars – many battling drug and PTSD issues. The VA has been charged to reach the goal of ending homelessness among veterans in five years, and this one program—HUD/VA Supportive Housing – offered housing vouchers for more than 10,000 veterans across the nation in the past year and another 20,000 since 2008. HUD informed Congress last year that more than 60,000 vouchers would be required to respond to the urgent need of ending homelessness among veterans. “As long as there are veterans sleeping in shelters, cars, and on the streets, we must do all humanly possible to continue to fund this program and help our heroes of war emerge from these hardship times,” Congressman Cuellar said.
02.24.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced he voted to prevent 22 police officers with the Laredo Police Department from losing their jobs by supporting an amendment to H.R. 1, the Full-Year Continuing Resolution Act of 2011. The amendment ensures $298 million are made available to the COPS Hiring program across the nation, including the 28th Congressional District of Texas. “We must continue to provide our local law enforcement agencies in Texas with the resources they need to hire highly trained and qualified police officers and personnel that can protect our children, young and elderly while providing families in the 28th District of Texas peace of mind,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I supported the amendment to protect the COPS Hiring program because it makes the City of Laredo and cities around the nation safer places for people to live, work and visit.” Late last week, Congressman Cuellar voted to restore the funding to the COPS Program after it was stripped from the Continuing Resolution. The COPS Hiring program (CHP) is a competitive grant program that provides funding directly to state and local law enforcement agencies nationwide to hire or rehire full-time sworn officers to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. CHP grants provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and fringe benefits for three years (36 months) for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions, or for rehired officers who have been laid off or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date as a result of local budget cuts. Although Congressman Cuellar stood to ensure the COPS Hiring Program was not eliminated in the Continuing Resolution, the overall COPS Program was cut by $203 million. The areas of the COPS Program that could be affected by the cuts are the: --Technology Program, a targeted program that provides direct funding for the continued development of technologies and automated systems to assist in investigating, responding to, and preventing crime; --Methamphetamine Initiative, a targeted funding initiative that provides direct funding to establish and enhance a variety of problem-solving strategies that will encourage community policing efforts that combat the use and distribution of methamphetamine; --Coordinated Tribal Assistance Solicitation, provides American Indian and Alaska Native communities to enhance law enforcement, bolster justice systems, prevent youth substance abuse, address violence against women, serve crime victims, and support other efforts to combat crime; --Community Policing Development, provides over $7 million directly to the law enforcement field to develop innovative strategies that advance the practice of community policing; The nine programmatic priority focus areas are: · Role of Law Enforcement in Homeland Security · Recruitment and Hiring · Offender Re-Entry and Alternatives to Incarceration · Ethics and Integrity · Drugs · Urban Violence · Children Exposed to Violence · School Based Policing · Tribal Policing --Child Sexual Predator Program, this funding allows recipients the opportunity to establish and/or enhance strategies to locate, arrest, and prosecute child sexual predators and exploiters and to enforce state sex offender registration laws; --Secure Our Schools Program, this funding will allow recipients the opportunity to establish and enhance a variety of school safety equipment and/or programs to encourage the continuation and enhancement of school safety efforts meant to prevent school violence within their communities; --Tribal Meth, this program will fund tribes for up to $200,000 to develop or support enhanced tribal-level coordination, and establish and implement tribe-specific action plans to address the health and safety issues of methamphetamine in Indian Country; and --Safe Schools Initiative, COPS Safe Schools Initiative grants provide funding to state and local agencies to assist in delinquency prevention, community planning and development, school safety resources, and technology development. This funding will allow recipients the opportunity to establish and enhance a variety of school and community safety equipment and/or programs to encourage the continuation and enhancement of child welfare efforts within their communities.
02.23.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that he has introduced the Federal Customer Service Improvement Act, HR 538, which will enhance federal services by setting in place standards for agencies to increase the quality of customer service. “Federal agencies serve the public just like businesses serve customers. Improving customer service in federal agencies is long overdue,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Americans call on our federal agencies daily without any set or accessible standards to excellent customer service. As lawmakers, we need to ensure that federal employees have incentives and Americans are provided quality service.” The bill requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop performance measures to determine whether federal agencies are providing high quality customer service. It would also set in place standards for federal agencies to increase the quality of customer service to Americans. “This bill will raise the level of attention given to how the federal government interacts with the American people. It is common sense legislation that will have positive ramifications throughout the country.” The legislation also includes specific incentive provisions, including a stipulation to publicly recognize employees for exemplary customer service. “It’s a win-win. Government employees receive incentives and encouragement to provide excellent customer service and the public is satisfied with every interaction with agencies.”
02.17.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced the following results of the 2010 Census affecting the 28th district. Since 2000, the Texas population has grown by 20.6%. 89% of that growth was from non-Anglos. The Hispanic population grew at a rate of 41.8% Overall, the 28th district ranked sixth in overall growth in Texas congressional districts. A census is a periodic official count of the population. The Census Bureau conducts the census at 10-year intervals. At the conclusion of each census, the bureau uses the results for calculating the number of House memberships each state is entitled to have. While there are numerous other uses for census data, a second major use is for geographically defining state legislative districts TX 28 Redistricting Data County Population at April 2000 2010 Difference % Increase Atascosa 38,623 44,911 6,288 16.3% Bexar 1,392,935 1,714,733 321,798 23.1% Frio 16,252 17,217 965 5.9% Guadalupe 89,034 131,533 42,499 47.7% Hidalgo 569,471 774,769 205,298 36.1% Jim Hogg 5,281 5,300 19 0.4% La Salle 5,866 6,886 1,020 17.4% McMullen 851 707 (144) -16.9% Starr 53,597 60,968 7,371 13.8% Webb 193,117 250,304 57,187 29.6% Wilson 32,408 42,918 10,510 32.4% Zapata 12,182 14,018 1,836 15.1% Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. Sign up to receive Congressman Cuellar’s E-mail Newsletters Click here for Congressman Cuellar's Facebook, RSS Feed, Or YouTube Channel
02.15.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX- 28) released the following statement upon learning that two U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents of Homeland Security Investigations were shot outside Mexico City this afternoon. “I was deeply saddened to learn that two brave special agents had been shot in the line of duty in Mexico today. One of these agents is seriously injured and one has succumbed to his injuries. My thoughts and prayers remain with them, and with their families. “While all the facts are not yet clear, any attack on American law enforcement in the line of duty is an outrage and unconscionable. ICE agents and everyone who serves in our law enforcement community- stateside and abroad- deserve nothing but the utmost respect for their service and dedication to our national security. We maintain our safety as a nation based on their hard work and sacrifices. We must persecute those responsible to the full extent of the law, while continuing to support institutions that combat criminal elements. “Today, I served as Ranking Member in a hearing called ‘Securing Our Borders – Operational Control’ in the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, for the Homeland Security Committee. I am hopeful that today’s discussion will lead to an improved path forward regarding effective border policies and practices, especially ensuring that the ‘bad guys’ don’t even make it to our borders. We in Congress must provide the Department of Homeland Security all the tools and resources it needs. “My deepest sympathies go out to the agents, their families and the law enforcement community at large and along the border.”
02.11.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the highly-anticipated launch of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition-An Artistic Discovery, a contest that year after year is a national showcase for local high school students’ artistic talent and creativity. “The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful opportunity for high school students in my congressional district to demonstrate their artistic talent and ability,” said Cuellar. “I encourage students to participate and proudly represent their high schools in this prestigious competition.” Eleazar Garcia Jr., a senior from Roma High School, in Roma Texas, took his prized pre-Hispanic themed painting all the way to Washington D.C., and it was set on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Congressman Cuellar’s district offices in San Antonio, Seguin, Laredo, Rio Grande City and Mission are currently accepting artwork submissions. Students interested in participating may obtain forms from their respective high school art instructors or contact Congressman Cuellar’s office at 1-877-780-0028. The deadline for artwork submission in the district is April 08, 2011. The Congressional Art Competition is held each spring and is sponsored by the Members of Congress. It has attracted over 650,000 high school students nation-wide since its inception in 1982.
02.08.2011	U.S. Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn (R-Texas), along with Congressman Henry Cuellar, (TX-28), released the following statements today after the Senate approved the nomination of U.S. Magistrate Judge Diana Saldaña of Laredo to be District Court Judge for the Southern District of Texas: “I’m glad that we can come together in the spirit of bipartisanship and help work the heavy caseload we have on the border. Judge Saldaña exemplifies the type of person we need to serve in the demanding courts of the Southern Judicial District of Texas,” said Cuellar. “She is a hard-working, talented and intelligent woman with an impressive legal trajectory who will serve the people of Laredo and surrounding areas with dedication and discipline.” “I am pleased the Senate recognized Judge Diana Saldaña’s outstanding qualifications and has confirmed her for this important post in the Southern District of Texas. She has extensive judicial experience and has handled a caseload of critical issues, ranging from immigration to narcotics to health care. Judge Diana Saldaña’s academic and professional credentials and her breadth of experience will serve her well on the federal bench in Laredo ,” said Hutchison. “I am pleased the Senate has overwhelmingly confirmed the nomination of Judge Diana Saldaña of Laredo to serve as a United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas and congratulate her on this significant achievement. It is just the latest in a long line of accomplishments for Judge Saldaña, whose life story and career stand as an inspiration for many,” Cornyn said. “Her journey from summers spent working as a migrant farmer beginning when she was 10 years old, to becoming the first in her family to earn a college degree, and now being nominated by the President to serve as a federal judge truly exemplifies the American dream. I was proud to have recommended her to the President for this nomination and look forward to seeing her continue to succeed and serve Texans with distinction in this new role.” Ms. Saldaña, 39, hails from Carrizo Springs , Texas , and currently resides in Laredo with her husband, Roberto Arredondo. She received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Texas in 1994 and earned her law degree from the University of Texas in 1997. Ms. Saldaña began her legal career as a law clerk to Chief Judge George Kazen of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas. She then worked as a staff attorney for the General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Agriculture before transferring to the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. From 2000-2001, Ms. Saldaña worked as an associate at Beirne, Maynard & Parsons, LLP in Houston . She then joined the U.S Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Texas as an Assistant U.S. Attorney. Ms. Saldaña handled approximately 350 active cases a year, heading up the Human Trafficking Task Force and the Anti-Gang Task Force. In 2006, Ms. Saldaña was sworn in as a U.S. Magistrate Judge for the Southern District of Texas, Laredo Division. As a Magistrate Judge, Ms. Saldaña has handled thousands of illegal entry pleas and sentencings and has presided over thousands of criminal proceedings. She has one published opinion: Eliserio v. Floydada Housing Auth., 455 F.Supp.2d 648 (S.D. Tex. 2006).
02.07.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that women-owned small businesses can begin taking steps to participate in a new federal contracting program under the U.S. Small Business Administration. The new Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Federal Contract Program will be implemented over the next several months, with the first contracts expected to be awarded by the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. The WOSB Federal Contract Program will provide greater access to federal contracting opportunities f or WOSBs and economically-disadvantaged women-owned small businesses (EDWOSBs). The Program allows contracting officers, for the first time, to set aside specific contracts for certified WOSBs and EDWOSBs and will help federal agencies achieve the existing statutory goal of five percent of federal contracting dollars being awarded to WOSBs. “As our economy continues to recover, we must provide emerging small business with the tools they need to be successful and to take their business to the next level,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This program is a great boost for women-owned small businesses to equal access in contracting opportunities and increases chances of winning federal contracts. America’s women-owned businesses can lead to further job creation and flourish in this demanding time.” To be eligible for the program, a company must be a small business that is at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned and controlled by one or more women who are U.S. citizens. To be deemed “economically disadvantaged”, a firm’s owners must meet specific financial requirements set forth in the program regulations.
02.04.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) released the following statement on the January jobs report, which showed that the the unemployment rate dropped to 9 percent and that 36,000 jobs were added last month. “Getting South Texans back into the work force continues to be my highest priority, so the job report showing that January marks 11th month of private sector growth is great news,” said Congressman Cuellar. “‘Slow and steady wins the race’ when it comes to rebuilding the economy and Congress must act responsibly to create an environment for consistent job creation. We need to make sure every action we take in Congress leads to a stronger middle class and a reduced deficit.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.31.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced his committee assignments for the 112th Congress. He will continue to serve as an active member on the Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Congressman Bennie Thompson, Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member, named Congressman Cuellar as Ranking Member of the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee, making him the most influential Democrat within the subcommittee. In the 111th Congress, he served as chairman of the subcommittee, formerly called the Border Maritime and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee. “Protecting our nation and our border communities have been longstanding priorities of mine. I’m proud to have been chosen for this prestigious position and look forward to continuing the important work as part of the subcommittee,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am glad Congressman Cuellar has returned to be the Democratic voice on the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee. Rep. Cuellar’s experience in homeland security and border issues will be invaluable this Congress as we further work towards protecting the homeland and securing our borders,” said Congressman Bennie Thompson. Congressman Cuellar will also be a member of the Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee, which deals mostly with the handling of Department of Homeland Security intelligence as well as counterterrorism strategies. Congressman Cuellar will remain as the sole Democrat from Texas on the Agriculture Committee and will rejoin the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Research, Biotechnology, and Foreign Agriculture. This subcommittee has jurisdiction over legislation regarding rural development, farm security and family farming matters, research, education and extension, biotechnology, foreign agriculture assistance and trade promotion programs. “Serving on this committee will further enable me to make sure the agricultural community along the border and our South Texas farmers have their voice heard in Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees. Job creation, accessibility to constituents, education, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Vice Chairman of the Steering and Policy Committee, Senior Whip, and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.25.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress: "Tonight, the President renewed his commitment to continue rebuilding the nation’s economic strength. By doing so, we must focus on saving the jobs we already have and create new ones. "The American people want Democrats and Republicans to work together to create jobs, strengthen the middle class, and reduce the deficit. We must do everything that we can to deliver on all three. "Also, as Chairman of the Pro-Trade Caucus, I applaud the President’s commitment to trade and American competitiveness as a way to create economic growth and reduce unemployment. "My constituents continue to tell me that promoting economic growth and creating jobs should be the top issues for both Congress and President Obama. I intend to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress to get the job done for the American people." ###
01.18.2011	In the spirit of bipartisanship, Congressmen Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) and Michael McCaul (R-TX-10) will sit side-by-side next Tuesday as President Barack Obama delivers his State of the Union address. "For the sake of those we represent, we must work hand in hand," said Congressman Cuellar. "This is why Congressman McCaul and I have agreed to sit next to each other at the President's State of the Union. We need to show the nation that in order to move this country forward, we must all work side-by-side." "This is more than symbolism," said Congressman McCaul. "Henry and I have worked together to build bipartisan consensus on several important issues, particularly those related to the use of technology to secure our borders." Congressman Cuellar, a strong believer in bipartisanship, said it is OK to cross over to the other aisle and sit next to whom he calls his good friend in Congress. "Congressman McCaul and I have been working together for several years on issues that affect our constituents, and we are two members of Congress who have agreed to disagree, but always keeping the best interest of our constituents in mind," said Congressman Cuellar. "You can be civil and productive at the same time." "We disagree on some issues, but we don't let those get in the way of working together in areas where we share common ground," Rep. McCaul said. "I hope more of our colleagues will take the same approach to finding solutions to our greatest challenges." President Obama will deliver the State of the Union address Tuesday, January 25, at 9 p.m. EST
01.11.2011	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that he has filed his first bill of the 112th Congress, HJ Res. 10, which calls for a Constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget. This bill requires Congress to produce a balanced budget every fiscal year and requires the President to submit a balanced budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress. It also protects Social Security benefits, ensuring that our most vulnerable are not subject to a reduction in their guaranteed benefits when they need them the most. "Families in South Texas make tough decisions every day about their budgets. Congress should learn a lesson from them about how to live within its means," said Congressman Cuellar. "Reducing the national debt is not only critical for our community’s economic recovery—it’s critical for future generations of Americans. This bill sets the tone for the important work on fiscal responsibility I aim to accomplish in the 112th Congress." Forty-nine states currently require an annual balanced budget, and an amendment to the Constitution will finally hold the federal government to the same, commonsense standard. "We cannot afford to short-change young Americans and future generations-- who will undoubtedly face higher taxes and cuts to federal investments in priorities such as education, transportation and national security, if the budget fails to be managed," said Congressman Cuellar. Last week, Congressman Cuellar’s bipartisan legislation to increase government efficiency, H.R. 2142, was signed into law by the president. The Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 is a landmark move toward increasing transparency and accountability by requiring federal agencies to establish performance goals that can be measured and reported to Congress and taxpayers. In 2010, Congressman Cuellar helped pass statutory Pay-As-You-Go legislation to reestablish spending rules for Congress to rein-in federal spending, draw down the nation’s debt and restore the fiscal discipline of the 1990s when deficits were turned into record-setting surpluses. PAYGO rules last expired in the House in late 2002. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.05.2011	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (Texas 28th District) was sworn into his fourth two-year term in the United States Congress. “These last several years have been extremely challenging for Texas families,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It’s crucial that the 28th Congressional District has a strong voice in our nation’s capital, and I am humbled and honored for being allowed to go back to Washington and continue fighting for hard-working Texas families.” Congressman Cuellar was first sworn in as a member of Congress in January 2005. “I am going back to Washington with three things in mind: We need to create more jobs. We need to reduce the deficit. And we need to strengthen the middle class,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Working in a bi-partisan way, we will accomplish all three.” He previously served as Texas Secretary of State and for 14 years in the Texas House of Representatives. During his six years in office, Congressman Cuellar’s key legislative priorities have been strengthening border security, making healthcare accessible to all, and fiscal responsibility. “I will continue my quest to ensure that wasteful government spending is a thing of the past,” added Congressman Cuellar. “We need a government that is more accountable and transparent.” The Speaker of the House led today’s traditional swearing-in ceremony on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar recited the oath that every Member of Congress has sworn since 1884: “I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God.”
01.05.2011	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) announced that he has returned to Washington D.C. and is ready to work on the challenges facing the nation, including job creation. The Republican majority is keeping Congress out of session until the third week of January. “We cannot afford to wait any longer to resolve the problems that the American people are facing,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The people I represent in Congress do not have the luxury to put their lives on hold for two or three weeks until Congress goes to session.” “As their voice in Congress, we need to get to work now and come up with solutions instead of obstructions. We need to work to reignite the American dream and make sure that we strengthen the middle class and those who are willing to work hard by offering them opportunities instead of barriers,” said Congressman Cuellar. House Democratic conferees are currently working hard to reach a bipartisan deal on the payroll tax cut, unemployment benefits and the Medicare doctors’ fee fix that will extend these initiatives for the remainder of the year. Congressman Cuellar encouraged the conferees to move forward on efforts to secure these extensions that if secured, will boost job creation and grow the economy.
12.31.2010	The next effective date of benefits of health reform is coming up. Here are some of the key provisions that will take effect on January 1, 2011: FREE PREVENTIVE CARE FOR SENIORS—Under reform, beginning on January 1, 2011, the more than 40 million seniors in Medicare will begin receiving significant savings by getting preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies, and an annual wellness visit, without copayments, coinsurance, or deductibles. 50% DISCOUNTS FOR SENIORS WITH HIGH PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS—Under reform, beginning on January 1, 2011, those millions of seniors whose drug costs are so high that they end up in the Medicare Rx drug ‘donut hole’ coverage gap will begin getting a 50% discount on brand-name drugs in the donut hole, with growing discounts in future years until the donut hole is completely eliminated in 2020. REQUIRING INSURANCE COMPANIES TO SPEND MORE ON MEDICAL CARE AND LESS ON EXECUTIVE PAY AND PROFITS—Beginning on January 1, 2011, health reform requires health insurance companies to spend at least 80 to 85 percent of consumers’ premium dollars on medical care and quality improvement, instead of on profits and such overhead costs as executive compensation and advertising. In addition, under reform, insurance companies are required to pay rebates to consumers if they fail to meet that standard. These new requirements will also bring a whole new level of transparency to the health insurance marketplace and hold the insurers accountable. KEY PROVISIONS ALREADY IN EFFECT: THE PATIENT’S BILL OF RIGHTS: NO RESCISSIONS—Bans all health plans from dropping people when they get sick. NO DISCRIMINATION AGAINST CHILDREN WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS—Prohibits all employer plans and new plans in the individual market from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. COVERAGE FOR YOUNG ADULTS UP TO AGE 26—Requires insurers to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance policy, at the parents’ choice. NO LIFETIME LIMITS—Prohibits all health plans from placing lifetime limits on coverage. ANNUAL LIMITS PHASED OUT—Phases out the use of annual limits on coverage by health plans over the next three years. FREE PREVENTIVE CARE FOR THOSE IN NEW PLANS—Requires new plans to cover preventive services such as mammograms and colonoscopies without copayments, coinsurance, or deductibles. RIGHT TO INDEPENDENT, THIRD PARTY APPEALS PROCESS IN NEW PLANS—Requires new plans to provide consumers the right to appeal the plan’s denial of coverage to an independent third party. Other key provisions: SMALL BUSINESS TAX CREDITS—Offers tax credits of up to 35 percent of employer premium contributions (rising to 50 percent in 2014) for those small businesses that choose to offer coverage. IMMEDIATE HELP FOR THE UNINSURED WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS —Provides immediate access to insurance for Americans who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition – through the establishment of Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plans in each state. These plans will exist until the Exchanges are up and running in 2014. HELP FOR EARLY RETIREES—Provides a temporary re-insurance program (until the Exchanges are available) for employer health plans providing coverage for early retirees, helping to protect coverage while reducing premiums for employers and these early retirees age 55-64. HOLDS INSURANCE COMPANIES ACCOUNTABLE FOR UNREASONABLE RATE HIKES—Provides grants to support states in requiring health insurance companies to subject justification for requested premium increases. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS—Increases funding for Community Health Centers to allow for nearly doubling the number of patients served over the next 5 years.
12.21.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that his bipartisan legislation to increase government efficiency, H.R. 2142, was passed in the House today, with a vote of 216-139. The bill, which creates a system for sweeping reforms to reduce wasteful spending, will now go on to be signed into law by the president. The Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 is a landmark move toward increasing transparency and accountability by requiring federal agencies to establish performance goals that can be measured and reported to Congress and taxpayers. "No one can afford to waste money- especially not the government and especially not now," said Congressman Cuellar. "It’s time that we put a new system in place to review the results of each federal program and evaluate its effectiveness. Better information yields better decisions. This legislation will help Congress invest in what works, fix what doesn’t and eliminate the wasteful overlap. Redundancy at a time when so many Americans are struggling to make ends meet isn’t just a waste of resources- it’s shameful." The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reported that H.R. 2142 could lead to more efficient and cost-effective management of government and could be implemented at $15 million per year, half the expected cost, from 2011 through 2015. Congressman Cuellar’s performance-based budgeting bill is a major part of the Blue Dog Coalition’s Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform. Taxpayers for Common Sense, Center for American Progress Action Fund and Robert Shea, Associate OMB Director under President George W. Bush also support H.R. 2142. Senator Mark Warner led the efforts to get legislation through the Senate, which passed the Cuellar-authored bill with a bipartisan amendment from Sens. Lieberman (I-CT), Carper (D-DE), Collins (R-ME), Voinovich (R-OH) and Akaka (D-HI). Senator Tom Coburn (R-OK) also added an enforcement mechanism that provides for increasingly stringent requirements for agencies that do not meet performance goals. "At a time of budget deficits and almost overwhelming national debt, this legislation requires several significant steps that will make government work smarter even as it requires federal agencies to aggressively look for more ways to save taxpayer money," Senator Warner said. "This legislation also takes a first step in supporting a key recent recommendation from the President’s fiscal commission to require better data to help us identify overlapping federal programs." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.17.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the extension of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts passed Congress last night, with a vote of 277-148. The bill now goes on to be signed into law by the president. “I am thankful that my colleagues in Congress came together and realized that raising taxes would be an inappropriate burden for hardworking American families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “An extension of these tax cuts will help generate economic growth by making available to job-creating small businesses the capital to expand and invest in new ventures.” CBO estimates suggest that extending the Bush era tax cuts- which were set to expire on Dec. 31, 2010- for all Americans, could reduce unemployment to below 9% and generate economic growth of 0.6 to 1.7 % of GDP. Unemployment benefits were also renewed in the bill, ensuring that under federal programs, the unemployed can receive benefits beyond the 26 weeks that individual states provide. The extended benefits expired Nov. 30. “With so many American struggling to find employment to provide for their families, extending their benefits simply had to be done,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In light of the nation’s long term fiscal challenges, we must carefully balance efforts for growth with concerns regarding deficit reduction, but no reassessment should take place until the economy significantly improves. Congress must work together to find bipartisan ways to reduce our debt and create the growth that is essential to America’s future.” For all families making less than $250,000 a year, the bill permanently extends the 2001/2003 tax cuts, including current tax rates, marriage penalty relief, capital gains and dividends rates, and $1,000 child tax credit (for earnings above $3,000) Almost all small businesses-- 97%-- will benefit from the tax cuts. The bill also included deductions for state and local sales taxes in lieu of state income taxes for individuals, which will greatly benefit Texans. ###
12.10.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) issued the following statement in support of President Obama’s framework agreement on taxes: "Members of Congress across the political spectrum should agree to temporarily extend the tax cuts for every single American. Raising taxes would be an inappropriate burden for hardworking American families as we climb our way out of a deep recession, and would endanger our fragile economic growth. "Indeed, in the midst of our budding economic recovery, a substantial tax increase would discourage business investment and job creation, reduce consumer confidence and increase market uncertainty. "However, an extension would help generate economic growth by making available to job-creating small businesses the capital to expand and invest in new ventures. CBO estimates suggest that extending the Bush era tax cuts for all Americans could reduce unemployment to below 9% and generate economic growth of 0.6 to 1.7 % of GDP. "In light of the nation’s long term fiscal challenges, we must carefully balance efforts for growth with concerns regarding deficit reduction, but no reassessment should take place until the economy significantly improves. Congress must work together to find bipartisan ways to reduce our debt and create the growth that is essential to America’s future." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
12.09.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) has been named the Democratic co-chair or the Friends of the Job Corps Congressional Caucus for the 112th Congress. There is a Job Corps center in Congressman Cuellar’s district, in Laredo, Texas and before redistricting, the San Marcos Job Corps office was also in the 28th congressional district. Congressman Cuellar has also employed Job Corps interns in his congressional offices. For 45 years, Job Corps has been our nation’s premier dropout recovery program. Job Corps has helped over 2 million disadvantaged youth complete their high school education and transition into employment or higher education. The mission of the Friends of Job Corps Congressional Caucus is to heighten the awareness and appreciation for Job Corps among policymakers, Administration decision-makers and the broader public. In addition, the Friends of Job Corps Congressional Caucus will draw attention to the role Job Corps plays in the socio-economic well-being of local communities and the nation. "It is an honor to be chosen to lead the Friends of Job Corp Congressional Caucus, an organization I have supported for quite some time," said Congressman Cuellar. "Empowering our nation’s youth to achieve their educational goals has been a longstanding priority of mine and I look forward to the opportunities to further this aim in the co-chairman position." The goals and objectives of the Caucus include: Education through congressional briefings on current and emerging Job Corps issues; Communication by initiating a productive dialogue about the quality of services Job Corps provides to thousands of at-risk youth each year; Coordination by facilitating communication between Members, employers, youth service providers, Department of Labor representatives, and other private sector leaders that can strengthen Job Corps’ impact on America’s youth; and Enhancement of legislative efforts towards protecting and strengthening Job Corps. Today, the Job Corps model implemented at 122 centers across the nation remains out-of-school youths’ best chance for success. In a review of several comparable youth programs, Job Corps was found to have the greatest impact on participants' educational achievement and earnings. In recent program years, over 90 percent of Job Corps graduates have entered employment, higher education, or the military upon completion of the program. Job Corps’ consistent success is principally attributable to its focus on results and accountability and its responsiveness to the changing needs of both the economy and its students. As the nation navigates the shifting contours of our economy, Job Corps is poised to do its part to help ensure the shape of our economic future is positive. The Job Corps community is already gearing up to make a greater impact in two of the fastest growing sectors of our economy that are demanding new workers: the health care sector, and the green sector. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
12.03.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), announced that the House successfully passed the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which permanently extended income tax cuts for all income up to $250,000 a year. The bill now goes on to a vote in the Senate. A typical middle-class American family will save approximately $1,000 per year and the wealthiest 3% of Americans would actually receive an average tax cut of over $6,000 next year. and the wealthiest 3% of Americans would actually receive an average tax cut of over $6,000 next year. "American families simply cannot bear the additional burden of higher taxes in these tough economic times," said Congressman Cuellar. "Though I also support at least a temporary extension of tax cuts for Americans who earn more than $250,000, we had to act now to make sure that the middle class is protected. If Congress did not act, taxpayers at every income level would have been burdened with a hefty tax increase. A tax increase in a fragile economy would stunt the nation’s incremental growth by discouraging business investment and job creation, reducing consumer confidence and increasing market uncertainty." For all families making less than $250,000 a year, the bill permanently extends the 2001/2003 tax cuts, including current tax rates, marriage penalty relief, capital gains and dividends rates, and $1,000 child tax credit (for earnings above $3,000) Almost all small businesses-- 97%-- will benefit from the tax cuts—and of the 3% not guaranteed them, a significant portion are not what we consider "small businesses," since some hedge fund managers, investors, and super-wealthy individuals file as S Corporations or partnerships. What’s in the Bill: Two-year extension of alternative minimum tax ("AMT") relief. In order to ensure that middle-class taxpayers are able to enjoy the benefits of extending these tax cuts, the bill would extend AMT relief for nonrefundable personal credits and increasing the AMT exemption amount. This will protect more than 25 million families from the AMT. Permanent extension of marginal individual income tax rate reductions for middle-class taxpayers. The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") created a new 10-percent regular income tax bracket for a portion of taxable income that was previously taxed at 15 percent and reduced the other regular income tax rates of 28%, 31% 36% and 39.6% to 25%, 28%, 33%, and 35%, respectively. The bill would permanently extend the 10%, 25% and 28% rate brackets. The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") created a new 10-percent regular income tax bracket for a portion of taxable income that was previously taxed at 15 percent and reduced the other regular income tax rates of 28%, 31% 36% and 39.6% to 25%, 28%, 33%, and 35%, respectively. The bill would permanently extend the 10%, 25% and 28% rate brackets. Permanent reduced capital gains and dividend tax relief for middle-class taxpayers. The bill would make permanent the reduced rates on capital gain and dividend income for taxpayers with adjusted gross income. The bill would make permanent the reduced rates on capital gain and dividend income for taxpayers with adjusted gross income. Permanent extension of EGTRRA and ARRA improvements to child tax credit. EGTRRA doubled the value of the child tax credit from $500 to $1,000, allowed the child tax credit to be claimed against the alternative minimum tax, and enhanced the refundable child tax credit EGTRRA doubled the value of the child tax credit from $500 to $1,000, allowed the child tax credit to be claimed against the alternative minimum tax, and enhanced the refundable child tax credit Permanent extension of PEP and Pease relief for middle-class taxpayers. Prior to 2010, certain taxpayers were subject to limitations on the amount that they could claim with respect to itemized deductions (the "Pease" limitation) and personal exemptions (the "PEP" limitation). The bill would permanently set the threshold at which these limitations apply so that taxpayers with adjusted gross income under $200,000 ($250,000 for a married couple filing jointly), adjusted for inflation, would not be subject to these limitations. Prior to 2010, certain taxpayers were subject to limitations on the amount that they could claim with respect to itemized deductions (the "Pease" limitation) and personal exemptions (the "PEP" limitation). The bill would permanently set the threshold at which these limitations apply so that taxpayers with adjusted gross income under $200,000 ($250,000 for a married couple filing jointly), adjusted for inflation, would not be subject to these limitations. Permanent marriage penalty relief for middle-class taxpayers. A "marriage penalty" exists when the combined tax liability of a married filing a joint return is greater than the sum of the tax liabilities of each individual computed as if they were not married. Among other things, EGTRRA increased the basic standard deduction for a married couple filing a joint return to twice the basic standard deduction for an unmarried individual filing a single return. The bill would permanently extend this tax relief. A "marriage penalty" exists when the combined tax liability of a married filing a joint return is greater than the sum of the tax liabilities of each individual computed as if they were not married. Among other things, EGTRRA increased the basic standard deduction for a married couple filing a joint return to twice the basic standard deduction for an unmarried individual filing a single return. The bill would permanently extend this tax relief. Permanent earned income tax credit simplification and increase. The bill would make permanent certain EGTRRA modifications and ARRA modifications to the earned income tax credit. The bill would make permanent certain EGTRRA modifications and ARRA modifications to the earned income tax credit. Permanent extension of education tax incentives. The bill would make permanent certain modifications to the suite of education tax incentives included in the EGTRRA The bill would make permanent certain modifications to the suite of education tax incentives included in the EGTRRA Permanent extension of tax benefits for families and children. The bill would make permanent certain tax benefits for families and children enacted in the EGTRRA, including: the maximum $13,170 adoption tax credit , the employee tax credit for employee child care, and the increased dependent care tax credit. The bill would make permanent certain tax benefits for families and children enacted in the EGTRRA, including: the maximum $13,170 adoption tax credit , the employee tax credit for employee child care, and the increased dependent care tax credit. Permanent extension of enhanced small business expensing. The bill would make permanent the increased small business expensing amounts set to expire at the end of 2010 that were enacted prior to the ARRA and prior to the "Small Business Jobs Act of 2010". The bill would make permanent the increased small business expensing amounts set to expire at the end of 2010 that were enacted prior to the ARRA and prior to the "Small Business Jobs Act of 2010". Congressman Cuellar on fiscal responsibility: The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 ("EGTRRA") created a new 10-percent regular income tax bracket for a portion of taxable income that was previously taxed at 15 percent and reduced the other regular income tax rates of 28%, 31% 36% and 39.6% to 25%, 28%, 33%, and 35%, respectively. The bill would permanently extend the 10%, 25% and 28% rate brackets. The bill would make permanent the reduced rates on capital gain and dividend income for taxpayers with adjusted gross income. EGTRRA doubled the value of the child tax credit from $500 to $1,000, allowed the child tax credit to be claimed against the alternative minimum tax, and enhanced the refundable child tax credit Prior to 2010, certain taxpayers were subject to limitations on the amount that they could claim with respect to itemized deductions (the "Pease" limitation) and personal exemptions (the "PEP" limitation). The bill would permanently set the threshold at which these limitations apply so that taxpayers with adjusted gross income under $200,000 ($250,000 for a married couple filing jointly), adjusted for inflation, would not be subject to these limitations. A "marriage penalty" exists when the combined tax liability of a married filing a joint return is greater than the sum of the tax liabilities of each individual computed as if they were not married. Among other things, EGTRRA increased the basic standard deduction for a married couple filing a joint return to twice the basic standard deduction for an unmarried individual filing a single return. The bill would permanently extend this tax relief. The bill would make permanent certain EGTRRA modifications and ARRA modifications to the earned income tax credit. The bill would make permanent certain modifications to the suite of education tax incentives included in the EGTRRA The bill would make permanent certain tax benefits for families and children enacted in the EGTRRA, including: the maximum $13,170 adoption tax credit , the employee tax credit for employee child care, and the increased dependent care tax credit. The bill would make permanent the increased small business expensing amounts set to expire at the end of 2010 that were enacted prior to the ARRA and prior to the "Small Business Jobs Act of 2010". Reducing the deficit and ending wasteful spending has been a longstanding priority for Congressman Cuellar. As a member of the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition, Congressman Cuellar authored the bill to reduce government waste, Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010. This bipartisan legislation would increase transparency and accountability by requiring federal agencies to establish performance goals that can be measured and reported to Congress and taxpayers. On June 16, 2010 the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed the bill and it is expected to see action on the Senate floor shortly. In February 2009, Congressman Cuellar helped pass the largest single measure to provide 95% of all hard-working Americans with a tax cut, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which provided over $100 billion worth of payroll tax cuts for hard working Americans, including over $4.2 billion for working Texans. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
11.24.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), made the following statement regarding the Thanksgiving holiday: “Every year at this time, we set aside a day to reflect upon our blessings as Americans and look forward to gathering with our families to enjoy a dinner of thanks. But there are others who are far away from their families and working hard to protect our nation. There are 41,670 veterans in the 28th congressional district of Texas and 23,067,000 veterans in America. I’d like to thank these brave men and women who have served and those currently serving for ensuring our freedom, one of the greatest blessings that we celebrate today. And to wish everyone in South Texas a safe Thanksgiving holiday.”
11.17.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), along with U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, recognized Andrew Trautmann Elementary School, located in Laredo, Texas, as a recipient of the 2010 National Blue Ribbon School Award. Only 314 schools nation-wide received the honor this year. The award honors public and private elementary, middle and high schools whose students achieve at very high levels or have made significant progress and helped close gaps in achievement especially among disadvantaged and minority students. The schools—254 public and 50 private—were honored at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. Several members of the Trautmann school faculty and administrators from the United Independent School District attended, including Superintendent Roberto Santos, Assistant Superintendent Pamela Juarez, Principal Cynthia Rodriguez, Board members Roberto Ramirez and Juan Molina, Assistant Principal Kristina Chapa and teachers Roselynn Gutierrez, Toni Cantu, Cindy Vega and Alexa Schaefer. “Education is the gateway to opportunity,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We must do everything within our power to ensure that the children of our community have access to a quality education. I laud Trautmann Elementary School Principal Cindy Rodriguez, the teachers, and the hard-working staff for their great work and commitment to bettering our community through education.” "Our nation has a responsibility to help all children realize their full potential," Duncan said. "Schools honored with the Blue Ribbon Schools award are committed to achievement and to ensuring that students learn and succeed. Their work reflects the conviction that every child has promise and must receive a quality education." Each year since 1982, the U.S. Department of Education has sought out schools where students attain and maintain high academic goals, including those that beat the odds. In the past 28 years, more than 6,000 of America's schools have received this coveted award. The Blue Ribbon Schools Program honors schools based on one of two criteria: 1. Schools whose students, regardless of backgrounds, are high performing. These are schools ranked among the state's highest performing schools as measured by their performance on state assessments or in the case of private schools, that score at the highest performance level on tests referenced by national norms in at least the most recent year tested; and 2. Schools with at least 40 percent of their students from disadvantaged backgrounds that improve student performance to high levels as measured by the school's performance on state assessments or nationally-normed tests. A list of the 2010 Blue Ribbon Schools is available at http://www.ed.gov/programs/nclbbrs/awards.html. ###
11.10.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), along with U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, announced today that Texas has reached a significant milestone under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act – completing weatherization work for more than 30 percent of the homes the state had planned to weatherize. As of September 30, 2010, Texas has weatherized more than 15,900 homes with Recovery Act funding, plus more than 4,100 additional homes with annual program funding. As a result of the progress in the program to date, the state will now have access to an additional $163.5 million in Recovery Act weatherization funding to continue providing energy efficiency services to Texas’ low-income families. "Weatherizing homes puts Texans to work and helps reduce energy costs for families who need it most," said Congressman Cuellar. "The weatherization program is creating hundreds of jobs – putting carpenters, electricians, and factory workers back to work installing insulation, upgrading appliances, and improving heating and cooling systems. According to state reports, the Recovery Act Weatherization Assistance Program supported more than 14,000 jobs in the third quarter of 2010, including nearly 950 jobs in Texas. "What we see here today is that states like Texas are moving forward aggressively with the weatherization program, delivering energy and cost savings for the families," said U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu. "This Recovery Act funding is helping to create jobs in local communities while putting America on the path to a clean energy future." Under the Recovery Act, Texas was allocated nearly $327 million to weatherize nearly 34,000 homes. The state previously had access to the first 50 percent of the funding. By weatherizing more than 30 percent of their total estimated homes and meeting a series of aggressive accountability and reporting milestones, Texas now has access to the full $327 million to continue weatherizing homes across the state. Together with the more than 4,100 additional homes Texas has weatherized with annual program funding, the state has already weatherized more than 20,000 homes since the Recovery Act began. In August, Vice President Biden announced that states across the country have already weatherized more than 200,000 low-income homes. After ramping up last year, the Weatherization Assistance Program is now weatherizing homes at its optimal rate – approximately 25,000 homes per month. This summer alone, more than 80,000 homes were weatherized across the country. Under the weatherization program, local agencies provide whole-home energy efficiency upgrades, including conducting an energy audit in the home to identify the most cost-effective improvements, and implementing solutions that range from installing additional insulation and weatherstripping, sealing windows and doors, caulking cracks in the building, and replacing inefficient heating and cooling systems. ###
11.09.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), announced the release of a U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee Report that shows Social Security is primary income source for elderly women. The report shows that Social Security accounts for more than two-thirds of all income for women aged 65 and over and that any efforts to tinker with this program could have a dramatic impact on retired women who count on their Social Security benefits to make ends meet. The report, “Social Security Provides Economic Security to Women,” includes a state-by-state snapshot of the 20.3 million women aged 65 and over who receive Social Security benefits. The report, prepared by the Majority Staff of the JEC, finds that without Social Security, half of elderly women would live in poverty. In fact, Social Security benefits bring the poverty rate for women aged 65 and over down to 12 percent. “Our nation made a promise to Americans 75 years ago to compensate a lifetime of hard work and dedication. We must not compromise these financial benefits for the more than 3 million seniors and other beneficiaries in Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That's why I'll continue to protect this important program and its fiscal solvency for the long-term. By preserving this program and keeping it strong, we ensure future generations can also benefit from Social Security." The impact of Social Security is particularly striking among widows aged 65 and over: 58 percent of widows would be living in poverty without Social Security; with Social Security, the poverty rate drops to 15 percent. Nationally, women aged 65 and over represent 9.8 percent of the adult population; in Texas, elderly women make up 8.1 percent of the adult population. Social Security benefits are based on lifetime earnings, with the average monthly benefit for women aged 65 and over ranging from a low of $891 in Louisiana to a high of $1,126 in New Jersey. “Social Security is literally a lifeline for most elderly women,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney, Chair of the JEC. “Senior citizens, and particularly elderly women, need to be wary of proposals that change the way Social Security operates. Social Security works. It keeps millions of people out of poverty. We cannot afford to mess it up.” A key finding of an earlier JEC report on Social Security is that with privatization, retirees will be subject to fluctuations in the performance of the stock market and overall returns will vary based on individual investment decisions, with significant swings in returns and account accumulations possible from year to year and even month to month. An annuity purchased in 2008 by a worker who had invested solely in the stock market over a 40-year work history would replace only 40 percent of his final income, down from 87 percent replacement just two years earlier. For example, a worker expecting an annuity of $867 per month in 2006 would have received $399 per month if he retired in 2008. “Social Security should not be undermined by stock market risk,” said Congressman Cuellar. As millions of Americans found out earlier this decade, the stock market is an inherently risky venture. The system was created and has served for generations as social insurance, not social investment and we owe it to our seniors and our children and ourselves to preserve that guarantee. I hope that we can come together, on both sides of the aisle and find a reasonable, bipartisan solution to this problem.”
11.01.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), along with the Texas Democratic delegation, announced that the Department of Transportation has awarded Texas and Oklahoma a $5,600,000.00-grant as part of the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Grant Program. These funds will be used to complete necessary, preliminary corridor service planning studies for new and improved high-speed intercity passenger rail along an approximate 850-mile corridor, which mirrors the route of Interstate 35 between South Texas and Oklahoma City. The $5.6 million in planning funds will be shared with the State of Oklahoma, with Texas acting as the lead State. Congressman Cuellar authored an amendment in H.R. 6003, the "Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, to ensure that the South Texas community was included in the study. Now, initial planning will look at Laredo and McAllen/Brownsville as potential sites for a rail station. Prior to Congressman Cuellar’s amendment, the study would have only included areas north of San Antonio. "Geographically, Texas is ideally suited for rail transportation and that’s why I fought hard to ensure that South Texas and the border community was included in this study," said Congressman Henry Cuellar. "A new passenger rail line would garner sizeable benefits for travelers as well as those in the trade community. This grant marks the kind of developments that will serve as the foundation for travel and commerce of the future." Members of the Texas Democratic delegation, Reps. Eddie Johnson, Lloyd Doggett, Ciro Rodriguez, Solomon Ortiz, Ruben Hinojosa, Charles Gonzalez and Chet Edwards, welcomed news as well. "With our highway system reaching capacity I’m glad to see Texas moving forward in developing a High Speed Rail infrastructure. These planning funds will allow the Texas Department of Transportation to begin planning for an intercity high speed corridor that would provide service from Laredo and Brownsville, to San Antonio and through Austin, Dallas, Fort Worth and onto Oklahoma City," said Congresswoman Eddie Johnson, the senior Texan on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. ###
10.19.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that $46,553,879 has been allocated to lend to small businesses in Texas by the Treasury Department, in a key step of implementing the just-passed Small Business Jobs Act. States can now apply for their allocation. This effort provides $15 billion nationwide in new small business lending through innovative local programs that help entrepreneurs expand their businesses and create new jobs. Congress recently passed the Small Business Jobs Act to spur economic growth and create 500,000 new jobs by providing much-needed lending to millions of small businesses, and offering 8 new tax incentives to companies, so that they may expand, hire, and fuel our economy. "Small businesses are the engine of our economy and are key to creating American jobs and rebuilding the economy for the future," said Congressman Cuellar. "Providing $46.5 million in lending in Texas is critical for small businesses to help them grow and flourish; state officials must quickly jump on this opportunity. Increased access to capital and new tax cuts will not only keep jobs in America, it will allow small businesses to make it in America." Through this part of the Small Business Jobs Act, states have the opportunity to apply for federal funds for programs that partner with private lenders to extend greater credit to small businesses. States are required to demonstrate a minimum "bang for the buck" of $10 in new private lending for every $1 in federal funding. Accordingly, the $1.5 billion investment from the federal government is expected to support $15 billion in additional private lending. In addition to the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the Small Business Jobs Act will help America’s 27 million small businesses with eight tax cuts totaling $12 billion that went into effect last week. It will make Main Street businesses more competitive with big corporations by spurring up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses through community banks and extending and expanding existing Small Business Administration low-cost loans. Finally, this bill is fully paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
10.13.2010	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28, released the following response to the death of Commandante Rolando Flores Villegas in Ciudad Miguel Aleman: "My deepest sympathies go out to the Flores family and the law enforcement community along the border. Commandante Flores had a reputation for cooperation and camaraderie with his American counterparts and he will sorely be missed. Commandante Flores and many of his peers had continued to search for David Hartley in the face of grave threats and imminent danger. This tragic incident demonstrates the continued efforts of the Mexican law enforcement community to help us in America solve the Hartley case. For reasons like this, I have been a vocal proponent of the Merida Initiative and making sure we provide ample support for our international partners in border security. With grief in our hearts, we in the South Texas community are hopeful that the investigation and search will continue until the Hartley case is resolved." ####
10.12.2010	Today, President Obama signed into law legislation authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) to increase the accountability and efficiency of homeland security grants. H.R. 3980, the Redundancy Elimination and Enhanced Performance for Preparedness Grants Act, requires FEMA to take an inventory of its homeland security grants and devise performance metrics to determine their effectiveness. The legislation also directs FEMA to eliminate unnecessary reporting requirements, rules and regulations that often discourage local entities from participating in the program. FEMA will now have 90 days to submit plans and timetables to Congress, illustrating its ability to achieve these objectives. "This bill is long overdue," said Congressman Cuellar. "Knowing how effectively federal dollars are being spent will ensure taxpayers are getting the most bang for their buck." "Despite our best efforts, FEMA has not yet devised a way to systematically assess homeland security grants to determine how they can best improve first responder capabilities," said Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. "This bill will help put FEMA on track to develop effective performance measures for its grants – and ultimately to ensure both that tax dollars are spent wisely and that our nation is better prepared. I commend Congressman Cuellar for his leadership in this effort." "Without reliable performance measures, we risk allotting scarce homeland security grant dollars to activities that do not boost our nation’s preparedness," said Congressman Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. "I commend Representative Cuellar for identifying this gap in grant administration and look forward to working with him and other Members of the Committee to ensure that this law is implemented in a manner that fosters the necessary capabilities for first responders to prepare for, and respond to, any disaster." FEMA has invested $29 billion in preparedness grants to state and local entities since 2002. In 2009, the agency reported its system for measuring those investments was seriously flawed. Last year, on behalf of Congress, the National Academy of Public Administration completed an independent assessment of FEMA offices and found that preparedness was not fully integrated across the agency. "I thank Senator Lieberman and Congressman Thompson whose tireless dedication helped usher this bill through the Congress," said Congressman Cuellar. "Despite spending $5 million to measure how effectively it spent $29 billion over the past seven years, FEMA is still unable to accurately gauge if this spending has made us any safer." The House passed Congressman Cuellar’s original bill in December 2009 by a vote of 414-0. It was favorably reported by both the House Committee on Homeland Security, Chaired by Congressman Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Chaired by Senator Joseph Lieberman (I-CT).
10.08.2010	Yesterday Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28, met with Congressmen Solomon Ortiz (TX-27) and Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) to rally federal, state and local resources in assisting Mexican officials in the search for David Hartley. As the Hartley’s representative in Congress and as Chairman of the Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee, Congressman Cuellar personally reached out to all the federal agencies involved during the past week. Yesterday, he called on them to meet face to face to discuss progress with Mexican counterparts. The meeting was a chance to ask questions to the agencies and officials directly, in one place. “We cannot be quick to judge this situation. What is in everyone’s best interest is cooperation between all who are involved and that is why we gathered here today,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Clearly, this situation is complicated. It allegedly occurred in international waters under Mexico’s jurisdictional authority. But mechanisms are already exist for cross-border cooperation and we need to maximize their potential to get answers.” "I offer my most sincere condolences to the family of David Hartley. Yesterday's briefing brought U.S. and Mexican officials together to discuss the on-going efforts in the search of David Hartley's body. We will continue to work with our counterparts in Mexico to bring closure to this tragic situation," said Congressman Ortiz. “I join my border colleagues in expressing our deepest sympathy to the Hartley family and want to ensure them that we will continue to provide whatever support is necessary to assist the ongoing bi-national investigation of this horrible crime that occurred near Arroyo Salado in Mexican waters,” said Congressman Hinojosa. “I am pleased that President Calderon has also committed additional resources to bring those involved to justice.” ####
10.05.2010	In response to the disappearance of David Hartley on Falcon Lake, Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement about his efforts: “First and most importantly, I’d like to express my sympathies to the Hartley family. I spoke to the Hartley family this morning to express my deepest regards and to inform them of my efforts in the search for David Hartley. As Chairman of the US House Committee of Homeland Security Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee, I have reached out to all the federal agencies involved- Customs and Border Patrol, CBP Office of Air & Marine, the Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security and the State Department. And I’ve been speaking to the local sheriff’s office. Our Federal agents always do an admirable job, but more must be done, questions must be answered and David Hartley must be found. Unfortunately, because the incident occurred in Mexican waters, the United States does not have jurisdictional authority; however we can and must continue to urge our Mexican counterparts to search for David Hartley. The U.S. Consulate General has requested authorization for U.S. law enforcement to assist in the search, but we are still awaiting the Mexican response. I have contacted the Mexican Embassy and urged them to move the case quickly. As a lifelong Laredoan, border security is an issue that I have been working on for decades and that I take to heart on a very personal level. Two years ago, I authored legislation to require a mission analysis for search and rescue operations, migrant interdiction operations, and drug interdiction operations on the Rio Grande River-to determine the manpower and equipment the Coast Guard requires to be prepared to respond to just these types of incidents. In fact, the Coast Guard Reauthorization bill passed both chambers and will be signed by the White House this week. The safety and security of our Texas communities are always my first priority. I am urging all federal government agencies involved and the Mexican government to find David Hartley and cooperate with state and local officials.” ####
10.01.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) announced that his bipartisan legislation to increase government efficiency and decrease waste is one step closer to becoming law, after H.R. 2142, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 passed the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. This bipartisan legislation would increase transparency and accountability by requiring federal agencies to establish performance goals that can be measured and reported to Congress and taxpayers. "Its great news that the Senate committee has come together in the spirit of bipartisanship to move forward a bill that would dramatically improve efficiency in the federal government," said Congressman Cuellar. "No one can afford to waste money- especially not the government and especially not now. Better information yields better results, and this bill will help us invest in what works and fix what doesn’t." As a State Representative in Texas, Congressman Cuellar helped pass similar legislation, which has successfully set forth standards for government-wide strategic planning in their state budgets. Congressman Cuellar’s performance-based budgeting bill is a major part of the Blue Dog Coalition’s Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform. Taxpayers for Common Sense, Center for American Progress Action Fund and Robert Shea, Associate OMB Director under President George W. Bush also support H.R. 2142. On Wednesday, the U.S. Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee unanimously passed the Cuellar-authored bill with a bipartisan amendment from Sens. Lieberman (I-CT), Carper (D-DE), Collins (R-ME), Voinovich (R-OH) and Akaka (D-HI). On June 16, 2010 the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 2142. The bill is next expected to see action on the Senate floor when the Senate reconvenes in November. To view a fact sheet on Congressman Cuellar’s government efficiency bill, please visit: /UploadedFiles/Cuellar_Better_Budget_Bill_Fact_Sheet.pdf
09.29.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar’s homeland security bill to direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency to assess the efficiency of homeland security grants passed in the House yesterday, and will now go on to be signed by President Obama. Once signed into law, the Redundancy Elimination and Enhanced Performance for Preparedness Grants Act would require FEMA to streamline its preparedness funding program, making it more transparent and accountable. “Fiscal responsibility is one of my top priorities and this is performance-based budgeting at its core,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need to be able to review how effectively federal dollars are used in order to make informed funding allocation decisions in the future.” FEMA will be required to take an inventory of its homeland security grants and devise metrics to determine their effectiveness. The legislation also directs FEMA to eliminate unnecessary reporting requirements, rules and regulations that confuse and discourage local entities from participating in the program. FEMA has invested $29 billion in preparedness grants to state and local entities since 2002. Last fall, the agency reported its system for measuring those investments is seriously flawed. “Despite spending $5 million to measure how effectively it spent $29 billion over the past seven years, FEMA is unable to accurately gauge how this money has made us any safer,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our nation faces both an economic crisis and a constant security threat. The American people deserve to know how their money is being used to make our nation safer.” Last October, Congressman Cuellar, then chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, held a hearing to investigate how FEMA was spending preparedness funds. FEMA Deputy Administrator Timothy Manning revealed that despite a 2006 congressional mandate, FEMA had yet to fully measure the effectiveness of the grant program on our national security. “FEMA called its assessment a work-in-progress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “But their work-in-progress just wasn’t working and that’s why I immediately drafted this bill. This legislation will make sure that FEMA gets its program back on track, and will ensure FEMA fulfills its promise to prepare the nation against acts of terrorism and other unforeseeable events.” The House passed Congressman Cuellar’s original bill in December 2009 by a vote of 414-0. An amended version passed in the Senate on Wed. Sept. 22, 2010. Pending final passage, FEMA would have to submit to Congress a plan to achieve these objectives 120 days after the act becomes law. For more information on H.R. 3980, please visit: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=111_cong_bills&docid=f:h3980rh.txt.pdf
09.28.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that a $30 billion-lending fund to increase lending to small businesses became law yesterday. The legislation also contains nearly $12 billion in tax cuts for small businesses. The $30 billion in funds, administered by the Treasury Department, will be distributed to neighborhood and community banks who can make new loans to small businesses with incentives such as loan limit increases and loan guarantee extensions for loan programs. During the economic downturn, small businesses have had severe difficulty in securing loans after the financial crisis, a key contributing factor to the high rate of joblessness. “Ensuring a steady flow of credit for our small businesses will generate more jobs and spur economic growth” said Congressman Cuellar. “Texas is home to 2.1 million small businesses, second in the nation and 98.7% of employers are small firms. In the face of tight credit markets and decreased lending, this new law will help create Texas jobs.” The Small Business Jobs law also lowers tax burdens on small businesses. Specifically, it will: · Double small business expensing to $500,000 for immediate write offs of capital investments, such as equipment and machinery. · It helps small business investors by offering zero capital gains taxes on small business investments. · Reduces taxes on small business by allowing them to “carry back” general business tax credits to offset taxes from previous years – up to five. · Gives small businesses general business tax credits to free up capital for expansion and job growth and it expands the purchases that qualify for expensing to include certain types of real property, such as leasehold, retail and restaurant improvements. · Expands certain SBA lending programs to create greater loan opportunities. · Extends bonus depreciation, allowing businesses to immediately write off 50 percent of the cost of new equipment investments in 2010. · Doubles to $10,000 the tax deduction for start-up expenditures for entrepreneurs looking to launch a new venture. Congressman Cuellar also authored an amendment, included in the legislation, to ensure high-unemployment areas are taken into consideration when new funds are distributed. “As a former small business owner, I know that small businesses are a key engine of job growth and my amendment will give small businesses the resources they need in places where they need it most,” said Congressman Cuellar. H.R. 5297, passed the Senate by a vote of 61-38, passed the House by a vote of 237-187 and was signed into law by President Obama yesterday. H.R. 5297 is endorsed by the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority and the Independent Community Bankers of America. #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
09.20.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that South Texas College was awarded a grant for $599,495.00, as part of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Hispanic-Serving Institutions Assisting Communities (HSIAC) program. “Education is the gateway to better jobs and better opportunities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Congressman Hinojosa and I really fought to make sure that STC, a well-deserving institution, was recognized. This grant is a step forward to improving and revitalizing South Texas communities, which have been disproportionately effected by the economic downturn.” The purpose of the HSIAC Program is to assist Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) expand their role and effectiveness in addressing community development needs in their localities, including neighborhood revitalization, housing and economic development, principally for persons of low- and moderate-income. South Texas College is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
09.20.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28, today announced $200,000 he helped secure for the Laredo Little Theatre. The funds come from the 2010 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act. The money will be used to purchase and replace outdated electronic equipment, such as the light board and electrical wiring and audio equipment. It will also assist with the replacement of worn auditorium seating and to construct a prop and costume storage facility. “These funds will support and allow the performing arts here in Laredo to keep growing,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Our families deserve the opportunity to continue learning and one way of doing so is by promoting the arts. We must do everything within our reach to ensure that our young ones – and young at heart – have access to these types of programs.” “We are very appreciative of this grant; it will help us to better serve the community by allowing us to upgrade the technical aspect of the theatre, as well as affording us the opportunity to save money by storing props and costumes for future use,” said Jose Guevara, President of the Laredo Little Theatre. “It will also help us provide new seating and much needed additional parking for our patrons who come from all over our community to participate in and enjoy our productions.” Congressman Cuellar added, “A lot of the theatre’s success has to do with the quality of performers who have walked through these doors and who will continue to walk through these doors. This money will play a big role in improving the aesthetics of the theatre, while at the same time providing the actors with a quality facility."
09.20.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX 28) was honored to receive the ‘Friend of the Americas’ Award from the Border Trade Alliance during its 21st Century Border conference at the McAllen Convention Center, on Sept. 9, 2010. Sam Vale, Vice-President of BTA and President of Telemundo 40, presented Congressman Cuellar with the organization’s highest honor, the Friend of the Americas Award. “As a life long member of the border community, it is an honor to receive this award,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It’s important to recognize the immense, positive impact of border trade, not just at the local level, but nationally. In a time of economic fragility, we need to do all we can to strengthen and protect our ties with Mexico.” The award is bestowed on those leaders who are committed to increasing the economic and cultural ties across our borders. "The congressman's comments on Thursday made clear that the country is fortunate to have an individual with his commitment to better borders serving in Congress," Nelson Balido, BTA President, said. "He clearly understands that cross-border trade can bring positive economic and community-level contributions, but that we must address some critical public safety and security issues in Mexico in order to realize trade's full potential and strengthen the U.S.-Mexico relationship." Past recipients include former Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge and Dr. Herminio Blanco, Mexico’s chief negotiator of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Founded in 1986, the Border Trade Alliance (BTA) is a grassroots, non-profit organization that serves as a forum for participants to address ssues affecting trade and economic development in North America. The BTA represents a network of 1.8 million public and private sector representatives, including business leaders, chambers of commerce and industry, academic institutions, economic development corporations, industrial parks, transport companies, custom brokers, manufacturers, and federal, state, and local government officials and agencies LA ALIANZA DEL COMERCIO DE LA FRONTERA DA ALTO PREMIO DE RECONOCIMIENTO A CUELLAR McAllen, TX- El Congresista Henry Cuellar (TX 28) se sintió homenajeado de recibir el premio ‘Friend of the Americas’ de la Alianza del Comercio de la Frontera durante la conferencia ‘21st Century Border’ en el Centro de Convenciones de McAllen, TX el 9 de Septiembre del 2010. Sam Vale, Vice-Presidente de BTA y Presidente de Telemundo 40, premio a el Congresista Cuellar con el honor mas alto de la organización, el premio ‘Friend of the Americas’. “Como miembro de la comunidad de la frontera, es un honor recibir este premio” dijo el Congresista Cuellar. “Es importante reconocer el impacto positivo del comercio en la frontera, no solo a nivel local sino a nivel nacional. En tiempos económicos como los de hoy en día, necesitamos hacer todo lo posible para mantener y mejorar nuestra relación con México” Este premio es presentado a los líderes que están comprometidos en incrementar la economía y la cultura en nuestras fronteras. “Los comentarios del congresista el Jueves muestran claramente que el país es afortunado en tener representantes en el congreso que están comprometidos a mejor nuestras fronteras.” Dijo Nelson Balido, Presidente de BTA “Cuellar claramente entiende que el comercio entre nuestras fronteras puede traer una mejor economía y contribuciones a nivel de la comunidad, pero que debemos tener en mente los inconvenientes de seguridad en México para poder realizar un comercio lleno de potencial y reesforzar la relación de los Estados Unidos y México.” . Algunas de las personas que han recibido este honor incluyen el Secretario de Seguridad Nacional Tom Ridge y el Doctor Herminio Blanco, jefe de negociaciones del Acuerdo Norte Americano de Comercio Gratis. Fundada en 1986, la Alianza del Comercio de la Frontera es un movimiento político y una organización no lucrativa que sirve como foro para que sus participantes puedan hablar sobre los problemas que afectan la economía y el comercio en Norte America. BTA representa a 1.8 millones de representantes del sector publico y privado, incluyendo lideres de negocios, cámaras de comercio y industria, institutos académicos, corporaciones de desarrollo económicos, parques industriales, compañías de transporte, agentes de aduana y agencias y oficiales del gobierno federal, estatal y local.
09.14.2010	Congressman Cuellar was honored today to receive the Texas Farmers Union Legislative White Hat Award from the Texas Farmer’s Union. The award was given for the Congressman’s outstanding voting record and his work in the House Committee on Agriculture. Wes Sims, the President of TFU and other members of TFU, presented the award in the Congressman’s Washington office. “It is an honor to be recognized by the Texas Farmer’s Union with the White Hat Award,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As the only Democrat from Texas on the House Agriculture Committee, it is an incredible opportunity to support the farmers and the agricultural community that forms the ‘bread basket’ of America.”
09.13.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar, joined by members of the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System, the City of Laredo, and the University of Texas Health Science Center-San Antonio on Monday announced an expansion project for the Laredo VA Outpatient Clinic. The expansion project was recently approved by Veterans Affairs Department Secretary Erik Shinseki, and it is a collaborative effort between Congressman Cuellar, the VA, the City of Laredo, and the UT Health Science Center. “Securing this much-needed project that will improve health care services for our Laredo veterans has been one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I assure you that we will continue forging ahead in an effort to provide more veterans services, not only in Laredo but also for veterans in surrounding areas. I thank the VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System, the City of Laredo and the UT-Health Science Center for their collaboration in transforming this project from concept to reality.” “Today’s announcement is a great example of city, state and federal agencies working together to better serve the local community. These cooperative efforts by all agencies has made a new VA clinic possible for Veterans in Laredo and surrounding communities,” said Jeff Milligan, VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System director. “I am proud to be part of the Department of Veterans Affairs historic investment with an expansion of health care services and facilities for Deep South Texas Veterans” Expansion of the veterans’ clinic consists of a 16,600 square-foot building that will be constructed on land proportioned by the City of Laredo. This will provide an expansion of primary health care services currently offered at the existing clinic. Services will also include orthopedics, women’s health services, diabetic retinal imaging, mental health, nutrition, social work, podiatry and phlebotomy.
08.17.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced today that counties that were named disaster areas in the wake of Hurricane Alex have been given priority status to acquire federally-owned reconstruction equipment at discounted rates. “Every penny counts, especially in rough economic times like these when families and communities are really feeling the pinch,” said Congressman Cuellar. “When it comes to natural disasters, we need all hands on deck in order to start rebuilding.” On August 3, 2010, President Obama declared nine counties in southern Texas (including Hidalgo, Jim Hogg, Starr, Webb and Zapata) disaster areas, making the local governments eligible for federal funds to repair and reconstruct their communities. Under the presidential disaster declaration, the Texas Facilities Commission (TFC) also can request “priority screening” status from the General Services Administration, an agency that oversees the surplus of federally-owned heavy equipment through the Federal Surplus Property Program. The TFC has now been granted “priority screening” status and they are urgently gathering surplus equipment from across the country to distribute to hurricane-affected areas. Under priority status, these communities can acquire supplies, such as tractors, road graders, bulldozers, generators and water purification systems for a fraction of market value and the costs of shipping. Cities, counties or non-profit organizations that assist Texans displaced by Hurricane Alex, that would like to request equipment through the Federal Surplus Property program, contact FSP manager at the Texas Facilities Commission Greg Conn, at Gregory.Conn@tfc.state.tx.us.
08.10.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28, today helped unanimously pass HR 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which provides $600 million to strengthen border security and help reduce violence along the Southwest border. The text of the bill is identical to that passed by the Senate last Thursday, but now avoids the violation of the Origination Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Last week, Congressman Cuellar led efforts urging Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer to bring this important bill to the House floor when the House reconvened this week. "Today, I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this important bill and for helping protect and secure our border,” said Congressman Cuellar, an original co-sponsor of the legislation. "This is one of the single largest infusions of funding to secure the southern border. It is also a critical step to combat illegal activity and secure our communities who face law enforcement challenges everyday." This funding includes more than $300 million for US Customs and Border Protection (CBP), as well as funding for the hiring of additional Border Patrol agents, CBP Officers at our ports of entry on the southwest border, and for equipment and technology that will improve tactical communications in support of these missions, including support for the Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, or Drones. The bill provides for hiring 1,000 Border Patrol agents to form a “strike force” as well as 250 new Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel and 250 new CBP officers at land ports of entry. This bill also provides $80 million for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the largest investigative arm of the Department of Homeland Security. “I now request that the Senate take up this bill without delay, as a matter of national security,” said Congressman Cuellar.
07.22.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped pass emergency legislation to assist millions of Americans and thousands of Texans with financial assistance during these tough economic times. The Unemployment Compensation Act will help 2.5 million American families with unemployment benefits through November 30, 2010 and will retroactively restore benefits to families who have been waiting for the extension since late May. "Today we moved this bill through the House to provide immediate relief to millions of Americans and thousands of Texas families who rely on this assistance in these tough economic times," said Congressman Cuellar. "This assistance will go to many of our neighbors throughout Texas who struggle to find employment as our economy recovers. It is vitally important to help these families." According to the Department of Labor, over 151,000 Texans will benefit from the emergency extension passed in the House today. Millions of Americans stopped receiving jobless benefits seven weeks ago after the Senate failed to pass a House-passed bill to extend the unemployment aid. On Wednesday, the Senate passed the unemployment bill and today’s House passage sends the bill to the President who will sign it into law. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that for every dollar extended in jobless benefits, $1.90 is generated in economic activity. Federal unemployment benefits, which last up to 73 weeks, start after state-funded benefits expire. "These are still trying times for thousands of Texans," said Congressman Cuellar. "As we see signs of economic progress, we can’t leave behind those hurting families who still seek employment in this tough job market. These jobless benefits help these families and in turn help stimulate our economic recovery." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.19.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, released the following statement in response to today’s joint announcement by the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security to deploy 1,200 National Guard troops to the U.S. southern border beginning August 1, 2010. “In order to further combat illegal activity along our southern border, the National Guard will deploy in coordination with the Department of Homeland Security 1,200 troops to the U.S. Southern Border beginning August 1. The focus of this deployment is to provide additional support and surveillance to our border security efforts already underway. In doing so, the majority of these guardsmen will assist with border surveillance and serve as entry identification teams between our land ports of entry to support Border Patrol in detecting the movement of illegal aliens and contraband traffickers. Additional guardsmen will serve as criminal intelligence analysts to support DHS intelligence forces. “This combination of additional support will ensure we take all necessary steps to combat the spectrum of threats we face along the U.S. Mexico border. This temporary deployment will provide immediate support to our federal law enforcement until Customs and Border Protection and ICE can recruit and train additional officers, agents and analysts. I believe this will strengthen our multi-layered approach to combat narcotics, weapons and human smuggling along our border. “As drug-related violence persists in neighboring Mexico, this is one more step we’re taking to ensure the safety of our border states who face a unique exposure to drug-related violence and illegal activity. Now we look to our Senate colleagues to immediately augment these efforts by passing the $701 million in emergency funding for the southern border that the House passed this July. These are critical funds to support our federal, state and local law enforcement that carry out our border security mission everyday.” Background information: Today, the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense announced the deployment of 1,200 National Guard troops to the U.S. Mexico Border beginning August 1. The President authorized this deployment in order to provide intelligence surveillance and additional law enforcement support to DHS efforts along the southern border. This temporary deployment, at a maximum of one year, will provide support in the following states: Arizona: 524 National Guard to be deployed California: 224 National Guard to be deployed New Mexico: 72 National Guard to be deployed (will also provide support to the El Paso region) Texas: 250 National Guard to be deployed Additionally, 130 National Guard will serve as command and control to the overall mission. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.16.2010	The Texas Department of State Health Services announced that after receiving a letter from U.S. Congressmen Henry Cuellar, Rubén Hinojosa and Solomon Ortiz, the State will expedite funding for mosquito abatement in several counties affected by Hurricane Alex. The $500,000 approved late Thursday, was requested by Webb, Hidalgo and Cameron Counties for ground spraying chemicals and briquettes, which are placed in standing water to kill mosquito larvae. “This will ensure important relief to our local communities in the wake of recent flooding in South Texas. From Laredo to the Valley, this will help abate the infestation of mosquitoes affecting our local families,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This is good news we can use in the midst of these floods.” “Growing up in the Rio Grande Valley I know how bad the mosquito infestation can get”, said Congressman Ruben Hinojosa. “We all know that right after a Hurricane or even a heavy rain, we get swarmed by mosquitoes. And knowing that mosquitoes carry dengue fever and the West Nile virus, we must not waste any time in getting rid of the problem. This is why we felt the need to write the letter asking for immediate assistance”. “We will continue to look out for the people in South Texas and do all we can to ensure we continue to offer mosquito abatement in South Texas,” Congressman Solomon Ortiz said. “I thank Congressman Hinojosa and Cuellar for their cooperation on this issue.” The letter sent by the three South Texas Congressmen also requested financial assistance for aerial spraying. The State determined that aerial spraying assistance cannot be granted until a total of $27 million in damages is reached by all the counties affected. Aerial spraying also requires approval by other federal agencies including the EPA and the Department of Interior’s Fish and Wildlife Service. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.14.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s nomination of U.S. Magistrate Judge Diana Saldana to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Laredo Division. If confirmed by the Senate, Judge Saldana will serve as one of two federal judges for the U.S. District Court in Laredo, Texas. This is the first nomination made by the President to fulfill the pending federal judgeships throughout the State of Texas. "Today, I congratulate Judge Diana Saldana on this honor and privilege to be nominated by the President as a U.S. District Court Judge in Laredo, Texas. In this role, she will continue to serve the good people of Laredo and she will continue to uphold the rule of law to the benefit of our nation and state. The Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation recommended to the White House Judge Saldana based on her solid qualifications and dedication to the court. This is pivotal moment for our state as she is the President’s first nomination to the bench of the U.S. District Court in Texas. I hope and trust that this is indicative of other nominations to soon follow. Moving forward, I will continue to work with the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation and with Senator John Cornyn and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison to ensure the State of Texas has its judgeships fulfilled as quickly as possible. I trust that our Senate colleagues will expeditiously review Judge Saldana’s nomination and I look forward to working together on our remaining nominations throughout the state." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.12.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) applauded the Department of Veterans Affairs for simplifying the application process for veterans filing for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) benefits and health care services. The new procedures, effective this week, will significantly reduce the information a veteran needs to submit when claiming PTSD. "This is a significant leap forward in supporting our nation’s veterans," said Congressman Cuellar. "With these new rules, we help our service men and women get the health care and benefits they need and deserve, and we uphold our obligation to those who have so honorably served our nation." The new rules will make it easier for veterans to get treatment and financial support for PTSD. Previously, veterans had to attribute a specific combat experience with their PTSD symptoms. Now, veterans are only required to provide evidence that they served in a war zone where conditions contributed to their post-traumatic stress. The VA expects that the new rule will reduce the amount of time it takes for a PTSD-related claim to be processed. More than 400,000 veterans currently receiving VA compensation benefits have service-connected PTSD. PTSD is a medically recognized anxiety disorder that is connected and developed by experiencing or witnessing a traumatic event such as possible death or serious injury. "This nation has a solemn obligation to the men and women who have honorably served this country and suffer from the often devastating emotional wounds of war," said Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric K. Shinseki. "This final regulation goes a long way to ensure that Veterans receive the benefits and services they need." To learn more about this new benefit for veterans, please visit: http://www1.va.gov/opa/pressrel/pressrelease.cfm?id=1922 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.02.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that $701 million in emergency funding for the nation’s southern border passed the House late Thursday as part of a larger emergency spending measure to support the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The funding will allow for the deployment of 1,200 new Border Patrol agents between the ports of entry along the U.S. Mexico border and also includes $201 million for Justice Department programs that support local law enforcement. "This is one of the single largest infusions of funding to secure the southern border," said Congressman Cuellar. "This is a critical next step in combating illegal activity and securing our communities who face law enforcement challenges everyday." The emergency border funding includes $208 million for 1,200 additional Border Patrol agents, plus $136 million to maintain Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer staffing levels and will allow for 500 additional new officers for southern border land ports of entry. In addition, $35.5 million will be made available for improved tactical communications along the border, three permanent Border Patrol forward operating bases, and a surge of workforce integrity investigations designed to prevent corruption among CBP officers and agents. An additional $30 million will assist Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) activities to reduce the threat of narcotics trafficking and $50 million for Operation Stonegarden will supplement grants to support local law enforcement. "This will infuse more resources to the border, land ports and local communities," said Congressman Cuellar. "The combination of boots on the ground and increased technology will ensure our ability to stay ahead of the threats on the other side of the Rio Grande." The bill includes $32 million to procure two additional CBP unmanned aircraft systems. This June, the FAA approved a CBP initiative to fly a remotely-piloted surveillance aircraft over the Texas-Mexico border and Gulf Coast. The unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) will be stationed in Corpus Christi, Texas. Congressman Cuellar, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, has been working closely with CBP and the FAA to get the UAV approved for Texas. Since April, Cuellar and other southern border lawmakers have been calling on Congress to approve emergency border funds. In an April letter to the Speaker of the House, Congressman Cuellar and eight other members of Congress requested over $500 million in emergency funds to support federal, state and local law enforcement in border states. "We have to keep our finger on the pulse," said Congressman Cuellar. "As violence in neighboring Mexico persists we have to prepare ourselves at the frontlines of our communities. These additional resources will make a difference here in Texas." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.02.2010	Today, the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation issued the following statement regarding a provision contained in the House-passed 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act to prevent the state of Texas from diverting $820 million in emergency education jobs funding for non-educational use. Last year, Texas state leaders diverted to its rainy day fund $3.25 billion in federal Recovery Act funds that were intended to support Texas public schools. “Last year, we voted for the Economic Recovery Act, which included $3.25 billion to support local Texas school districts. But instead of using these funds as Congress intended, State Republican Leadership used them to replace state education funding, thereby denying an increase in support for our local school districts. “We want to ensure that any new emergency funds Congress provides for education actually help our Texas schools. We have requested additional protections be incorporated into any Supplemental Appropriations legislation specifically for Texas schoolchildren to ensure local districts actually receive this federal help. These protections will ensure that the $820 million in new emergency federal funds for education go to preserve teacher jobs throughout the State and meet other local education needs. “These funds would go to local schools as long as the Governor certifies that (1) federal funds are not used merely to replace state education support, and (2) education funding will not be cut proportionally more than any other item in the upcoming Texas General Appropriations Act. This prevents any further shell games with federal education dollars at the expense of local schools districts. This approach has been endorsed by Texas statewide education organizations representing teachers, principals, school boards, school administrators, and nearly 40 superintendents. “A solid education is the foundation on which our economy and our democracy rest. Our support for our local school districts reflects a two-fold understanding: First, local districts know best what the needs of their students, teachers, and administrators are. Second, especially in times of a difficult economy, we need to invest in our schools. “Our language helps ensure local school districts in Texas have the support they need.” The statement (attached) was signed by U.S. Representatives Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Solomon Ortiz (TX-27), Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), Charlie González (TX-20), Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15), Al Green (TX-9), Gene Green (TX-29), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Silvestre Reyes (TX-16), Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23) and Chet Edwards (TX-17). To see a copy of the bill language specific to Texas, please visit: Page 14 at the following link here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.01.2010	Beginning today, uninsured Texans with pre-existing conditions can apply for a new health insurance program through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) will cover a broad range of health benefits, including primary and specialty care, for uninsured Texans who currently don’t have health insurance due to pre-existing conditions. "Thanks to health care reform, this new insurance program will help uninsured Texans with pre-existing conditions get the coverage they’ve long deserved," said Congressman Cuellar. "This new plan will benefit thousands of uninsured Texans whom insurance companies denied for being ill or previously sick. This program will provide long-overdue support for many Texas families." Starting today, 21 states across the country will benefit from this new health insurance program as a result of the health care reform legislation passed by Congress earlier this year. Established by the Affordable Care Act, PCIP is a transitional program until 2014 when insurers will be banned from discriminating against adults with pre-existing conditions. To be eligible for the program, Texans must be a U.S. citizen or lawfully present in the United States and must have been uninsured for at least six months before applying as a result of having a pre-existing condition. "This is one more immediate example of what health care reform is doing for Texas," said Congressman Cuellar. "Already, we’ve helped thousands of seniors, small businesses and families with new health care choices. The health care reform law is giving us commonsense solutions to benefit all Americans." To apply for the new Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan, Texans can visit www.pcip.gov to download the application and return it by mail. People can also visit the new health care website www.healthcare.gov to find out more information on new health care options. To read a question and answer fact sheet on the new PCIP program, please visit: http://www.pcip.gov/FAQ.html ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.29.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) helped pass the Homebuyers Assistance and Improvement Act to extend an important deadline to help eligible first-time homebuyers benefit from tax credits. The bill passed the House overwhelmingly Tuesday and would give homebuyers an extra three months to complete their home purchases to benefit from tax credits worth up to $8,000. "By extending this deadline, we help thousands of Americans buy their first home and strengthen our housing market in the process," said Congressman Cuellar. "More than 4 million families have already benefited from this tax credit and now we ensure thousands more can attain a part of the American dream." Under current law, homebuyers who entered contracts to purchase a home by April 30 have until June 30 to close their contracts and benefit from the first-time homebuyer tax credit. The legislation passed by the House Tuesday gives pending homebuyers until September 30 to complete the sale and qualify for the tax credit. The National Association of Realtors estimates that 180,000 homebuyers could benefit from this extension. The bill now moves to the Senate where similar legislation has been sponsored by Senate leadership. "Now more than ever, we have to do everything we can to shore up the strength of our housing market," said Congressman Cuellar. "This tax credit has been good for American homebuyers and this extension will make a difference." To learn more about the first-time homebuyer tax credit, please visit: http://www.irs.gov/newsroom/article/0,,id=204671,00.html ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.28.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement in response to the United States Supreme Court decision affirming state and local rights for individuals to keep and bear arms. On Monday, the high court ruled to uphold nationwide the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution, concluding that the constitutional right of an individual to keep and bear arms is protected from state and local laws restricting gun ownership. "I support the Supreme Court’s ruling to preserve and apply the Second Amendment throughout this great nation as our Founding Fathers intended. This landmark decision upholds the constitutional rights of Americans and ensures citizens nationwide their individual freedom to keep and bear arms no matter where they live. This ensures state and local governments cannot infringe upon this individual freedom and extends across the country equal value of this law." To read the Supreme Court’s ruling in McDonald v. Chicago, please visit: http://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/09pdf/08-1521.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.24.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that a new health care website will go live on July 1 to provide Americans a place to compare and research health insurance plans online. The Department of Health and Human Services is scheduled to launch the website next week: www.healthcare.gov. "This website will become the nation’s main portal for health insurance information," said Congressman Cuellar. "Healthcare.gov will empower Americans with comprehensive information on their health care choices." The nation’s new health care law, passed by Congress earlier this year, requires the creation of the new online health insurance portal. The website will give consumers a list of all private and public health care plans available in their region and will display detailed costs and side-by-side benefits information by October. Healthcare.gov will also list detailed information regarding premium increases among insurance companies. "By shining light on insurance premium hikes we will give Americans valuable information," said Congressman Cuellar. "By putting all this information in one place, we provide Americans the comprehensive access they don’t have right now." This week, the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor and Treasury issued regulations protected in the new Patient’s Bill of Rights under the health care law. Beginning September 23, new rules take effect to strongly limit insurance companies from capping lifetime limits on coverage, and individuals will become eligible to stay on their parents’ health insurance plans until they turn 26. For a comprehensive list of new protections taking effect this fall, please visit: /UploadedFiles/New_Patients_Bill_of_Rights_Fact_Sheet_Final.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.23.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved the flight of an unmanned aerial vehicle over 1,200 miles of the Texas-Mexico border, in addition to the Texas Gulf Coast. As a result of the decision, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) can now move forward in permanently stationing a remotely-piloted aircraft in Texas. This will be the first UAV based and operated in Texas to help combat illegal activity along the Texas-Mexico border. "Today marks a critical next step in securing the Texas-Mexico border. By permanently positioning this aircraft in Texas, CBP can further combat illegal activity along our southern border," said Congressman Cuellar. "For five years, other southern border states have benefited from this technology and this will ensure Texas has the same tools in the box to combat the spectrum of threats we face." Earlier this month, CBP began flying a remotely-piloted aircraft based in Arizona over a portion of West Texas. FAA’s most recent approval will allow CBP to fly over the remainder of the Texas-Mexico border between El Paso and Brownsville along the Rio Grande. In addition, CBP will patrol the state’s coastline along the Gulf of Mexico. The remotely-piloted aircraft, known as a Predator B, can fly for up to 20 hours and provide to CBP real-time critical intelligence information from attached cameras, sensors and radar systems. "Increasingly these aircraft will become a familiar means for providing homeland security," said Congressman Cuellar. "By putting eyes in the sky, we can provide real-time information to our law enforcement on the ground. This combination of technology and manpower keeps our law enforcement a cut above the challenges they face." CBP has indicated to Congressman Cuellar plans to place the Texas-based UAV at the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi, Texas. For six months, Congressman Cuellar, in addition to other bipartisan lawmakers from across the state, has been working in coordination with CBP and FAA to bring the UAV program to Texas. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, Congressman Cuellar is committed to ensuring the most effective, cutting-edge, cost-effective technology as a means to help secure the nation’s borders. According to CBP, since 2005 Predator Bs have flown more than 1,500 hours in support of border security missions and have assisted in the apprehension of more than 4,000 illegal aliens, in addition to the seizure of more than 15,000 pounds of marijuana. "These aircraft are a force multiplier for our border law enforcement," said Congressman Cuellar. "They have the endurance and flexibility required to patrol our border and they collect critical information to protect our country." For more information on the CBP UAV program, please visit: http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/border_security/air_marine/uas_program/uasoverview.xml ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.22.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, released the following statement in response to a letter released by the White House Tuesday in which President Obama respectfully requests Congress to approve $600 million worth of specific emergency funding requests for the nation’s southern border, including $297 million to hire 1,000 new border patrol agents, $52.5 million to hire an additional 160 new ICE agents, $37 million for two new unmanned aircraft systems and $201 million for the Department of Justice to help provide critical support along the border: “Currently, Congress is working on emergency legislation to fund issues of urgent national importance including border security. The President’s framework matches our vision in Congress to provide critical additions along the southern border in the face of escalated violence in Mexico. I support the President’s request to augment our manpower and technology within Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. In addition, I support additional funding for the Department of Justice and our partners who carry out the judicial component of border law enforcement. This combination of investments is critical to our comprehensive strategy for securing the nation’s southern border. Ultimately, Congress will decide how to appropriate such funds based on the President’s request. I will continue to stand by this and other emergency funding for our southern border. Border security is a national security issue and that’s why I remain dedicated in ensuring we provide real-time solutions to the situation we face along the southern border.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.17.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) supported the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act to establish a new community bank fund worth $30 billion to increase lending to small businesses looking to hire and expand their operations. "By providing this funding we can get credit flowing again to small businesses," said Congressman Cuellar. "Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and this will extend to them vital capital through our economic recovery." The $30 billion fund will help banks leverage up to $300 billion in new loans for the nation’s small businesses. The initiative will provide much-needed liquidity in the face of tight credit markets, and will support new and existing state lending programs, in addition to funding a new program in the Small Business Administration (SBA) to finance early stage small businesses. Included in the bill is legislation authored by Congressman Cuellar to ensure high-unemployment areas are taken into consideration when the new funds are available. Specifically, it designates the Treasury Secretary to consider how regions with unemployment figures exceeding the national average could benefit from the new lending that aims to support small businesses and create new jobs. "As a former small business owner, I understand the need for credit to keep your doors open and support your employees’ jobs," said Congressman Cuellar. "This funding will have a positive impact on our nation’s smaller employers and sustain and create jobs that support America’s families." The small business legislation has widespread support from the National Small Business Association, Small Business Majority, and the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA), representing nearly 8,000 community banks. If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, the bill would become law. According to the White House, the President supports the legislation. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.16.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed Wednesday an unprecedented government accountability bill authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), who championed similar legislation in Texas. The landmark legislation requires unparalleled public reporting from federal agencies four times a year and would make these performance reports available to the public and to Congress. The bipartisan legislation aims to reduce government waste by shining light on how government agencies perform. The landmark legislation requires unparalleled public reporting from federal agencies four times a year and would make these performance reports available to the public and to Congress. The bipartisan legislation aims to reduce government waste by shining light on how government agencies perform. "This unprecedented legislation will save taxpayer dollars by shining light on how federal agencies perform," said Congressman Cuellar. "With this bill, Congress can make more informed decisions as we fund federal agencies and their programs. Better information yields better results, and these reports will help us invest in what works and fix what doesn’t." H.R. 2142, the Government Efficiency, Effectiveness and Performance Improvement Act of 2010, authored by Congressman Cuellar, is results-oriented legislation to reduce government waste. The bill requires federal agencies to set high-value goals that benefit the American people and make public quarterly assessments on how they’ve met those goals. The legislation is built on providing cost-savings for the taxpayer through more effective, efficient government spending. The bipartisan legislation is a component of the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition’s Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform. H.R. 2142 is also supported by the Taxpayers for Common Sense, Center for American Progress Action Fund and Robert Shea, Associate OMB Director under President George W. Bush, in addition to Congressman Todd Platts (R-PA) who has worked on similar legislation in Congress over the past decade. Nationally, 25 states, including Texas, have incorporated some form of performance-based budgeting to rein-in state spending and reduce government waste, fraud and abuse. Similar, but less stringent, policies have been instituted at the federal level since the 1990s. Congressman Cuellar’s legislation goes beyond those efforts by requiring more aggressive and frequent reporting, in addition to a rigorous government oversight. "This will give Congress and the public a new tool to keep tabs on what our federal agencies are doing and how effectively they are spending taxpayer dollars," said Congressman Cuellar. "This is a commonsense concept that will benefit every taxpayer." H.R. 2142, the Government Efficiency, Effectiveness and Performance Improvement Act of 2010, does the following: Sets Clear Goals: Requires federal agencies to set clear performance goals and establish a strategy for achieving those standardsRequires Public Reports: Requires federal agencies to report on a quarterly basis to the public and to Congress how effectively they are working to meet those goals, including posting reports online Holds Agencies Accountable: Holds federal agency heads accountable by instituting stringent new reporting standards aimed towards a more effective, performance-based government Increases Transparency: Delivers to Congress and the American people comprehensive information, that is unavailable now, so Congress can make more informed budgeting decisions in the future Wednesday’s House passage of Congressman Cuellar’s legislation follows a recent announcement by the White House that directs non-security federal agencies to trim at least 5 percent from their budgets by identifying their worst-performing programs. The President’s request comes as Congress and the administration seek new ways to reduce the nation’s deficit through more efficient spending. "My bill will help reduce the deficit by rooting out government waste," said Congressman Cuellar. "This increases transparency, ensures effectiveness and helps assure the American people that their government is working for them." To view a fact sheet on Congressman Cuellar’s government efficiency bill, please visit: /UploadedFiles/Cuellar_Better_Budget_Bill_Fact_Sheet.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.11.2010	Members of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC), a bipartisan coalition dedicated to promoting trade as a tool to spur economic growth and job creation in the United States, hosted a trade policy briefing Wednesday with the Panamanian Ambassador to the United States Jaime Aleman. The meeting was attended by more than a dozen bipartisan members of Congress, including CPTC Chairman Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). "Trade is vital part of America’s economic engine. Trade fuels growth, creates jobs and supports millions of American workers," said Congressman Cuellar. "We are continuing to build the political will to pass the U.S. Panama Trade Promotion Agreement. These meetings ensure momentum is not lost to pass this and other economically beneficial trade policies for America." This week’s meeting was a second in a series between CPTC Members of Congress and diverse organizations involved in international trade. Members and the Ambassador engaged in a positive dialogue over the status of the agreement and several pro-trade lawmakers indicated that they will persist in their effort to pass the agreement this year. In 2007, the United States and Panama signed a Trade Promotion Agreement (TPA) that would improve U.S. access into Panama’s service-based economy. Panama's legislature approved the TPA overwhelmingly by 58 to 4 in July 2007. If approved by the U.S. Congress, the agreement would resolve tariff and other trade barriers between the two countries across multiple sectors, including manufacturing, technology and agriculture. A report by the United States International Trade Commission concluded that the TPA would greatly increase U.S. exports to Panama by removing tariffs on those products. Currently, 96% of imports from Panama enter the United States duty-free. "This trade agreement will offer tremendous opportunities to the United States and to Texas," said Congressman Cuellar. "By making U.S. exports to Panama duty-free, we can spur economic growth at home that sustains and creates jobs. Now is the time to pass meaningful trade policies that benefit the American people and spark economic growth." The bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC) is dedicated to advancing international trade policy that keeps the United States globally competitive. For more information on Congressman Cuellar’s involvement with other trade issues, please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3829 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111 th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.p>
06.07.2010	U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) today announced the success and further expansion of ICE’s Secure Communities strategy to south Texas. Secure Communities utilizes a biometric information-sharing capability to enable ICE to better identify aliens at the time they are fingerprinted and booked on criminal charges. Secure Communities, which was launched in Laredo (Webb County) last June, has led to the removal of more than 20,000 convicted criminal aliens from the country. Additionally, the biometric information-sharing capability is being expanded to 12 additional south Texas counties on Tuesday. “I applaud the efforts of ICE in working closely with our local law enforcement communities and for expanding this program into rural Texas,” said Rep. Cuellar. “Criminal elements are everywhere, and one of our duties is to ensure that our residents feel protected. This program makes sure that once a criminal’s immigration status has been determined, appropriate action is taken after offenders complete their prison term.” Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism. On June 16, 2009, Webb County launched ICE’s Secure Communities program. To date, the following 17 central and south Texas counties have implemented the program: Bell, Bexar, Dimmitt, Hidalgo, Kinney, Maverick, McLennan, Real, Starr, Travis, Uvalde, Val Verde, Webb, Willacy, Williamson, Zapata and Zavala. The newest 12 counties in south Texas include: Bandera, Edwards, Frio, Gillespie, Gonzales, Guadalupe, Hays, Karnes, Kendall, La Salle, Medina and Wilson. ICE expects nationwide coverage for all law enforcement agencies by the end of 2013. Formerly, during the booking process, arrestees’ fingerprints were checked for criminal history information only against the biometric database maintained by the FBI. With the implementation of Secure Communities, this fingerprint information is now automatically and simultaneously checked against both the FBI criminal history records and the biometrics-based immigration records maintained by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). If any fingerprints match those of someone in the DHS biometric system, the new automated process notifies ICE. ICE evaluates each case to determine the individual’s immigration status and takes appropriate enforcement action. This includes aliens who are in lawful status and those who are present without lawful authority. Once identified through fingerprint matching, ICE will respond with a priority placed on aliens convicted of the most serious offenses first – such as those with convictions for major drug offenses, murder, rape and kidnapping. “We want to make sure that our local law enforcement partners know as much as possible about the people in their custody,” said Alonzo R. Pena, deputy assistant secretary of the Department of Homeland Security for ICE. “By using sophisticated biometrics, the Secure Communities initiative allows us to quickly and accurately identify aliens who pose the greatest threat to our communities. And the program requires no additional costs to the local law enforcement agency.” “I acclaim the work of ICE in jointly working with my office on this technology initiative launched in 2009. This initiative has now enhanced the way these offenders are identified and processed,” said Webb County Sheriff Martin Cuellar. Secure Communities bolsters the ongoing joint efforts by ICE and participating law enforcement agencies in the United States. Secure Communities is DHS’ comprehensive strategy to improve andmodernize the identification and removal of criminal aliens from the United States. DHS’ US-VISIT Automated Biometric Identification System (IDENT) holds biometrics-based immigration records, while the FBI’s Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS) contains biometrics-based criminal records. The interoperability of these two systems, which is the information-sharing capability ICE uses through Secure Communities, currently is activated in 197 jurisdictions in 20 states. ICE does not regard aliens charged with, but not yet convicted of crimes, as “criminal aliens.” Instead, a “criminal alien” is an alien convicted of a crime. # ICE # U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is the largest investigative arm of the Department of Homeland Security. ICE is comprised of four integrated divisions that form a 21st century law enforcement agency with broad responsibilities for a number of key homeland security priorities. For more information, visit: www.ICE.gov. To report suspicious activity, call 1-866-347-2423.
06.02.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar and City of McAllen Officials today announced $972,145 for the McAllen Miller International Airport. The total amount comes from the Federal Aviation Administration. The money will be used for design studies, runway rehabilitation, drainage improvements, and wildlife hazard assessments. “As an important international airport in the country -- both for cargo and passenger traffic -- I congratulate Mayor Richard Cortez, City Commission Members, and Aviation Director Phillip Brown for once again being successful in securing more federal funds,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will have a tremendous impact in the hundreds of thousands of passengers that use this airport every year.” Specifically, the funds will be used for the following projects: $649,145: Terminal Expansion Phase 2 Design $171,000: Drainage Improvements Master Plan Study $71,250: Runway Safety Area Study $47,500: Wildlife Hazard Assessment $33,250: Runway Rehabilitation Last year, Congressman Cuellar announced more than $11 million in airport improvement projects for the McAllen Miller International Airport that included money for runway overlap and blast pad construction. This included $6 million in federal funds that helped repair the airport following Hurricane Dolly and also made an initial investment towards the airport’s terminal expansion. “With $125 million that were awarded last year for the levees thanks to the Recovery Act and now more than $12 million for the McAllen Miller International Airport, we are meeting and surpassing two goals I had for the City of McAllen when I first started representing this area,” said Congressman Cuellar.” For more information on grants, please call the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (956) 725-0639. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Oversight & Government Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.02.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, made the following statement regarding the first unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) flight over West Texas on Tuesday, June 1, 2010, by Customs and Border Protection Office of Air and Marine. Today, the Department of Homeland Security confirmed the UAV flight occurred over a portion of West Texas Tuesday. "On Tuesday, Customs and Border Protection took one more critical step to secure the nation’s southern border. This first UAV flight over West Texas marks the beginning of a critically important new means for providing homeland security in Texas. By putting eyes in the sky along the Rio Grande, we will gather real-time intelligence on the ground to augment the good work of federal, state and local law enforcement on the border. I applaud CBP’s initiative to further develop the UAV program in Texas and I look forward to FAA’s certification of flight for the remainder of the Texas-Mexico border this summer. In the meantime, I will continue to work with my Texas congressional colleagues to see this program through," said Congressman Henry Cuellar. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) approved, this May, CBP UAV flights from Arizona to Big Bend, Texas. Another flight approval is still pending before the FAA to enable UAV flights along the remainder of the Texas-Mexico border, in addition to the state’s coastal waters. FAA is expected to make a decision on that certification by late August. The first Texas-bound CBP UAV flew Tuesday from Arizona to New Mexico to the El Paso/Big Bend region of the state. Currently, there are five CBP Predator B UAVs deployed to the nation’s northern and southern borders. Three are stationed at the CBP Operations Center in Sierra Vista, Arizona, and two are located at the CBP Operations Center in Grand Forks, North Dakota. Since January, Congressman Cuellar has been working to create a UAV mission operations center in Corpus Christi, Texas. If approved by the FAA, the UAV stationed at this facility would have the ability to fly along the Rio Grande between El Paso and Brownsville, in addition to the Texas Gulf Coast. To learn more about CBP’s UAV program, please visit: http://www.cbp.gov/xp/cgov/border_security/air_marine/uas_program/uasoverview.xml ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.01.2010	Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-Austin) and Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) had a first-hand look at new technology that would allow federal agents patrolling the borders to disable the engines of boats and land vehicles from a distance without harm to occupants. The technology, developed by Applied Physical Electronics of Spicewood, TX, has the potential to strengthen border and port security by mitigating the risks involved in initial contact between law enforcement and suspected smugglers. “The ability to stop vehicles of smugglers from a distance without making direct contact would give our Border Patrol agents a distinct advantage,” said Congressman McCaul. “It would allow them to stop vehicles they may otherwise not be able to catch and in some cases avoid dangerous pursuits. These are the types of tools we need.” “This is cutting-edge technology to meet the spectrum of 21st century threats facing our borders and ports of entry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Technology like this puts one more tool in the toolbox for our federal law enforcement at the borders. It’s empowering equipment to combat illegal activity.” Applied Physical Electronics (APE) recently introduced the new security device known as the EMP Suitcase Compact 2100 Series. The equipment generates high amplitude electric fields that are strong enough to disable or defeat electronics without causing permanent physical damage or endangerment to individuals. EMP technology operates from inside a suitcase making it easily portable for use in a variety of security operations. Similar prototypes developed by APE have been used by the Department of Defense (DOD) for the past 12 years. Congressmen McCaul and Cuellar, who serve together on the House Committee on Homeland Security, are leading a bipartisan effort in Congress to identify the most effective and cost-efficient technology to augment security at the nation’s borders and ports of entry. Both believe in the value of incorporating new technology into the nation’s comprehensive strategy for homeland security. This Spring, the Texas lawmakers toured part of the Texas-Mexico border to see the use of DOD surveillance technology that has been used successfully in Iraq and Afghanistan. Shortly after the demonstration, Congressman McCaul passed an amendment through the House Committee on Homeland Security urging the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to consider the use of DOD technology along the northern and southern borders. Recently, both have also advocated the use of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) along the Texas-Mexico border. The remotely-piloted aircraft has the capability to monitor remote regions of the Rio Grande for up to 20 hours per flight to assist Customs and Border Protection in combating illegal activity. Similar aircraft currently provide the military critical surveillance intelligence abroad. Both lawmakers have been engaged with CBP and expect to have a UAV stationed in Texas by this fall. “DOD technology is proven, readily available and will further save taxpayer dollars by eliminating new research and development costs,” said McCaul. “This is a commonsense strategy for homeland security. Proven technology produced by companies such as Applied Physical Electronics could provide the same benefits.” “This is a forward-thinking approach to modernize our border against evolving threats,” said Cuellar. “Criminals, terrorists and combatants aim to do what we don’t anticipate. Technology can secure known security gaps.” # # #
05.28.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) voted to extend over $4 billion worth of vitally important tax cuts to hard-working families and supported legislation to fund the Department of Defense though 2011, including funding to create a new South Texas Joint Training Center in Tilden, Texas, for the Texas Air and Army National Guard. Both bills passed the House late Friday before Congress adjourned to recognize Memorial Day. “We are fulfilling a commitment to fully fund the nation’s military and our brave men and women in uniform,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This legislation is a critical part of supporting our national defense and ensuring we have the resolve to combat the spectrum of 21st century threats facing our country.” The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2011 makes record investments in the nation’s military by authorizing a $726 billion budget for the Department of Defense next year. Included in the legislation is federal funding to create a new South Texas Joint Training Center in Tilden, Texas for the Texas Air and Army National Guard. Congressman Solomon P. Ortiz (D-TX), Chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness, spearheaded the effort with Congressman Cuellar to secure the $5 million in federal funding necessary to develop the new center in South Texas. The new South Texas Joint Training Center in Tilden will make 25,000 acres of land available to the Texas Army National Guard and the Texas Air National Guard for joint maneuver training and individual unit training drills. This center will be a first of its kind major training center in South Texas, allowing local Texas military forces to train without having to travel long distances as they are forced to do today. “Congressman Ortiz is a longtime advocate for our nation’s military, ensuring their readiness, capabilities and support. He’s worked hard to secure the funds to establish this new training center in South Texas and now our local Texas National Guard can train and strengthen their readiness right here in our own community,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This will be a great benefit to the state and especially to South Texas.” The new training center will acquire approximately four ranches adjacent to the Dixie bombing range located in McMullen County, Texas, approximately 65 miles west of Corpus Christi. The primary Texas Air National Guard and Texas Army National Guard units located in this region are the 3rd Battalion 141st Infantry, the 1st Battalion 141st Infantry, the 386th Engineer Battalion, the 149th Fighter Wing and the 147th Fighter Wing. Following House passage Friday, the Defense Authorization Act will move forward to the U.S. Senate. The funding for the new training center will need to be approved by the Senate before the President signs the measure into law. For more information on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), please visit: http://armedservices.house.gov/pdfs/HASCFY11NDAA051910.pdf For more information on the complete list of tax cuts included in H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010, please visit: http://waysandmeans.house.gov/press/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=11185 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.20.2010	On Wednesday, officials from Customs and Border Protection (CBP) briefed Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) on the unmanned aircraft system expected to patrol the Texas-Mexico border by this fall. The technical briefing reviewed the operational capacities of the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), in anticipation of an impending flight approval from the Federal Aviation Administration. Today, Congressman Cuellar and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison will meet with FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt to review the status of the pending Certification of Authorization (COA) for UAV flight along the Texas-Mexico border between El Paso and Corpus Christi, Texas, in addition to the Texas coastline along the Gulf of Mexico. "This is a homeland security priority and we need to know where FAA is in the approval process," said Congressman Cuellar. "Last week, FAA gave CBP approval to fly from Arizona to West Texas, and now we need clearance for the remaining 1,200 miles of the Texas southern border." Pending FAA approval, the remotely-piloted aircraft could provide CBP with air, land and marine intelligence to combat illegal activity along the Rio Grande and Texas coastal waters along the Gulf of Mexico. If the flight track is approved by the FAA, CBP would have the operational capability to deploy a Predator B land-based aircraft or a dual purpose land-marine Guardian Maritime aircraft to the Texas-Mexico border this year. The CBP-operated UAV would provide real-time actionable information to border patrol agents on the ground. This would allow border patrol agents to immediately deploy response vehicles, boats, helicopters or other aircraft to security situations along the border, as is border security practice in other southern border states where UAVs operate. "These aircraft will increasingly become a familiar means for providing homeland security," said Congressman Cuellar. "The real time intelligence they provide will benefit our domestic security strategy and give us a new tool to meet the evolving threats of the 21st century. CBP has a vision to expand this border security program and Texas is a part of that plan." Wednesday’s meeting between Congressman Cuellar and CBP officials from the Office of Air and Marine, was in advance of Thursday’s meeting with the FAA Administrator to review the status of the pending certification of authorization. Congressman Cuellar, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, will relay to FAA how this certification is a homeland security priority and critically important to securing 1,200 miles of the nation’s southern border. "I still expect that we could see a UAV flying in Texas by this fall," said Congressman Cuellar. "CBP has relayed to me logistical preparations for a UAV program specific to Texas and those preparations are a good sign as we wait for FAA approval." Currently, CBP Air and Marine operate several Predator B unmanned aircraft systems along the northern and southern borders of the United States. These remotely piloted aircraft have a long duration of flight, up to 20-30 hours, and have provided to the Department of Homeland Security critical national intelligence information to secure the nation’s land borders. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.17.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) joined his colleagues in the House Committee on Agriculture for a field hearing in Lubbock, Texas, to review U.S. agriculture policy with Texas farmers and ranchers as the Committee begins the process of writing the 2012 Farm Bill. Congressman Cuellar, who represents over 11,300 farms and ranches in addition to over seven million acres of farmland in his congressional district, is the only Texas democratic member of Congress who serves on the House Agriculture Committee. "I am working hard to ensure Texas has a voice in the 2012 Farm Bill," said Congressman Cuellar. "Thousands of farmers and ranchers in Texas rely on the assistance of this critically important legislation. This is why it is so important to engage in a first-hand dialogue with our agricultural producers in Texas." Monday’s meeting was one of eight national field hearings in advance of the 2012 Farm Bill. Producers representing a spectrum of agricultural goods, including dairy, citrus, corn, cotton, cattle, wheat, vegetable, rice, sugar and soybean, met with over half a dozen House lawmakers including Agriculture Chairman Collin Peterson (MN-7) and Texas Congressmen Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) and Mike Conaway (TX-11). The U.S. Farm Bill is passed by Congress every four to six years and is the federal government’s primary agriculture and food policy mechanism for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The 2012 Farm Bill is expected to create and extend federal assistance programs for the nation’s agricultural commodities, including disaster and flood relief, rural development, conservation and agricultural research, in addition to extending national food and nutrition programs. The last Farm Bill was passed in 2008. "This is the nation’s primary vehicle to create better policy for our farmers and ranchers," said Congressman Cuellar. "In my district, agriculture is a major player in our local economy with producers growing a cornucopia of products that are important to trade and jobs. This new Farm Bill will ensure that we meet the evolving needs of our farmers and producers." To learn more about the 2012 Farm Bill and other agriculture related legislation, please visit the House Committee on Agriculture http://agriculture.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
05.14.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, today announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has approved a Certification of Authorization (COA) for an unmanned aerial vehicle to patrol a portion of the U.S. Mexico border extending from Arizona to the El Paso region of Texas effective Tuesday, June 1, 2010. This is one of two COAs that have been submitted to FAA to approve the flights of unmanned aerial vehicles along the Texas-Mexico border. “This is the first of two steps in getting unmanned aircraft vehicles approved to patrol the entire Texas-Mexico border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is very good news for Texas, as we seek to provide additional security measures along the Rio Grande in light of escalated border violence. However, more needs to be done. I will continue to push for the second pending COA when I meet with the FAA Administrator next week on May 20th.” Congressman Cuellar has long advocated for an additional COA currently pending before the FAA. If approved, this COA would approve the use of an UAV from El Paso to Corpus Christi, Texas. The Arizona to El Paso COA announced Friday is one of two certifications to ensure the entire Texas border will be approved for UAV flights. For more information, media partners can contact Ashley Patterson at (202) 812-1193 or email Ashley.patterson@mail.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
05.12.2010	Today, Members of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus, a bipartisan coalition dedicated to promoting trade as a tool to spur economic growth and job creation in the United States, hosted a trade policy briefing with Han Duk-soo, the Ambassador to the Republic of Korea. The meeting was attended by more than a dozen bipartisan members of Congress who advocated positive dialogue to promote the pending Free Trade Agreement between the United States and Korea, commonly known as KORUS. Wednesday’s meeting was a first in a series between pro-trade Members of Congress and diplomatic officials representing Korea, Panama and Columbia. Members will continue to meet with organizations, businesses and government entities affected by trade. As an advocate for trade and representative to the nation’s largest inland trade port in Laredo, Texas, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) founded the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus last year. "Trade is vital part of America’s economic engine. Trade fuels growth, creates jobs and supports millions of American workers," said Congressman Cuellar. "It is time to level the playing field and expand our horizons by passing these pending Free Trade Agreements. This bipartisan trade coalition shows we’re gaining the political momentum to make that happen." The bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (CPTC) is dedicated to repairing the trade dialogue and advancing an international trade policy that keeps the United States globally competitive. Since 2009, Congressman Cuellar and his colleagues have been in dialogue with the White House, business groups and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk to discuss pending agreements. The United States and the Republic of Korea signed the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) on June 30, 2007. If approved by Congress, the agreement would be the United States’ most commercially significant FTA in nearly two decades. Reports indicate that if approved, the KORUS FTA would increase the U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by $10-$12 billion annually and nearly 95 percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial sectors would become duty free within three years of enactment. During the trade meeting, members discussed with the Korean Ambassador how different industrial producers in their respective states and congressional districts would benefit by this agreement, in addition to pledging their support to pass the agreement in Congress. Members of the bipartisan Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus (several of whom attended Wednesday’s meeting) include: Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) Congressman Mike McCaul (R-TX) Congressman Joseph Cao (R-LA) Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Congressman Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX) Congressman Walt Minnick (D-ID) Congressman Jim Moran (D-VA) Congressman Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) Congressman Pete Olson (R-TX) Congressman Solomon P. Ortiz (D-TX) Congressman Aaron Schock (R-IL) "This meeting was one of many steps we will take to gather the necessary votes to pass this FTA," said Congressman Cuellar. "In my home state of Texas, hard-working families rely on this partnership as Korea is the state’s fifth-largest trading partner. Last year, two-way trade between Texas and Korea was valued at over $5.3 billion, and increasingly Korea is a growing market for goods made in Texas. This is good for local jobs." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.06.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that a landmark veteran caregiver bill passed by Congress two weeks ago is now law. The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act provides unprecedented new benefits to veteran caregivers including training, counseling, health care and financial assistance. President Obama signed the bill into law late Wednesday. “This landmark legislation stands by our troops and supports those caregivers who continue to stand with them,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Everyday, millions of military families support men and women in uniform, making sacrifices for the sake of our country. These caregiver benefits are vitally needed and well-deserved.” The act provides support services to family and other caregivers of all veterans, including stipends for caregivers living with severely wounded veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. The act will also create two distinct caregiver programs within the Department of Veterans Affairs, one for all caregivers and one specifically designed for those supporting Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. Caregivers are defined as family members of veterans or non-family members who live with a veteran. Training, education, counseling, mental health services, lodging, financial assistance and subsistence payments for accompanying veterans on medical care visits will be provided to qualifying caregivers as a result of this legislation. In addition, caregivers will be provided health care services through the Civilian Health and Medical Program (CHAMPVA) of the Department of Veterans Affairs. “This bill addresses the unique needs of today’s veterans and their families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With this legislation, we uphold a promise to our troops and their support systems at home. This commonsense legislation helps our brave men and women as they return home from overseas and this will continue to support those millions of veterans who have already served our great nation.” To address the unique needs of the growing number of returning women soldiers, the act also improves health care services for the nation’s 1.8 million female veterans and for the first time provides up to seven days of post-delivery health care to a newborn of a female veteran. The veterans’ legislation also improves access to care for veterans in rural areas by improving VA transportation services to veterans living in remote regions. Servicemen and women will also have access to counseling and other mental health centers, including members of the National Guard and Reserves who served during Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom, but are no longer on active duty. A broad coalition of veterans groups including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Wounded Warriors Project and the National Military Family Association support the landmark legislation. For more information, please visit the House Committee on Veterans Affairs: http://veterans.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=583 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
05.05.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined southern border lawmakers and top security officials from the United States and Mexico to discuss the state of affairs between the two countries on Cinco de Mayo, a day which marks the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862. Congressmen Solomon Ortiz (D-TX) and Harry Teague (D-NM) hosted the Capitol Hill meeting between the group of border lawmakers and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Mexico Interior Secretary Fernandez Gomez-Mont, Mexico Ambassador to the United States Arturo Sarukhan, ICE Assistant Secretary John Morton and CBP Commissioner Alan Bersin. "Today, we celebrate the important contributions of Mexican Americans throughout this country and we recognize the mutual priorities shared between the United States and Mexico," said Congressman Cuellar. "Cinco de Mayo has long been a symbol of unity and patriotism in Mexico’s history and we will continue to support Mexico in its endeavors to uphold safety and civility for its people." The group of border lawmakers discussed with Secretary Napolitano, Secretary Mont and other top border officials shared priorities between the U.S. and Mexico, including the $1.3 billion Merida Initiative, a cooperative partnership between the two countries to thwart drug-related violence. Officials from both countries agreed that a second Merida Initiative is necessary as funding for the current program expires later this year. Officials also recognized an increase in southern border violence, in particular that along Arizona’s southern border and the Texas-Mexico border along the Rio Grande. Texas members voiced specific concerns on how the recent violence is affecting cross-border trade. "The popular consensus is that the violence has continued along the border. While both governments are doing what they can to stem the tide, our communities have been affected," said Congressman Cuellar, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism. "Both CBP and ICE have made substantial progress over the past year in the number of interdictions, seizures and arrests. Still, we need to make specific investments that strengthen judicial systems and social programs in Mexico." Mexico’s Interior Secretary Mont highlighted Wednesday a new Federal Police Command Center (FPCC) that was established in Ciudad Juarez as a center for interagency coordination and intelligence gathering. Mont reiterated how the flow of weapons from the United States to Mexico is an ongoing problem, in addition to the level of drug consumption in the United States which continues to finance cartel operations. Earlier this week, Secretary Napolitano highlighted ongoing efforts on behalf of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the unparalleled level of collaboration between the U.S. and Mexico to combat cartel-related violence and illegal trafficking. According to DHS, illegal traffic across the Southwest border has decreased by 23 percent in the past year and the number of border patrol agents has doubled from 10,000 in 2004 to 20,000 in 2010. Since March 2009, DHS reports that it has doubled the number of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) personnel assigned to Border Enforcement Security Task Forces and that DHS has expanded the Secure Communities Initiative—which uses biometric information to identify and remove criminal aliens in state prisons and local jails—from 14 to 118 locations. Since 2007, Congress has increased CBP funding from $8.2 billion to $10.1 billion, and provided an additional $1 billion for border security in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Last month, border lawmakers, led by House Select Intelligence Chairman Congressman Silvestre Reyes (D-El Paso), requested from Congress over $400 million in emergency funding to augment border patrol hires and communications capabilities among Customs and Border Protection (CBP). If approved by Congress, this funding would be included in the Iraq-Afghanistan war supplemental bill anticipated to move through Congress later this May. Wednesday’s meeting comes in advance of Mexican President Felipe Calderon’s address to a joint session of Congress later this month. To learn more about this and other border related issues, please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3833 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.30.2010	Washington, DC – Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement in response to a Commerce Department report released Friday that shows the U.S. economy grew swiftly in the first quarter of 2010, calling it a good sign as the nation continues on a path of economic recovery. According to the report, the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew at a rate of 3.2 percent between January and March. Consumer spending makes up approximately 70 percent of the nation’s GDP. "This marks three straight quarters of economic growth as our nation continues its economic recovery in the wake of the worst recession since the 1930s. This first quarter report is one more sign of good things to come as Americans renew their confidence in consumer spending. These numbers continuously show the economy is growing. With less job loss, more spending and more hiring, it is clear that the American economy is turning around. "After losing 8 million jobs since the recession began in 2007, we saw the single largest job growth in the past three years with an increase of 162,000 new jobs created in March. This was a sharp departure from the record-setting job losses of 2008 that totaled 2.6 million across the nation. Without a doubt, this Congress has helped steer our economy back on track under a direction aimed at helping average everyday people. In just one year, we’ve given tax cuts to 95 percent of all hard-working Americans, including 274,000 families in my district. "When we put money back in the pockets of these families, we see economic growth as this report indicates today. The nation’s gross domestic product is the pulse of the American economy and numbers indicate that it is beating strong. The more we can do to support consumers, help small businesses and hard-working families, the more resilient we’ll be in the long run. Today’s report is good news and it is clear that our economy is bouncing back." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.22.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) this week helped pass a landmark bill to help millions of veterans and their caregivers. The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act enhances female veterans’ benefits, improves military mental health services and provides unprecedented new benefits to veteran caregivers including training, counseling, health care and financial assistance. "This landmark legislation stands by our troops and supports those caregivers who continue to stand with them," said Congressman Cuellar. "Everyday, millions of military families support men and women in uniform, making sacrifices for the sake of our country. These caregiver benefits are vitally needed and well-deserved." On Wednesday, the House passed legislation that will provide support services to family and other caregivers of all veterans, including stipends for caregivers living with severely wounded veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. If signed into law by the President, this legislation would be a landmark investment in veteran caregiver assistance and support. The measure creates two distinct caregiver programs within the Department of Veteran Affairs, one for all caregivers and one specifically designed for those supporting Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. Caregivers are defined as family members of veterans or non-family members who live with a veteran. Training, education, counseling, mental health services, lodging, financial assistance and subsistence payments for accompanying veterans on medical care visits will be provided to qualifying caregivers under this bill. In addition, caregivers would be provided health care services through the Civilian Health and Medical Program (CHAMPVA) of the Department of Veterans Affairs. "This bill addresses the unique needs of today’s veterans and their families," said Congressman Cuellar. "With this legislation, we uphold a promise to our troops and their support systems at home. This is commonsense legislation to help our brave men and women return home from overseas and this will continue to support those millions of veterans who have already served our great nation." To address the unique needs of the growing number of returning women soldiers, the bill will improve health care services for the nation’s 1.8 million female veterans and for the first time provide up to seven days of post-delivery health care to a newborn of a female veteran. This legislation will also improve access to care for veterans in rural areas by improving VA transportation services to veterans living in remote regions. Servicemen and women will also have access to counseling and other mental health centers, including members of the National Guard and Reserves who served during Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom, but are no longer on active duty. The bill also supports the nation’s veterans by prohibiting the VA from collecting copayments from veterans who are catastrophically disabled. A broad coalition of veterans groups including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Wounded Warriors Project and the National Military Family Association support the bill’s passage. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.21.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is mailing 4.4 million postcards to the nation’s small businesses to inform them of tax cuts included in health care reform. Postcards will be delivered over the next two weeks to over 292,500 small businesses across Texas. “This is news you can use for Texas small businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Thousands of small businesses will immediately qualify for these valuable new tax cuts if they’re providing health insurance to their employees. So we are urging every small employer to take advantage of these cuts if they qualify.” Included in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act approved by Congress, and signed into law last month, are immediate tax provisions aimed at supporting small businesses and tax exempt organizations that provide health insurance to their employees. Businesses with fewer than 25 employees and with average annual wages of $50,000, that provide health insurance to their workers will qualify for tax cuts worth up to 35 percent of what they pay towards their employees’ premiums. In 2014, this tax cut increases to 50 percent for small businesses, generating thousands of dollars in savings for each small business. Eligible tax-exempt organizations also benefit from tax cuts of up to 25 percent of their share of employee health insurance premiums. It’s estimated that 60 percent of the nation’s smaller employers will qualify for these tax cuts. “Our post card mailing, which is targeted at small employers, is intended to get the attention of small employers and encourage them to find out more,” said IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman. “We want to make sure small employers across the nation realize that effective this tax year they may be eligible for a valuable new tax credit.” This April, Congressman Cuellar toured the 28th Congressional District of Texas and met with several small business owners with fewer than 100 employees to discuss these immediate tax benefits and affordability credits that will help employers provide health insurance to their employees. In 2014, a state-based health insurance exchange will be created in Texas to help thousands of small businesses band together to purchase private health insurance at cheaper rates. “Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy,” said former small business owner Congressman Cuellar. “These are valuable, tangible tax cuts that make a difference on the balance sheet of everyday small businesses and they will benefit their hard-working employees.” For more information on these small business tax cuts and the affordability credits included in health care reform, please visit Congressman Cuellar’s health care website at /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3834. To calculate how small businesses can benefit from health care reform and these specific tax cuts, feel free to use the following tax credit calculator provided by the Small Business Majority organization: http://smallbusinessmajority.org/tax-credit-calculator/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.20.2010	Border Members of Congress, including Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), are urging the Speaker of the House to provide emergency funding to fight drug-related violence along the U.S. Mexico Border. In a letter signed by nine congressional members from Texas, Arizona, California and New Mexico, lawmakers call the recent upswing in border violence a demonstrated need for immediate funds to secure the border. “We are at a tipping point,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar, Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Border, Maritime, and Global Counterterrorism. “Either we immediately send additional resources to our border or we wait and watch the violence unfold across the Rio Grande. Our options are clear and we need Congress to move.” Congressman Cuellar represents 220 miles along the Texas southern border including his hometown of Laredo, Texas, positioned alongside the Rio Grande. Two weeks ago, an unknown attacker threw a bomb at the U.S. Consulate in Nuevo Laredo just across the river in neighboring Mexico. As a result of ongoing border violence, including the March double shootings of Americans in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, members of the Congressional Border Caucus, led by House Select Intelligence Chairman Silvestre Reyes of El Paso, last week sent a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi requesting that emergency funds to secure the southern border be included in the fiscal year 2010 emergency supplemental package. The bill is currently being drafted by the House Committee on Appropriations. “The violence facing Mexico is having a particular impact on our communities and our sister cities as the Mexican government clamps down on criminal organizations,” the members of Congress write in a letter singed April 16, 2010. “As members representing border districts, we have seen first hand the impact the violence has on communities on both sides of the border.” Two weeks ago, Congressmen Reyes, Cuellar and Ed Pastor of Arizona met with Mexico’s President Felipe Calderon to discuss the future of the $1.3 billion Merida Initiative, a cooperative effort between the United States and Mexico to combat drug and weapons trafficking. Multiple reports indicate that of the $830 million allocated to Merida since 2007, just $128 million has been received in military equipment and training in Mexico. “The popular consensus from both sides of the border is the need for speed,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Our border communities have braced themselves for a spillover of violence and the burden is falling on local law enforcement at home. This is why we have laid out a framework with concrete numbers for Congress to move on.” Topping the list is a request for $200 million to support law enforcement’s communications capabilities in remote areas along the border where there are known critical needs, plus an additional $50 million for Operation Stonegarden which assists the collaborative efforts of federal, state and local law enforcement in fighting border related violence, weapons and drug trafficking. All border members agree the nation’s land ports of entry are critical to securing the border and vitally important to trade. They requested $100 million to help Customs and Border Protection (CBP) sustain border agent salaries in the face of budget deficits at the nation’s land ports. In addition, they requested a minimum of $70 million to hire an additional 500 CBP officers to immediately alleviate understaffed ports of entry. An additional $32.2 million was requested to help CBP hire 207 border patrol agents for the southern border to avoid straining existing human resources or deplete CBP assets from other areas. Members also asked for $39.6 million to help prevent attempted cartel-corruption in CBP by drug trafficking-associated applicants. These funds would be used specifically to help the agency conduct background investigations and polygraph tests. “The will of governments and communities in the U.S. and Mexico to combat criminal elements is strong,” wrote U.S. Representatives Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Solomon Ortiz (D-TX), Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Bob Filner (D-CA), Harry Teague (D-NM), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Ciro Rodriguez (D-TX), Susan Davis (D-CA) and Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ). “And the United States and Congress must continue to honor that resolve with needed funding to aid those serving on the front lines at this critical juncture.” For more information or to view a copy of the letter, please visit: /UploadedFiles/Reyes-_PDF_FY10_Supplemental_Appropriations_Letter.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.19.2010	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and representatives from NASA, Texas Instruments, Mercedes-Benz Technology, the Imaginarium of South Texas, Texas A&M International University, Laredo Community College, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers and other technology professionals hosted three events in Laredo to educate hundreds of middle school students on the opportunities associated with careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM). Congressman Cuellar organized Monday’s events for students from Dr. Joaquin G. Cigarroa Middle School, Louis J. Christen Middle School, United Middle School and Clark Middle School, delivering remarks to students throughout the day as an advocate for higher education and equal educational opportunities. This is the first in a series of major STEM events the Congressman has planned for students throughout the 28th Congressional District of Texas. “Careers in these fields are the jobs of the future,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That is why we need to educate our students on the opportunities associated with science, technology, engineering and math. We can show them how science class connects to the real world.” According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 15 of the 20 fastest-growing occupations projected through 2010 and beyond will require substantial mathematics or science skills. It has been widely reported that the nation will face a labor shortage in these fields in the future. Only 31 percent of today’s college graduates in the United States have technical training in science and engineering compared to 66.2 percent in Japan and 59.4 percent in China. “By investing in our children’s education we ensure they are able to compete in the global market. This is vitally important to our nation’s economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I believe our communities have the intellectual capacity to compete in these fields now and into the future. That is why these events are so important; they can open up students’ eyes.” In a recent international assessment of 15-year-old students, the United States ranked 28th in math literacy and 24th in science. The United States ranks 20th among all nations in the number of 24-year-olds who earn degrees in natural science or engineering, according to a Congressional Research Service (CRS) report. Monday’s events in Laredo highlighted cutting-edge career opportunities in science and technology, including outer space engineering career tracks at NASA, geo-technical opportunities at Terracon and pharmaceutical careers at local HEB pharmacies. Other participants included Workforce solutions, IBC, Crane Engineering, Gilpin Engineering, Falcon International Bank, Tech Labs Inc., and Lab Resources Inc. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
04.14.2010	Today, performance-based budgeting legislation, authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), was center-stage at a House congressional hearing reviewing the oversight of federal financial management. The legislation calls for the nation’s federal programs to be assessed at least once every five years to ensure that federal taxpayer dollars are spent in an effective way. Congressman Cuellar championed similar budget legislation into Texas law during his time as a Texas State Representative in the 1990s. “This common-sense legislation will bring to light the efficiency and effectiveness of federal programs. By assessing their performance, we can make better, more informed decisions in funding these programs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Americans live by budget principles everyday as they try to get the most for their hard-earned money. This should be a guiding principle in Washington.” H.R. 2142, The Government Efficiency, Effectiveness and Performance Improvement Act of 2009, would also require each federal program to submit public performance assessments to determine how effectively they meet established goals. In addition, annual assessment reports would be made available to Congress in conjunction with the President’s annual budget to provide members of Congress with critical information on federal agencies’ strengths and weaknesses. Congressman Cuellar introduced the legislation last year with fellow Blue Dog Coalition colleague Congressman Dennis Moore from Kansas. This January, the Blue Dog Coalition included the legislation as a critical component of the Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform. The group of fiscally-conservative Democrats has advocated the 15 point plan as a framework for reducing wasteful and unnecessary government spending and as a way to reduce the national deficit. “America’s small businesses make choices every day about how to maximize the effectiveness of often very limited resources. Similarly, the federal government should be making the tough decisions necessary in order to make the most out of every single taxpayer dollar,” said Representative Jim Matheson, Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications. “The Blue Dogs will continue to champion this commonsense legislation as part of our larger effort to advance elements of our comprehensive blueprint for fiscal reform.” When he served in the Texas State Legislature in the 1990s, Congressman Cuellar helped author similar legislation that is now Texas law. Other states, including North Carolina, Florida, Oregon, Louisiana and Minnesota have set forth similar budget performance guidelines to streamline state-spending. “Texas’ fiscal accountability system is the foremost system of its type of any state,” said John Barton representing the Texas Legislative Budget Board in his testimony to the Subcommittee on Wednesday. “During the past 15 years, 28 delegations of foreign government officials representing 38 countries have travelled to Austin to learn how Texas has implemented strategic planning, performance budgeting and performance monitoring,” Barton said. Wednesday’s hearing was the second congressional hearing advocating Congressman Cuellar’s performance-based budgeting legislation. “If Congress moves on this bill, we will immediately have a government-wide framework to measure the efficiency of our federal programs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This has worked in Texas and it’s good for the rest of the country. Americans understand what it means to be fiscally responsible.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.13.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that this tax day, April 15, 2010, millions of American families, businesses and hard-working Texans will see lower taxes and larger refunds thanks to the economic stimulus package passed by Congress in 2009, and the health care reform and jobs bills signed into law this year. “These are record-setting tax cuts for 95 percent of the nation’s hard-working families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “For the majority of Americans, tax refunds are up an average of ten percent thanks to the unprecedented action we’ve taken to lower taxes. This puts hard-earned money back into the pockets of everyday people.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, also know as the “stimulus” package, has already provided over $160 billion in tax relief for families and businesses as a result of over 25 new tax cuts for individuals, homebuyers, small businesses and the self-employed. The non-partisan organization Citizens for Tax Justice estimates these tax cuts saved individuals and families an average of $1,158 on taxes this year. The “Making Work Pay” tax cut, passed by Congress, reduced withholding on wages in 2009 for most individuals by $400 and $800 for married couples. The Recovery Act also provided the “American Opportunity Credit” of up to $2,500 for college tuition, plus first-time home buyer credits worth $8,000. Health care reform included immediate tax cuts for the nation’s small businesses with fewer than 25 employees. If these businesses purchase health insurance for their workers and have average annual wages of $50,000 or less, they immediately qualify for tax credits of up to 35 percent of their employees’ premiums. Beginning in 2014, this increases to 50 percent of those premiums and it’s estimated that 60 percent of the nation’s small businesses will qualify for these tax cuts. “Health care reform was the single largest health care tax cut in American history,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Beginning in 2014, 40 million families, including thousands in my district, will benefit from tax credits making health insurance affordable. This is unparalleled action for hard-working families.” The Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act also provides a payroll tax holiday to businesses that hire unemployed workers and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain those employees. Signed by the President this year, HIRE also includes small business capital expenditure tax credits of up to $250,000, letting small businesses benefit from tax cuts in these tough economic times. “When you add up the benefits, there are more tax cuts for average Americans and small businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is good for our families and for those hard-working people at home.” For a list of tax cuts included in the Recovery Act, health care reform, the HIRE Act and other legislation, please visit: http://majorityleader.gov/docUploads/TaxBreaks2010.pdf To see the Citizens for Tax Justice report, please visit: http://ctj.org/pdf/truthaboutobamataxcuts.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.08.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) returned late Wednesday from a senior congressional delegation visit to Mexico City for meetings with President Felipe Calderon and other high-ranking government officials to discuss the future of the Mérida Initiative, ongoing border security and the recent escalation in southern border violence along the Rio Grande. House Permanent Select Intelligence Committee Chairman Silvestre Reyes (D-TX) led the delegation visit with Congressman Cuellar and Senior House Appropriations Committee member Congressman Ed Pastor (D-AZ). Congressman Cuellar, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, plans to make official recommendations for the future of the $1.3 billion commitment to Mexico, known as the Mérida Initiative, during an April 15th meeting with State Department officials in Washington who are responsible for overseeing the program. “During our meeting with President Calderon, we discussed the future of Mérida and what we can do in Washington to immediately move resources faster to Mexico,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Looking forward, we need to explore how we can establish longer-term assistance to Mexico through an expansion of Mérida. But first, we have to streamline what we have now.” On the heels of the visit, Congressman Cuellar will hold an official congressional hearing in April to receive testimony from the State Department on the status of the Mérida program which began in 2007. The three year commitment is now in its final year and Cuellar believes Congress needs to discuss a longer-term strategy for handling drug-related violence and the future stability of Mexico. It has been widely reported that of the estimated $830 million that Congress has appropriated for military equipment and training to Mexico through Mérida, an estimated $128 million worth of equipment has been received. On March 23, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced a new strategic vision to streamline Mérida’s future centered on building more resilient communities by strengthening institutions, law enforcement, judicial systems and updating border technology to 21st century standards. “The consensus between the United States and Mexico is that we need a forward-thinking strategy built on more interoperability between our law enforcement and more direct investments in stabilizing local Mexican communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “President Calderon said we’ll begin to see a similar initiative unfold in Ciudad Juarez that is centered on strengthening rule of law and expanding investments in social and economic infrastructure.” Congressman Cuellar has long advocated for more legitimate trade and commerce investments in the nations’ land ports as a way to create more economic strength in Mexico. In 2009, he authored legislation calling for the creation of a high-level U.S. Mexico Commission that would streamline law enforcement initiatives between the two nations and increase interoperability between information-gathering agencies. President Obama signed his legislation into law last year. During this visit, Congressman Cuellar and Mexican officials also discussed the political situation in Mexico and the upcoming 2012 elections following the end of President Calderon’s term. The President of Mexico serves one six-year term in office and is not eligible for reelection. The next presidential election in Mexico is scheduled for July 1, 2012. “Our mutual security relies on political stability in Mexico,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is why we have to consider how we can create institutional stability in Mexico between now and 2012 to ensure a smooth political transition in the future. It’s time to plan ahead.” Moving forward, Congressmen Cuellar, Reyes and Pastor will continue to make recommendations to Congress regarding Mexico and the Mérida Initiative program, in addition to matters related to ongoing southern border security. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.06.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that Texans can start applying for the Texas Trade Up Appliance Rebate Program beginning Wednesday, April 7, 2010. The state-run appliance rebate program will provide $23 million worth of rebates towards the purchase of more energy-efficient, cost-saving home appliances. Texans can apply for rebates online and over the phone starting Wednesday. “This common sense program is a win-win for Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Texas Trade Up will help thousands of families, consumers and homeowners make cost-saving investments in their homes. A little incentive goes a long way in these tough economic times.” Similar to the popular “Cash for Clunkers” program, Texas Trade Up is a first of its kind in Texas. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by Congress in 2009, made over $300 million available to the Department of Energy to create similar rebate programs across all states. Rebates vary from $45-$1,600 for refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, dishwashers, water heaters and other typical home appliances. Rebates will help Texans replace old, but functional, appliances with new ENERGY STAR or CEE (Consortium for Energy Efficiency) qualified appliances. The Texas State Energy Conservation Office (SECO) will oversee the program to assist thousands of families trade up their less-efficient appliances for newer energy-saving appliances. Texans can reserve their rebates starting April 7th at 7 a.m. CT by visiting www.texaspowerfulsmart.org or by calling toll-free 1-(877) 780-3039. The purchase period for most appliances is April 16-25. “By investing in energy-efficient appliances, consumers can save on their electric and water bills now and into the future,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is a smart program for Texas and a good local stimulus as appliances will have to be purchased within our state.” Consumers can receive rebates of up to $1,000 towards the purchase of an energy-efficient central air conditioning unit, plus an additional $75 for choosing to recycle their old one. Other rebates include up to $215 for qualifying dishwashers and up to $255 for clothes washers and freezers. Rebate checks will be distributed through the mail and SECO is urging all Texans to move fast beginning April 7th to reserve their rebates as funds are limited. For more information on the Texas Trade Up Appliance Rebate Program, please visit: http://www.texaspowerfulsmart.org/rebate/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.31.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement after President Obama released a proposal to open vast offshore coastal regions to oil drilling. The five-year plan will allow, for the first time, oil and natural gas drilling off the East Coast of the United States and parts of the Gulf of Mexico pending a reversal of a Congressional moratorium. The initiative signals a major shift in the future of the nation’s domestic energy policy. "I applaud President Obama for taking a critical first-step in expanding our domestic oil production by opening up offshore areas to oil and natural gas drilling. I have been a long-time advocate for an ‘all of the above’ approach to energy production, and I have repeatedly called for a positive shift in our nation’s domestic energy policy that includes offshore coastal drilling. I look forward to working with the President to put this proposal into practice and moving towards greater energy independence." Background: Congressman Cuellar has been a long-time supporter of offshore coastal drilling as a means to secure the nation’s energy supply. As an advocate for an ‘all of the above’ domestic energy approach, Congressman Cuellar supports alternative and renewable energy production, in addition to natural gas, oil, clean coal and nuclear energy. In 2006, Congressman Cuellar crossed party lines during the 109th Congress to support H.R. 4761, legislation calling for increased drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Last September, Congressman Cuellar joined his colleagues in sending a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar requesting additional offshore coastal drilling beginning in 2010 through 2015 as a means to shore up the nation’s domestic oil supply. To see a copy of that letter, visit: /UploadedFiles/OCS_5YR_Plan_Letter_9_16_09.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.26.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement after voting in support of the Senate Amendments to H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. With this passage, the health care reform reconciliation package moves to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Upon the President’s signature, the entire health care reform plan will move forward, thus enacting the most comprehensive health care policy in United States’ history. "Tonight, we are one signature away from enacting the most historic health care plan in our nation’s history. With this bill, we ensure all Americans have equal access to health care by creating a plan to insure 32 million Americans, including 202,500 constituents in my district. By 2014, this landmark initiative will protect over 250 million Americans from losing their health insurance by banning health insurance companies from dropping insurance, capping coverage and denying coverage all together. This historic vote is a pivotal moment for our country. Texas, as the most uninsured state in the nation, will be one of the greatest beneficiaries of this bill and my constituents will gain coverage, health care access and affordability for the future." To calculate how this health care reform plan will benefit individuals and families through health care coverage, visit this Washington Post health insurance calculator: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/what-health-bill-means-for-you/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.21.2010	Today, members of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, including U.S. Representatives Solomon Ortiz (TX-27), Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Charlie González (TX-20), Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15), Al Green (TX-9), Gene Green (TX-29), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Silvestre Reyes (TX-16) and Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23) released the following statement in support of H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010: "As members of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, we joined together today to support this landmark health care reform legislation to deliver coverage to the most uninsured state in the nation and our communities which lead the country in the number of uninsured. "This pivotal moment in our nation’s history will deliver affordable, accessible health care coverage to all Americans, and this plan will take a stand against rising premiums in Texas which have doubled over the past decade. No longer will our families have to compromise their health because they can’t afford health insurance, and no longer will insurance companies discriminate against our constituents based on pre-existing conditions, gender or illness. "With our vote, over 1.4 million children in Texas will finally get health insurance, and together we will help deliver coverage to over 1 million individuals in our districts and 5 million other Texans across the state. For these reasons, we stand together in supporting this landmark health care reform legislation to strengthen America’s health care system and sustain the quality of our nation’s health care for the future." ###
03.21.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted in support of the landmark health care reform plan, H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. The bill will expand coverage to 5.9 million uninsured Texans, including 1.4 million children and 202,500 uninsured individuals in the 28th Congressional District. The legislation also makes unprecedented investments in Medicare, provides affordability credits for small businesses and bars insurance companies from discriminating against individuals with pre-existing conditions or illnesses. “This is a pivotal moment for the nation and for Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These common sense reforms will protect Americans who have coverage and deliver coverage to those who don’t. Quality, affordable health care will be accessible to all Americans and these landmark insurance reforms will sustain the quality of America’s health care for the future.” The historic health care legislation passed the House late Sunday. The plan will provide health insurance to an additional 32 million individuals, while ensuring 95% of all Americans have coverage. By creating state-based health insurance exchanges, small business workers and millions of low to middle income Americans will be able to choose from a variety of different health insurance plans beginning in 2014. These individuals will also qualify for affordability credits and health subsidies to afford the coverage. Under the plan, over a dozen key provisions will immediately take effect in 2010, including small business tax credits for employers who offer coverage to 25 or fewer employees, $250 rebate checks to Medicare beneficiaries who hit the Medicare Part D “Donut Hole”, free preventive care for seniors enrolled in Medicare, 50 percent discounts on prescription drugs under Medicare, eligibility extensions for children up to the age of 26 to stay enrolled in their parents health care plans, bans on insurance practices that cap annual and lifetime coverage, bans on dropped coverage for patient illness, and immediate investments in community health centers across the nation, including 27 clinics in the 28th Congressional District. “These are immediate reforms that will improve health care for my constituents,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Over 298,000 of my constituents who have coverage will immediately be protected from discriminatory insurance practices like unfair premium hikes and insurance caps on annual coverage. These are common sense reforms that make good sense for the country.” By making historic investments in the Medicare Trust Fund, extending its solvency from 2017 to 2026, over 94,000 seniors in Congressman Cuellar’s district will immediately gain access to free preventive and wellness care. Beginning this year, the reforms will start closing the Medicare Part D “Donut Hole” and this will help 5,800 seniors in the 28th District who have been forced to pay the full cost of their prescription drugs under Medicare. Beginning this year, the legislation will allow young adults to remain on their parents’ policies until they turn 26. Over 68,000 young adults in the 28th District would qualify for this option. For individuals under 30, this bill creates new inexpensive policies that allow them to obtain protection from catastrophic health care costs. Small businesses with fewer than 50 employees will qualify to participate in the new health insurance exchanges that allow small business to band together to get lower rates. Over 14,200 small businesses in Congressman Cuellar’s district will qualify for these exchanges and employers with 25 or fewer employees will earn tax credits if they provide insurance for their workers. There is no mandate in the health care reform plan requiring small businesses to provide their employees coverage. “Small businesses need a leg up in these hard economic times,” said Congressman Cuellar, a former small business owner. “Increasingly in Texas, small businesses are getting priced out of the system. This plan will give them more buying power by allowing them to band together with other small businesses in the state health insurance exchange.” Congressman Cuellar’s district is the third most uninsured in Texas and the tenth most uninsured of 435 congressional districts in the country. One of every three constituents does not have health care coverage and this legislation would help more than 202,500 individuals in his district gain access to care. By getting coverage to these individuals, hospitals in Congressman Cuellar’s district can reduce the cost of uncompensated care by $26 million. In addition, the 27 community health centers in the 28th District will receive $35 million in new assistance under the plan as part of a nationwide effort to expand primary care. Some estimates show that Texas could gain $120 billion in federal funding through an expansion in Medicaid, investments in the medical workforce and training, and federal cost-sharing assistance for expanded coverage. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this health care plan is fully-paid for by cost-saving investments. CBO estimates that this legislation will reduce the national deficit by $1.5 trillion in the next two decades. As a member of the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition, Congressman Cuellar strongly supports the deficit-reducing provisions of the bill. “This was a vote for my district, my constituents, their families, seniors and small businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “At the end of the day, you must put aside politics and vote for your district. The health care needs in my district justify the good reforms in this plan. This is an historic turning point for our country, for Texas and for the health care needs of my constituents.” To view a list of the legislation’s supporters, please visit: http://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/reports?id=0323 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.20.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released the following statement in advance of a pending House vote on H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010: “From the beginning, I have wanted to provide what’s in the best health care interest for the people of the 28th Congressional District of Texas. As residents of the third most uninsured district in Texas and one of the ten most uninsured districts in the nation, my constituents face tremendous health care needs. Texas is the most uninsured state in the nation, with premiums rising faster than wages. Nearly six million hard working Texans, 28 percent of the state population, have no health insurance and for those who do, premiums have doubled in the past decade, nearly a 104 percent increase. This means, Texas is on a health care path that is preventing families from keeping their insurance and this is putting millions of Texans’ health in jeopardy. Families in Texas need more affordable coverage, more access and more choices than they have today. Our small businesses need more buying power and tax cuts to keep their employees covered and employed. And over 1.4 million children in Texas still need health insurance. For these reasons, I have thoughtfully and thoroughly analyzed how this health care reform plan will benefit the constituents of the 28th District of Texas and the rest of my state. As a Blue Dog Democrat, I am pleased that the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has determined this plan will reduce the deficit by nearly $1.5 trillion in the next two decades while it is fully paid-for. In a time of extreme economic challenges, this is a pivotal moment for the nation to stem rising premiums and begin containing health care costs for the future. No longer can we stand idle as Americans compromise their health because they can’t afford to get care. Therefore, I have determined that H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, will benefit my district and my constituents. Of any state in the nation, Texas stands to gain the most from this health care package, bringing an estimated $120 billion in health care funding to our state’s economy. The cost of inaction is far greater than the investment for these reforms. After many discussions and numerous meetings with my constituents, their families, the uninsured, insured, local businesses, physicians, health practitioners, nurses, local hospitals, community clinics, local officials, statewide officials, educators, community leaders, local advocates and religious leaders, and after a thorough reading of the bill, the changes and several legal analyses, I have decided to stand in support of this plan for health care reform.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.18.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, today released a letter signed by the Congressional Border Caucus urging Senate leaders to swiftly confirm the President’s nominee to lead Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in the wake of escalated Southern Border violence and the thwarted terrorist attack on Christmas Day Flight 253. Since January 3, an Acting Commissioner has filled the post following the retirement of Jayson P. Ahern. “Now is not the time for U.S. Customs and Border Protection to be without a permanent leader,” wrote the ten Members of Congress. “This agency needs to have a Commissioner with experience in border security and direction to ensure that our nation is in a position to be as safe and secure as possible.” In September 2009, President Obama nominated Alan Bersin to be confirmed as the Commissioner of CBP. Bersin is currently the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistant Secretary for International Affairs and Special Representative for Border Affairs. During the Clinton Administration, Bersin served as Special Representative for the Southwest Border to coordinate Border law enforcement from South Texas to Southern California. “Alan Bersin has nearly two decades of border law enforcement experience with a proven track record of securing our shared border with Mexico,” said Congressman Cuellar. “At a time of escalating violence just across the border, it’s time to put permanent leadership in place at CBP to set a direction and course of action for the future.” The letter, signed by ten Members of Congress from Texas, California, Arizona and New Mexico, was addressed to Senator Max Baucus, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and Senator Charles Grassley, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Finance. The Senate Finance Committee has jurisdiction over the confirmation of the CBP Commissioner. To see a copy of the letter, please visit: /UploadedFiles/Bersin_Letter.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.13.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Texas Secretary of State Hope Andrade, State Senator Eddie Lucio, Mission Mayor Norberto “Beto” Salinas, McAllen Mayor Richard Cortez, La Joya Mayor Billy Leo, Granjeno Mayor Vicente Garza, state and local officials, representatives from the Census, community advocates and local media, today advocated for the 2010 Census and encouraged all Hidalgo County residents to make themselves count by completing and mailing their Census forms by April 1, 2010. “This is a community-wide campaign to make Hidalgo County count,” said Cuellar. “It’s time to check your mailbox, fill out the form and mail it back. With only 10 questions, it takes just 10 minutes to complete and that can make a big difference for our community.” The 2010 Census aims to count all residents living in the United States. Information collected from the Census helps determine population size and other unique regional factors like average median incomes. This information, in part, helps determine how over $400 billion in annual federal funding is distributed to state, local and tribal governments. During the 2000 Census, the national participation rate was 72% and Texas had a statewide participation rate of 67%. According to the Census, Hidalgo County’s participation rate was significantly lower at 58%. “This means for the past decade, Hidalgo County has likely not received the necessary federal funding to support our pubic facilities,” said Cuellar. “Making yourself count with the 2010 Census will help make vital investments here at home.” “Full participation in the 2010 Census is crucial for our state. Without a complete count of all Texans in 2010, we risk losing representation and resources to meet our growing needs over the next decade,” said Andrade. “If Texans go uncounted, Texas will be short-changed.” This past week, the U.S. Census Bureau started mailing census forms to more than 400 million addresses nationwide and asked residents to mail the forms back by April 1. Forms are bilingual with English and Spanish questions, and pre-paid postage on the forms make them free to mail back. The U.S. Constitution requires a national Census once every 10 years and the 2010 Census is one of the shortest questionnaires in Census history. This year, the Census also aims to improve counts in historically undercounted areas, including communities along the Texas Southern Border, known as “hard to count” communities. In January, Congressman Cuellar, member of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, toured one of these communities, known as the San Carlos Colonia just outside of Laredo, with U.S. Census Director Robert M. Groves. For more information on the 2010 Census, please visit www.2010census.gov or visit www.cuellar.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.10.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) is one of the leading centrist members of Congress according to an in-depth report released by National Journal, a leading source of non-partisan reporting on nationwide politics and policy. The report analyzed how all 535 members of the House and Senate voted on key economic, social and foreign-policy issues during 2009. Based on 92 key votes in the House, National Journal ranked Congressman Cuellar the most centrist member of the Texas congressional delegation. “My philosophy is simple: put politics aside, and put common sense and the business of the people first,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I vote the values of my district. They expect me to represent what is best for every family—not just the Democratic families or Republican families. I’m an independent voice and my voting record reflects that.” National Journal ranked Congressman Cuellar as one of “The Centrists”, a group of members at the ideological center of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives. As number 216 of 435 members in the House, National Journal placed Congressman Cuellar at center of the House. The annual report, released by the non-partisan weekly periodical National Journal, evaluates voting records based on a ratings system used since 1981. A panel of National Journal editors and reporters compiled a list of 92 key congressional votes of 2009 and categorized each bill in one of three ways: economic, social and foreign policy. Members were then ranked from one to 435, depending on how they voted among liberals and conservatives on each category of votes. According to National Journal, Congressman Cuellar votes at the ideological center of the House. “I vote from the center, because I have an independent approach,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I’m focused on what is good for the taxpayers in the 28th District and if we had more people governing from the center, we could get a lot more done for the country.” As a fiscal-conservative, Congressman Cuellar is a member of the 54 member Blue Dog Coalition and the only member of the group from Texas. The coalition introduced in January, a 15 step plan for fiscal reform in Washington. In 2010, Congressman Cuellar helped pass Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) spending rules for Congress, as a way to rein in the nation’s deficits by balancing the nation’s budget. He also founded the bipartisan Pro Trade Caucus in Congress as a way to promote bipartisan initiatives to level the nation’s trade deficits and create more jobs. For more information on the National Journal report, please visit http://www.nationaljournal.com/njmagazine/nj_20100227_5816.php ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.08.2010	Today, members of the San Antonio Congressional Delegation, including Congressmen Henry Cuellar, Charles Gonzalez and Ciro Rodriguez, joined Census and local officials to encourage San Antonio residents to make themselves count with the 2010 Census by completing and mailing back their forms by April 1, 2010. “This is a community-wide campaign to make San Antonio count,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “It’s time to check your mailbox, fill out the form and mail it back. With just 10 questions, it takes 10 minutes to complete and that can make a big difference for our community.” The 2010 Census aims to count all residents living in the United States. Information collected from the Census helps determine population size and other unique regional factors like average median incomes. This information, in part, helps determine how over $400 billion in annual federal funding is distributed to state, local and tribal governments. “Every ten years, Americans have the opportunity and the duty to be counted for the Census,” said Congressman Charlie Gonzalez (TX-20). “The simple and confidential form is all it takes to be counted, but the returns are much greater. Not only does an accurate count encourage investments from the government, but it also attracts businesses to our communities. The businesses will go where the people are and as one of the fastest growing cities in America, San Antonio will attract many new economic opportunities.” During the 2000 Census, the national participation rate was 72% and Texas had a statewide participation rate of 67%. According to the Census, Bexar County’s participation rate was slightly higher than the state average at 72%. “Getting an accurate picture of how many people there are in Texas is important in leveraging federal resources,” said Congressman Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23). “It’s a simple process and I would encourage everyone to answer the ten simple questions asked on the Census forms. It only takes a few minutes and can make a world of difference in the types of services, projects and programs available in your community.” “At the time of the first U.S. census in 1790, the population of the country was approximately 3.9 million. Today, there are nearly 309 million Americans,” said Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21). “I represent one of the fastest growing congressional districts in the country and Texas is a growing state. One of the reasons it is so important to conduct the census in an honest and fair way is because it will help determine the number of congressional representatives for Texas.” Beginning next week, the U.S. Census Bureau will start mailing millions of census forms to over 400 million addresses nationwide and has asked residents to mail the forms back by April 1. Forms are bilingual with English and Spanish questions, and pre-paid postage on the forms make them free to mail back. The U.S. Constitution requires a national Census once every 10 years and the 2010 Census is one of the shortest questionnaires in Census history. This year, the Census also aims to improve counts in historically undercounted areas, including communities along the Texas Southern Border, known as “hard to count” communities. In January, Congressman Cuellar, member of the Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives, toured one of these communities along the Texas Southern Border with U.S. Census Director Robert M. Groves to raise awareness and promote participation for the 2010 Census. For more information on the 2010 Census and to track how forms are being mailed back, please visit www.2010census.gov. ###
03.04.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today helped pass a jobs package in the House that includes $13 billion worth of tax breaks for businesses to hire unemployed workers, plus a payroll tax holiday and increased tax write-offs for the nation’s small businesses. The package aims to help stabilize America’s small businesses while creating tax incentives to hire new workers. "This package immediately helps businesses hire unemployed workers while providing tax cuts to keep small businesses alive," said Congressman Cuellar. "As a former small business owner, I understand how valuable these tax cuts are and how tax breaks can be a lifeline to small businesses in these tough economic times." The House passed H.R. 2847, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act, by a bipartisan vote of 217 to 201 Thursday. The package provides employers with incentives to hire and retain new employees by exempting employers from paying the employer share of social security taxes in 2010 (6.2% of the first $106,800 in wages) if the new employee had been unemployed for at least 60 days. The bill also provides employers with a $1,000 income tax credit for every new employee they continue to employ for 52 weeks and includes a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers. In order to help small businesses recover from economic losses, the bill extends capital expenditure tax deductions up to $250,000 for small business expenditures in 2010. These combined business tax credits are estimated to create 300,000 jobs nationwide. "Passing this bill is an immediate measure to help get Americans back to work," said Congressman Cuellar. "In December, the House passed a robust jobs bill and today we’ve worked with the Senate to stop the stalling on the legislation and help American businesses hire new workers." In 2009, Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which provided small business tax credits and widespread tax cuts for 95% of all hard-working Americans. In fact, $4.2 billion in tax cuts went to working families across Texas, including over 274,000 families in the 28th District of Texas. Two months ago, the House passed the Jobs for Main Street Act to rebuild highways, expand small business lending and support new hires for schools, fire and police departments. The HIRE Act, which passed the House Thursday, is a revised bipartisan jobs bill aimed to provide businesses with immediate tax cuts to hire new workers. The new package also extends the Highway Trust Fund, allowing tens of billions of dollars in new infrastructure investments nationwide. Texas stands to gain $4.9 billion in highway transportation funds thanks to the extension provided by the bill. "Our highways in Texas move goods, commerce and agricultural products supporting hard-working Texans, small businesses, ranches and farms," said Congressman Cuellar. "That’s another reason why this bill is a good gain for Texas." Over the next 10 years, the HIRE Act is fully paid-for, as Congress will adhere to strict Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) spending rules authored by the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition, of which Congressman Cuellar is a member. This February, President Obama signed PAYGO back into law. Similar spending rules are credited with having helped create the fiscal surpluses of the 1990s. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.03.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined his colleagues in the fiscally-conservative Blue Dog Coalition to introduce legislation that would require the federal government to pay down the national debt and balance the nation’s budget by 2020. The Blue Dog "Balanced Budget Amendment" is a key component of the Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform, a comprehensive plan to immediately begin reducing the deficit by adhering to sound fiscal policies now and in the future. "American families are balancing their budgets, it’s time for Washington to follow suit," said Congressman Cuellar. "This common sense policy is an essential part of a broader plan to reduce the nation’s deficit with responsible spending. Balancing the budget is an effective step towards long-term fiscal sustainability." The Blue Dog "Balanced Budget Amendment" would require Congress to produce a balanced budget every fiscal year and require the President to submit a balanced budget in his or her annual transmission to Congress. Specifically, the plan would prohibit spending for a fiscal year from exceeding total revenue for that year unless Congress, by a three-fifths roll call vote of the House and Senate, authorizes the specific excesses. "The nation’s budget situation is fiscally unsustainable," said Congressman Cuellar. "At a time when Americans are growing increasingly concerned over mounting debt, this gets the country’s budget back on track and will help restore global faith in our domestic economy." The balanced budget measure, sponsored by Congressman Cuellar, also calls for a constitutional amendment requiring the federal government to balance the budget by the next decade. History shows that balancing the budget is an attainable goal. From 1998-2001, the U.S. achieved balanced budgets by adhering to Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) spending rules in Congress and enacting limits on discretionary spending. Forty-nine states currently require an annual balanced budget, including Texas. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.02.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today recognized the 9th Annual Read Across America Day, an annual reading motivation and awareness program to celebrate reading and literacy on March 2, the birthday of beloved children’s author Dr. Seuss. The National Education Association supports the program and expects over 45 million children and adults to participate today. "Reading and writing are fundamentally important life skills and that’s why we’re celebrating how important it is to read," said Congressman Cuellar. "Children and adults can expand the world around them by making reading a daily routine." National Read Across America Day recognizes how motivating children to read is an important factor in academic achievement. As a long-time literacy advocate, Congressman Cuellar believes education is one of the greatest equalizers in society. "Reading plays a pivotal role in building the foundation for academic success," said Congressman Cuellar. "The more we can do to help our children read, the more opportunities they’ll have in the future. This is a community-wide priority to advance literacy among our youth." Since coming to Congress, Congressman Cuellar has collected books of all kinds in his congressional offices to distribute to local public schools, libraries and youth organizations. Books include: children’s books, text books, study guides, books for young adults and families. Approximately, 50-100 books are collected weekly throughout Congressman Cuellar’s district. To learn more about donating books locally, please call Congressman Cuellar’s Washington D.C. office at (202) 225-1640. To learn about National Read Across America Day, please visit: http://www.nea.org/readacross/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.01.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), founding member of the Congressional Pro-Trade Caucus and U.S. Representative to the nation’s sixth largest trade port in Laredo, Texas, today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s trade policy agenda released today: "Trade has been a great stabilizer in our nation’s economic recovery and increased exports can help spur job creation and stabilize unemployment. That’s why it’s time to resolve our outstanding trade agreements to increase opportunities for American workers, farmers and businesses. By fostering increased trade with Panama, Colombia and Korea, we’ll have 21st Century trade deals that are better for America. I remain committed to these vitally important trade agreements and I urge President Obama to move forward with these negotiations to immediately strengthen and expand our exports abroad." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.26.2010	Today, the San Antonio Congressional Delegation including Congressmen Charles Gonzalez (TX-20), Lamar Smith (TX-21), Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23) and Henry Cuellar (TX-28), announced over $41 million in federal funding contracts to make vital upgrades to the Audie L. Murphy VA Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas. Included in the funding is a $37.2 million construction contract to build the new veterans’ Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center (PRC). "This new and improved Medical Center will provide the quality health care our men and women in uniform need and deserve," said Congressman Gonzalez. "I’m also pleased that with the expansion of this Center, many new jobs will be available in the region. This is a win-win for San Antonio and our deserving veterans." Funding for the Polytrauma Center project was appropriated in 2007 and today the Department of Veterans Affairs has awarded Robins and Morton, of Birmingham, Alabama $37, 250,000 to build the new three-story 84,000 square foot PRC. The center will include a polytrauma ward, physical medicine and rehabilitation services, prosthetics services and polytrauma research and support programs. The duration of the contract is one year and nine months. "When our wounded warriors return home to us, the Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center will help them heal and restore their quality of life. This new facility will be a major asset for Audie Murphy and San Antonio’s military community," said Congressman Lamar Smith. Over $4.2 million in federal funding will also complete the Ward 4A Upgrades/Expansion Project at Murphy VA Medical Center. The Department of Veterans Affairs has awarded Strategic Perspectives Development, LLC, of San Antonio the $4,284,823 construction contract. The project consists of general construction, mechanical and electrical work, plus upgrades to the ward’s fire alarm and fire protection system. "As our brave men and women continue to defend our freedoms here and abroad, we as a nation owe it to them to provide the best and most comprehensive healthcare we can. This Center will serve our Texas veterans by providing a broad range of immediate and long-term services, and I am very pleased to celebrate this funding with my Bexar County colleagues," said Congressman Ciro D. Rodriguez, who noted that this will be the fifth such polytrauma center in the nation, and the only one in the Texas region. "These federal funds come at a critical time when our younger veterans are returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan. The state of our nation’s veterans medical centers are a critical part of providing the care they need," said Congressman Henry Cuellar. "This new polytrauma center will give San Antonio the most cutting-edge care to meet our veterans’ needs and it will be a place of hope and healing for our veterans." The Audie L. Murphy Medical Center is part of the South Texas Veterans Health Care System and has received the Vice-President's National Performance Review Office's Hammer Award for its unique development of sharing agreements and joint procurements with DoD, state, and private-sector facilities. Last year, the Department of Veterans Affairs spent more than $7.8 billion in Texas on behalf of the state’s 1.7 million Veterans. VA operates 11 major medical centers in the state, more than 40 outpatient clinics, 14 Vet Centers and six national cemeteries. ###
02.22.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism, has requested Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to move swiftly without delay in placing an unmanned aerial vehicle along the Texas-Mexico Border to help gather critical intelligence information to combat drug trafficking, weapons smuggling and potential terrorism threats. The UAV would be the first of its kind in Texas and would monitor the southern border along the Rio Grande. Congressman Cuellar and CBP will be meeting this April to discuss the aerial vehicle among other border security related issues. “This aircraft would put eyes in the skies along our Texas border and help the United States handle the evolving threats associated with drug and weapons trafficking,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need a flexible response to meet the threats of the 21st Century and a UAV in Texas is a common sense approach to further secure our Texas communities.” Last week, Congressman Cuellar wrote a letter to David Aguilar, Acting Deputy Commissioner of CBP, to renew his request for CBP to deploy a UAV to the Texas-Mexico border. Three Predator B UAVs have monitored the southwest border since 2005 and Cuellar has called on CBP to deploy an identical aircraft to Texas since serving on the House Homeland Security Committee in Congress. “I write to renew my request that U.S. Customs and Border Protection deploy identical aircraft along the Texas-Mexico border as soon as possible, and obtain all necessary certificates of approval without delay,” Congressman Cuellar wrote in a letter to CBP on February 16. “The southwest border region, specifically from El Paso to Brownsville, Texas, would benefit greatly from a remote piloted aircraft,” Cuellar continues. “Our border with Mexico along the Rio Grande faces a unique set of challenges. In an effort to complement the work of our brave border patrol agents, such aircraft will enhance their capabilities and will also improve intelligence gathering to help ensure their safety.” UAVs have played a pivotal role in gathering U.S. military intelligence abroad. Domestically, UAVs have been deployed to fill gaps in border surveillance along remote sections of the southwest border for the past five years. Cameras attached to the unmanned surveillance aircrafts can identify an object the size of a milk carton from an altitude of 60,000 feet, according to a 2008 Congressional Research Service (CRS) report. “These unmanned surveillance crafts would augment, not replace, the on-the-ground efforts already underway and they would give us a window into the remote parts of our border we can’t patrol by land,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is a homeland security solution to a border security challenge.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.17.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that one year after being signed into law, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has delivered over $19 billion in committed federal funding to Texas and provided over $4.2 billion in tax cuts to hard-working Texans, delivering a stabilizing boost to communities throughout the state during the economic recovery of the past 12 months. In the 28th Congressional District, over $634 million in federal funding has made significant investments in local infrastructure, transportation, education, health care, agriculture, energy and other community priorities. “In one year alone, the Recovery Act has brought billions in federal funding to Texas making community priorities possible in these hard economic times and it has helped provide billions in tax cuts to hard-working families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Recovery Act has helped our communities recover during this economic recession. Without a doubt, it’s been a boost to Texas.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was passed by Congress last year and was signed into law by the President on February 17, 2009. Since then, it’s provided over $99 billion in tax cuts and first-time homebuyer tax credits to 95% of all hard-working families nationwide, including $4.2 billion to working Texans through the Making Work Pay Tax Credit Program. Since the rollout of the Recovery Act, Texas has received over $3.3 billion for state transportation, energy and other shovel-ready infrastructure projects. “With this Recovery Act funding, we’ve been able to help our local schools, invest in local transit, law enforcement and infrastructure,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This national package will have a positive local impact for decades to come.” In Congressman Cuellar’s district, over 274,000 families benefited from tax cuts provided by the Recovery Act, individuals who made less than $75,000 and married couples earning less than $150,000 qualified for tax credits up to $400 and $800 respectively. Also in Texas, over 3.5 million seniors and veterans received a one-time stimulus payment worth $250 totaling $894,247,670 in combined stimulus payments throughout the state, according to reports provided by ARRA. “When you add everything up, the Recovery Act has made critical investments in our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The tally shows it’s been a success.” The Recovery Act also provided funding for the widely popular Cash for Clunkers program, small business tax credits and mortgage refinancing programs. For more information on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, please visit www.recovery.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.08.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined USDA Rural Development State Director Paco Valentin and Jim Hogg County Officials to announce over $5.2 million in federal funding for the construction of a 48-bed jail in Hebbronville, Texas. Jim Hogg County will receive $3,949,000 in federal grant funding and $1,317,000 in a loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Assistance Funds Program. “The USDA has been a partner and a believer in Jim Hogg County, and thanks to these federal funds, we can ensure our new detention facility will keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By investing in our law enforcement, we ensure we continue to protect our citizens and uphold our sense of security in Jim Hogg County.” The new county jail will include the construction of 20,613 square foot facility to serve Jim Hogg’s population of over 5,000 people. Currently, the county jail and law enforcement offices are located in an older bank building which is over capacity and poses security issues. With these federal funds, the new facility will ensure adequate security and facility resources for local law enforcement. “This USDA grant is one of the most significant given to Jim Hogg County for the construction of the jail facility,” said Jim Hogg County Judge Guadalupe “Lupe” Canales. “In this time, when financial difficulties are being experienced, the jail grant is a most welcome government gesture for our taxpayers.” "USDA Rural Development is pleased to provide funding to Jim Hogg County to build a new detention and law enforcement center. We realize how important this project is to the county and the law enforcement officials who protect the citizens who live and work in the area," said Paco Valentin, USDA Rural Development State Director. In July 2008, Hurricane Dolly caused severe local flooding and extensive storm damage throughout South Texas. The combined federal grant and loan funds were made available through USDA’s disaster assistance program. "Nine years ago, one of my top priorities as sheriff was to move towards the construction of a new sheriff's department and jail,” said Jim Hogg County Sheriff Erasmo “Kiko” Alarcon. “The beginning of that goal begins today." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.04.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today helped pass statutory Pay-As-You-Go legislation to reestablish spending rules for Congress to rein-in federal spending, draw down the nation’s debt and restore the fiscal discipline of the 1990s when deficits were turned into record-setting surpluses. PAYGO rules last expired in the House in late 2002. "This is a pivot point for the American people and our economic future as a nation," said Congressman Cuellar. "PAYGO will get us off this path of unsustainable spending and put our budget back on track so our children and grandchildren do not inherit a bankrupt nation. This is a historic move to restore our nation’s economic health and spark economic growth." Congressman Cuellar and his colleagues in the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition joined House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-5) Wednesday calling on the House to pass PAYGO to balance the nation’s budget. The 54 member coalition has championed PAYGO’s return over the last decade. "Passing PAYGO is the swiftest action we can take to restore fiscal responsibility," said Congressman Cuellar. "This is results-proof policy built on bipartisan ideas to better our economy." On Thursday, the House passed PAYGO by a vote of 233-187, and when signed into law by the President, PAYGO would require that all new federal spending be offset and balanced by spending reductions and revenue raisers. PAYGO would also force a serious reexamination of the nation’s wasteful federal budget subsidies to ensure the nation’s top priorities, like education, are adequately funded for the future. PAYGO rules would apply to all non-emergency spending, excluding Social Security, Medicaid, Food Stamps and other low-income programs which help sustain America’s most vulnerable populations. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects that without restoring PAYGO, budget deficits that grow faster than the economy will ultimately become unsustainable. "Under these rules, Congress can’t spend a penny without cutting a penny from elsewhere," said Congressman Cuellar. "Everyday Americans live on a budget and now Washington will again operate in the same way." PAYGO will allow some economic-relief measures to continue without offsets, including the child tax credit and lower income tax rates for middle class Americans making less than $250,000. It will also ensure Medicare physician payments through 2014 are fully paid for. "The budget should be a balancing act between meeting our needs and providing relief to low and middle-income Americans," said Congressman Cuellar. "But at the end of the day, all Americans will hurt if we don’t take this crucial step to bring the deficit down. PAYGO is the turning point." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.01.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), U.S. Census Director Dr. Robert M. Groves and Dallas Census Regional Director Gabriel Sanchez today visited the Border Colonias outside of Laredo, Texas, as part of a national campaign to raise awareness for the 2010 Census this spring. Congressman Cuellar and Director Groves will work together to monitor how the border region participates in the national Census this March. "The 2010 Census is vitally important to making our communities count, and this local community tour with the U.S. Census Director shows how committed we are to one of the most hard to count areas in the nation," said Congressman Cuellar. "I commend Director Groves for coming down to Laredo on the heels of his Alaska visit last week. From the snow caps in the north to the colonias in the south, all Americans will count this 2010 Census." Congressman Cuellar and Director Groves kicked off the community tour at the local Laredo 2010 Census office before departing for the Colonias along Highway 359. The Census Director and Congressman Cuellar met in Washington three weeks ago to discuss the importance of outreach efforts along the border. Beginning March 19, the Census Bureau will send daily reports to Congressman Cuellar on the rate of Census questionnaires being returned by mail from the border. "We appreciate the opportunity Congressman Cuellar is giving us to visit the Colonias on the eve of the 2010 Census. We care deeply about reaching these communities with the message that responding to the Census is easy, important, and most of all entirely safe," said Census Director Dr. Robert M. Groves. "No one's data will be used for anything other than the statistical uses of the Census." During the 2000 Census, a combination of challenges affected how accurately the Colonias were counted. Language barriers, lack of physical infrastructure such as roads and mailboxes, plus limited formal education throughout these communities posed unique challenges to the Census Bureau. In 2009, Dr. Groves visited the Colonias outside of McAllen, Texas to assess these challenges. "This is my second visit to the Colonias," said Dr. Groves Monday. "And I am confident that by understanding this population, we can complete an accurate count and ensure the fair distribution of federal resources." The Census is conducted once every 10 years and gathers important information on the national population. It also helps determine how more than $400 billion in federal funding is distributed to state, local and tribal governments. "We have to get an accurate count of how many families and children there are in our region to determine how many classrooms we need, plus roads, hospitals and other vitally important infrastructure in Texas," said Congressman Cuellar. "Without an accurate count, we’re making estimates on the resources we need and rely on everyday." In March 2010, more than 130 million addresses across the nation will receive a Census questionnaire. One of the shortest forms in history, the 2010 Census asks 10 questions and takes about 10 minutes to complete. The Census does not ask any questions relating to citizenship status and information provided to the Census is completely confidential. On Monday, Director Groves, Congressman Cuellar and Mr. Sanchez toured the Colonias and distributed sample Census questionnaires in both Spanish and English to Colonias residents. Local outreach efforts are already underway to hand deliver Census questionnaires throughout the Colonias along Texas’ southern border. In Webb and other border counties, over 4,000 local jobs have been created for community outreach efforts. These jobs include Census clerks who travel door to door to help citizens complete and return their forms. "It’s a community-wide campaign," said Congressman Cuellar. "The stakes are too high to wait another decade to get an accurate count. So we’re working together to make this one complete." Congressman Cuellar is the only Hispanic and Texas Member of Congress to serve on the House Subcommittee on Information Policy, Census and National Archives. He is also a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and he is Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism. For more information on the 2010 Census, please visit www.cuellar.house.gov or www.2010.census.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.28.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, Bennie G. Thompson, has appointed him as the new Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism. Congressman Cuellar will leave his post as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, but will retain his membership on that committee as he assumes his new leadership role. “This unique mission of securing our nation’s borders and fighting terrorism is vitally important to our nation and directly tied to my background as a native of our nation’s southern border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Along our border are some of the world’s busiest trade ports and we collaboratively work to defend against threats of all kinds everyday. I thank Chairman Thompson for his faith in my ability to serve in this new leadership role as we confront those homeland security challenges of the 21st Century.” Congressman Cuellar has served on the House Homeland Security Committee for three years and he’s been actively engaged in the work of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP). “With this opportunity, I will build upon my work with the Department of Homeland Security and I will actively pursue those border initiatives that will further secure our nation against terrorism, human smuggling, drug trafficking and the trading of weapons and illegal arms,” said Congressman Cuellar. Since coming to Congress in 2005, Congressman Cuellar has authored dozens of border security related bills, including H.R. 1437 the Southern Border Security Taskforce Act of 2009 which directs DHS to create a security task force to coordinate the efforts of federal, state and local law enforcement officials to protect U.S. border cities from the violence associated with drug trafficking, gunrunning, human smuggling and kidnapping. In December 2009, this legislation was included in the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009 (CIR ASAP), a bill that also falls into the jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism. Also in 2009, Congressman Cuellar authored legislation which was signed into law by the President in December that calls for a high-level U.S. Mexico Commission to increase interoperability between law enforcement agencies working to secure the border in the U.S. and in Mexico. In the coming weeks, Congressman Cuellar and the Department of State will meet to determine how and when the commission will be created. The House also passed in 2009 legislation authored by Congressman Cuellar calling for a Coast Guard mission analysis to determine the Coast Guard’s presence along the Rio Grande. The 1,800 mile river and international waterway separates the U.S. and Mexico and is vitally important to the interdiction of drugs, weapons and contraband. “Securing our nation’s borders, shores and ports requires us to constantly assess the security gaps in place,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By identifying our vulnerabilities, we can work to resolve them and stay one step ahead of the threats of terrorism and those security challenges we face.” Congressman Cuellar will replace Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) as the new chairman of the Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee, and Congresswoman Laura Richardson (CA-37) will assume chairmanship of Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response. Congressman Cuellar will continue serving in the full committee of the House Homeland Security Committee and will still remain an active member of the Emergency Communications Subcommittee. For more information on the House Committee on Homeland Security, please visit: http://hsc.house.gov/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.26.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined his colleagues in the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition to release a comprehensive plan aimed at cutting spending and balancing the budget. The “Blue Dog Blueprint for Fiscal Reform” includes historically bipartisan approaches to rein-in federal spending and draw down the nation’s debt. The 15 step blueprint also includes Congressman Cuellar’s “Performance Based Budgeting” legislation which would require all federal agencies to meet certain performance standards and report the effectiveness of their spending in a transparent, accountable way. “This common sense policy should be put in practice in Washington, just as it’s been successful at the state level in Texas for many years,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Americans live on a budget. The government should operate on a budget, and we should get the most bang for our buck when it comes to taxpayers’ money.” The Blue Dog plan, introduced Tuesday, provides a clear pathway for the nation to move forward from record deficits to long-term fiscal sustainability. Centered on trimming spending and reducing the nation’s deficit, the plan would restore Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) spending rules for Congress, establish a bi-partisan debt commission, eliminate duplicative government programs, audit the Department of Defense and require that Congress balance the budget by 2020. “This bill represents what I and my Blue Dog colleagues have been saying for years: our system of spending needs fixing and our budgeting needs reform,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In these hard economic times, American families have tightened their budgets and Washington must follow their lead.” Blue Dogs seek to balance the federal budget and reduce the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to 60% within 10 years. Tuesday’s rollout comes ahead of the President’s State of the Union address to Congress Wednesday. In 2009, the White House supported the Blue Dogs in their push for PAYGO in an effort to tighten up spending and restore the fiscal surpluses of the 1990’s. Last July, the House passed PAYGO and the bill now awaits action in the Senate. Congressman Cuellar’s “Performance Based Budgeting” (PBB) bill, H.R. 2142 the Government Efficiency, Effectiveness and Performance Improvement Act, is built on the budgeting reforms Cuellar authored for Texas while serving in the state legislature from 1987-2001. PBB requires government agencies to be assessed at least once every five years and would require those agencies to submit transparent budget reports to the President and to the public annually. “If we don’t shine light on problems, they only get worse in the dark,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These are common sense solutions to common practice problems, and by measuring how we spend money, we can allocate taxpayer dollars more efficiently.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.22.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) this week helped pass H.R. 4462, legislation that would allow individuals who make charitable contributions to victims of the Haiti earthquake to claim an itemized deduction on their 2009 tax return this April. The bipartisan legislation passed the House of Representatives unanimously on Wednesday, and President Obama is expected to sign the measure into law shortly. “Americans have shown a vast measure of compassion to our neighbors in Haiti, and this is a shining example of how we can work together to acknowledge the kindness among our fellow Americans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “There’s been a generous outpouring of support and we should recognize those contributions.” In January 2005, Congress enacted similar charitable tax credits for contributions made to victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami that occurred in late December of 2004. Wednesday’s legislation, H.R. 4462, will allow Americans to claim the charitable deduction for their 2009 tax return as opposed to waiting one year for their 2010 tax filings. The bill also includes a provision allowing those who text messaged their donations to use their phone bill as proof of donation. “In these tough economic times, we should acknowledge charitable giving and encourage those who give to their fellow Americans and our neighbors abroad,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In these hard times, we say thank you.” Congressman Cuellar is an original sponsor of the legislation which passed the House Wednesday and cleared the Senate Thursday. Once signed into law by the President, taxpayers can claim charitable donations made to Haiti between January 11 and March 1, 2010 on their 2009 tax filing. For more information, please visit: http://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/111/RANGEL_080.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.20.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) on Tuesday met with Census Bureau Director Robert M. Groves to discuss how the 2010 Census will advertise and conduct outreach efforts along the border in Texas. The majority of South Texas counties are considered “hard to count” areas where past Census participation ranks well below the national average. “These ‘hard to count’ communities will be among the most important to penetrate during the 2010 Census this April,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I had serious questions about how effectively the Census Bureau was advertising the 2010 Census along the border. As a result of yesterday’s meeting we now have a contingency plan set in place.” Beginning March 19, Congressman Cuellar will receive a daily report from the Census Bureau of how many Census forms are being returned via mail from the border region. If Census participation is lacking in certain areas, Director Groves says the Census will consider using additional funds for local outreach efforts. Director Groves also agreed Tuesday to visit the border region, including the colonias, in advance of the 2010 Census with Congressman Cuellar. Groves visited colonias near McAllen in 2009. Congressman Cuellar is the only Hispanic and Texas member on the House Subcommittee on Information, Policy, Census and National Archives. Two weeks ago, Cuellar requested from the Census official reports on how the 2010 Census would be advertised throughout the nation. A variety of national television, local radio, newspaper and local television advertisements will be visible throughout McAllen, Laredo, El Paso, San Antonio, Dallas, Austin and Houston media markets. However, some local counties (including Webb, Zapata and Jim Hogg) will not see local television advertising. “Our local media partners are the primary resources for information in our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That’s why it’s important for the 2010 Census to use our local media as the primary vehicle to carry their message.” This March, more than 130 million addresses across the nation will receive a Census questionnaire in the mail. One of the shortest Census forms in history, the 2010 Census asks 10 questions and takes approximately 10 minutes to complete. The Census is conducted once every decade and influences how more than $400 billion per year in federal funding is distributed to state, local and tribal governments based on the number of people living in each locality. For more information please visit Congressman Cuellar’s 2010 Census webpage at www.cuellar.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.19.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that 2,000 new jobs will be created in 11 South Texas Counties including, Webb, Zapata, Jim Hogg, Frio and La Salle, in preparation for the 2010 Census beginning this March. Jobs will include part-time to full-time opportunities for workers ranging between 20 to 40 hours per week. “These new jobs are a win-win for our community; not only will these workers help our counties get an accurate Census count, but we’ll help create new jobs in these tough economic times,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By getting an accurate count this 2010 Census, we’ll help our communities get the federal funding they need.” The U.S. Census occurs once every ten years to determine how more than $400 billion per year in federal funding is distributed to state, local and tribal governments. The new 2,000 Census jobs will help local outreach efforts to encourage 2010 Census participation across Texas. Average pay is $8.00 to $24.00 per hour and bilingual speakers are especially needed along the border. Positions range from Census clerks to supervisors. Hours of employment will primarily be during weekends and evenings. Applicants need to be U.S. Citizens and at least 18 years of age. They are also required to have a valid driver’s license and access to use of a vehicle. Students, retirees, community leaders, job seekers and full-time workers are encouraged to apply. Interested applicants can call 1(866)861-2010 or call the local Laredo Census Office at (956) 231-5803. Applicants can also visit the local Laredo 2010 Census Office at Molly Drive, Laredo, TX, 78045. “I encourage people throughout our communities to apply for these jobs and participate in the 2010 Census,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The more we work together between now and April, the more accurate our Census will be.” This March, more than 130 million addresses across the nation will receive a Census questionnaire in the mail. One of the shortest Census forms in history, the 2010 Census questionnaire asks 10 questions and takes about 10 minutes to complete. For more information, please visit: www.cuellar.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.14.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, today released the following statement as the United States provides additional response and recovery relief to Haiti: “In these first critical hours, Americans nationwide and our federal government are focusing on saving lives in Haiti and supporting its recovery. In the coming days, American-based efforts on the ground will increase under the direction of the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other federal agencies in a supportive role, such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. “As Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I have maintained a pulse on the developments in Haiti and I fully support the widespread relief efforts of the Departments of State, Defense, and Homeland Security. The work they’ve done over the past 72 hours has been critical to providing relief to our Haitian neighbors and those Americans who reside within Haiti. “Looking forward, this crisis presents another opportunity for us to examine international humanitarian relief efforts. These valuable emergency response experiences can help the United States determine how best to provide humanitarian relief in the future and how best to apply these experiences to national emergencies here at home. Our hearts and minds are with the good people of Haiti and we support those ongoing efforts to bring them relief and recovery.” Useful Information to Provide Assistance & Donations: In the first 36 hours of this crisis, USAID has provided $28 million to focus on immediate life-saving needs such as search and rescue and food aid. The United States will provide substantially more assistance as additional needs are identified to help Haiti and others in the region. If you are interested in providing donations, in-kind contributions and other assistance to Haiti, there are several ways to help. The State Department helped set up a short code for those wishing to send immediate monetary assistance. To take advantage of this, constituents may text "HAITI" to "90999" and $10 will be automatically donated to the Red Cross. This charge will appear on your mobile device billing statement. If you have a significant in-kind contribution to make – such as a plane, a cargo ship, a team of doctors, portable generators, or large-scale water purification equipment – please visit the website of the Center for International Disaster Information at www.cidi.org. The Center for International Disaster Information is a partner organization of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) that can help put usable donations on the ground in Haiti. Other ways to donate are below, however please be aware that the FBI warns donors to be alert to the potential for scams. After a tsunami devastated Southeast Asia in 2004, many people lost money by donating to relief organizations that turned out to be fraudulent. The FBI offers several tips here. Oxfam has an emergency team in the capital, Port-au-Prince, responding with public health, water, and sanitation services. You can donate online through its Haiti Earthquake Response Fund or by calling 1-800-77-OXFAM. www.oxfamamerica.org Partners In Health is taking contributions for relief efforts in Haiti, including medical supplies. The organization has had a presence in Haiti for more than 20 years, working to address the health care needs of the country's poor. www.pih.org Salvation Army: You can donate to The Salvation Army's efforts in Haiti by calling 1-800-SAL-ARMY (725-2769) or by visiting their web site. www.salvationarmyusa.org UN World Food Programme is accepting donations. The head of the WFP Josette Sheeran said the agency is deploying its resources in Haiti, including 86 metric tons of food. www.wfp.org National Nurses United has issued a call for nurse volunteers to provide assistance to those affected by the earthquake in Haiti. www.nationalnursesunited.org ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. He is also Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.12.2010	U.S. Senator John Cornyn and Congressman Henry Cuellar today released the following statements on the groundbreaking ceremony of the expansion of commercial lanes at the World Trade Bridge in Laredo. “I was pleased to work with Sen. Hutchison and Congressman Cuellar to secure the necessary federal funding for the expansion of the World Trade Bridge in Laredo. Once completed, this expansion project will go a long way toward enhancing security and relieving congestion and wait times—all factors that will help to expand job opportunities and pump revenue into our border communities,” said U.S. Senator John Cornyn. “Today’s expansion of seven new commercial lanes at the World Trade Bridge is testament of the City of Laredo’s strong interest in continuing to make Laredo the nation’s number one inland port. With a total of 15 commercial inspection lanes, not only will wait times be reduced at the World Trade Bridge, but more cargo will be able to enter the country, meaning more economic prosperity for the Gateway City,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “Working together with city leaders was important in getting this project off the ground. I also thank my colleagues in Congress, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and Senator John Cornyn for supporting and helping fund projects that will infuse more federal dollars to the area and invigorate business in Laredo.” ###
01.11.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined President Felipe Calderón of Mexico, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk and U.S. Congressman Ruben Hinojosa to officially open the Anzalduas International Bridge connecting the communities of Mission, Texas and Reynosa, Mexico across the Rio Grande. This new vehicular bridge is the closest international crossing point between Hidalgo County, Texas and Monterrey, Mexico. “This is a shining moment for the United States and Mexico as we join in international unity to connect our communities once again,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bridge will promote our mutual trade interests and it will help our citizens move commerce, goods and ideas between our two nations.” The Anzalduas International Bridge spans 3.2 miles across the Rio Grande and connects Mexico to the McAllen Foreign Trade Zone where more than 410 companies are based. As a vehicular crossing, the bridge will promote the exchange of commerce between both nations. Dozens of multi-national corporations are located throughout Reynosa, Mexico, including: Nokia, Black and Decker, Fujitsu, Corning and Matsushita. The $100 million bridge project is a collaborative effort between the United States and Mexico. The opening ceremony on Monday included remarks from the U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, former Texas Secretary State and Dallas Mayor. “By bringing together President Calderon and Trade Representative Kirk, we continue the trade dialogue between the U.S. and Mexico,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Trade has been a great economic stabilizer for the Texas economy in the middle of these tough economic times.” Congressman Cuellar, an advocate for trade, recently launched a Pro-Trade Caucus on Capitol Hill. The bi-partisan congressional organization seeks to promote renewed trade agreements between the United States and Panama, Columbia and South Korea. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
01.05.2010	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that a representative from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will be in San Antonio, McAllen and Laredo, Texas this week to meet with doctors and hospitals who do business with CMS. Congressman Cuellar will be accompanied by CMS representative Carmen Irwin as they meet with the medical service community to learn more about federal reimbursements for medical care, Durable Medical Equipment and other concerns. The casual roundtable discussion will include the following topics: • CMS reimbursements • Working with a CMS contractor • Durable medical equipment reimbursement • General questions concerning CMS “These discussions will provide an opportunity for medical service providers to speak informally with the CMS representative, address any issues, and improve the process of practice management with this federal agency,” said Congressman Cuellar. For more information, please call Claudia Urrabazo or Juan Sanchez at 956-725-0639 or email them at claudia.urrabazo@mail.house.gov or juan.sanchez@mail.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that the City of Laredo has received $3,024,000 in federal funds to help promote energy conservation and alternative fuel programs. Specifically, the City will receive $2.1 million from the U.S. Department of Energy for its Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) program. It will use the money for alternative energy retrofits at publicly owned buildings (solar), and LED lighting retrofits and trash compactors in downtown Laredo, to name a few projects. The City will use the other $924,000 to upgrade its Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) refueling station by adding a larger tank, two dispenser units, and one dryer tower. The city will also purchase a CNG refuse hauler, a street sweeper, and vacuum truck. With a matching of $430,000, a total of $1.354 million will be invested in the second project. Funds for the CNP project are a direct result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that Congress passed earlier this year and the money will be administered by the Texas Comptroller’s State Energy Conservation Office as part of the Transportation Efficiency Program. “This announcement is an investment in alternative energy, so we can become leaders in alternative fuels and become a vital part of a global conscience, which balances our energy demands with the resources we have on hand. I thank Texas Comptroller Susan Combs for watching out after our area and funneling these funds our way” said Congressman Cuellar. “In today’s challenging economy, these funds will also create new jobs and provide a major boost to the local economy.” “I commend Laredo’s initiative in seeking Alternative Fuels Project grant funding,” Comptroller Susan Combs said. “City leaders have made a commitment to improving the area’s air quality. Now that the city has been selected for more than $900,000 in grants, it can lead by example as it expands its alternative fuel infrastructure, which will help reduce emissions from its vehicle fleet.” “The City of Laredo continues to reap the benefits of the hard work of its employees and elected officials who are always looking for grants and funds that improve the community’s quality of life, while helping to save taxpayer dollars,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “This grant will help us do both.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.16.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today helped pass vital funding for the nation’s troops in 2010 and a jobs package worth $75 billion to save and create thousands of American jobs. The House passed both bills before adjourning Wednesday to ensure the nation’s military would be adequately funded through next year and to put forth a plan to stimulate the nation’s employment. “These are critical investments for the nation and this ensures our troops have the equipment they need and makes a plan for further job growth across America,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Employment is the center of our economic rebound from this recession. If we save jobs, if we create jobs, we stabilize the successes we’ve made and stimulate more economic growth.” The “Jobs for Main Street Act of 2010” plans to invest $48 billion in public infrastructure projects to spawn immediate job creation at the state and local level, in addition to redirecting $26 billion worth of Wall Street bank “bailout” funds towards education, first responder and public service jobs. The bill also provides emergency economic relief for families hard-hit by the economic crisis by extending unemployment insurance for an additional six months and COBRA health insurance benefits from nine to 15 months for unemployed workers. An additional $300 million would help keep Americans eligible for the food stamp program in 2010, and $23 billion will extend a higher federal match program which repays doctors who provide services to low-income families under Medicaid through June 2011. “This is real life relief for Americans who’ve been hard hit by this economic crisis,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This jobs package saves jobs, creates jobs and helps those Americans who’ve lost their jobs this year.” The “Jobs Package” aims to redirect $75 billion worth of Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) savings from Wall Street to Main Street, to help stabilize the state of the job market. This November the nation shed 11,000 jobs compared to a loss of 111,000 jobs this October. The House passed the “Jobs Package” by a vote of 217 to 212 Wednesday and if passed by the Senate and signed by the President the bill would become law. The House also passed Wednesday the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Act, a bill which includes a 3.4 percent military raise for the troops, plus $29 billion worth of military medical care funding. The bill also includes an additional $154 billion for military readiness and training. Over $104 billion will be invested in improving military equipment, including 353 new ground troop vehicles, 10 additional Air Force cargo aircraft, $3.3 billion to improve fleet helicopters, $15 billion for the procurement of seven Navy ships and $23 billion to reinforce the equipment for the nation’s troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our military men and women deserve every dime of this funding which ensures they have the equipment and resources they need,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We’re replenishing our military readiness and strengthening our military capabilities on the ground, in the sky and on the sea.” This year, Congress added specific provisions to the defense bill to root out waste, fraud and abuse in government contracting. This includes funds to enable defense personnel, not contractors, to perform critical defense functions. The Department of Defense estimates that each job when converted from civilian to federal saves on average $44,000 per year. In addition, the defense bill makes vital investments for American military families, including $472 million for family advocacy programs, counseling, childcare and outreach support services. The House passed the Defense Appropriations Bill by a vote of 395 to 34 late Wednesday and it is expected to pass the Senate by the end of the year. To learn more about the 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/FY2010_Defense_Appropriations_Bill_Summary.pdf To learn more about the Jobs for Main Street Act of 2010, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/Jobs_for_Main_Street_Act_of_2010_Summary.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.11.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for a national investment package providing annual federal funding to the nation’s critical priorities, including funding for veterans and the nation’s housing department. The Consolidated Appropriations bill also includes funding for military construction and the health, labor and education departments, plus funds for the nation’s justice system. Congressman Cuellar also secured $2.1 million worth of federal funding for local law enforcement, health, transportation and community small business priorities in South Texas. “This is for our teachers, our students, our police officers, our military and our veterans, and ensures our country is steadily moving forward stronger and more secure in 2010,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This funding keeps our country functioning and helps the millions of Americans who rely on these federal programs.” This Consolidated Appropriations bill makes targeted investments in the nation’s vital programs including $518 billion for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid and $19 billion for federal student financial aid programs. Over $109 billion will be made available for veterans programs next year and $41 billion for highway infrastructure nationwide. The bill also includes $3.7 billion in grants and aid to state and local law enforcement. The measure also includes $7 billion for the U.S. Census Bureau, the agency responsible for conducting the constitutionally mandated 2010 Census next April. In addition, $824 million will be available for the Small Business Administration, a 35% increase since last year. “Local investments and lending to our community businesses will keep their doors open and keep their jobs alive,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By increasing this funding more businesses can apply for these loans.” This October, Congress passed sweeping new small business funding worth $28 billion to jump start the sluggish economy through small-enterprise loans. The Consolidated Appropriations bill also includes support services funding for laid-off workers and additional funding to add 1,200 claims processors to process VA benefits claims for the nations’ veterans. Over $23 billion will support America’s military forces and their families at home and overseas, including $2.6 billion to modernize housing for troops and military families. Congressman Cuellar also helped secure $24.8 million for the national “Reading is Fundamental” program, a literacy organization that uses public and private funds to purchase books for children attending underserved public schools. The program currently benefits children and families throughout Texas. The House passed H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations bill, Thursday by a vote of 221-202. If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, these funds will be made available for fiscal year 2010. To learn more about funding provisions included in the bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.09.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for the Tax Extenders Act of 2009, a bi-partisan bill to extend $31 billion worth of federal income tax deductions scheduled to expire at the end of this year. The tax breaks would provide relief for millions of Americans by extending deductions for rising property taxes, small businesses, state and local taxes and various tuition-related expenses. “These are real tax cuts for millions of middle-class families and they will put hundreds if not thousands of dollars back into the pocketbooks of Americans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Families count on these deductions as they budget during the year and they’re a sure way to provide relief in these hard economic times.” The individual tax deductions will bring an estimated $5 billion worth of tax credits back to Americans, providing up to 30 million homeowners with property tax relief, 4.5 million families with college tuition-related deductions and saves 3.4 million teachers money for their classroom expenses. The bill also extends a tax credit for small businesses who continue to pay National Guard and Reserve employees when they are called up to serve. Congressman Cuellar strongly supported and sponsored several parts of the bill, including a provision to extend tax credits for Texas’ low-income rural and urban community “Empowerment Zones.” These areas can apply to receive favorable tax credits to boost local job growth and stimulate local economies. Part of the Rio Grande Valley and the City of Cotulla, Texas are considered “Empowerment Zones” and currently Cotulla receives these tax breaks. Both areas are represented by Congressman Cuellar. “Tax breaks to underserved communities give them the leg up they need to spawn growth in their communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Saving tax dollars means more money can be invested in the community and attract outside investors to develop in their towns.” Congressman Cuellar also sponsored a tax provision to enhance charitable deductions for book contributions to public schools and supported tax deductions for areas affected by federally-declared disasters. The extensions would also serve as a boon to the sluggish real estate and retail development markets, providing property tax credits for homeowners and $5 billion worth of incentives to encourage improvements to retail stores, constructions of restaurants and improvements to local development. Low-income housing tax credits would also be saved, providing $3 billion worth of economic encouragement for developers to build-up economically distressed areas. The House passed Wednesday H.R. 4213, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009, by a vote of 241 to 181. If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, these tax extensions will be extended by one and two years. For more information on the extensions included in the Tax Extenders Act of 2009, please visit: http://www.rules.house.gov/111/LegText/111_4213_txt.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.03.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for H.R. 4154, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act, tax cutting legislation to provide relief to American families, farmers and small businesses by extending current estate tax exemptions for inheritances that would otherwise face tax hikes in 2011. Under current estate tax law, inheritances less than $3.5 million per individual and $7 million per married couple are exempt from taxes. In 2011, thousands of additional Americans would be subject to a revised tax, posing financial challenges for farmers and family-owned enterprises. “Our small businesses and family-owned farms continue to weather this economic storm. They need to see a sign of relief in the future so they can make investments in their businesses today,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill gives them stability and peace of mind to plan ahead.” Under current law, the federal estate tax maximum rate is 45 percent. Without legislation, the estate tax is scheduled to be entirely eliminated for year 2010, but would return in 2011 affecting all estates valued at over $1 million and at higher rates of 55 percent. The tax cut passed by the House today would leave less than 1 percent of all estates subject to the estate tax. “This is a fiscally responsible compromise for America’s budget and America’s families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “If we don’t take action now, current laws will briefly disappear, only to reappear in 2011 taxing more Americans and at a higher rate. This yo-yo approach to taxing needs a permanent fix.” Congressman Cuellar and other members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition supported the bill because it improves financial stability for America’s businesses and ensures more consistency within future estate tax revenues. In the past 11 years, estate tax rates have changed ten times. “It is time that the United States Congress ensures certainty for all Americans when it comes to estate planning,” said Roger Johnson, President of the National Farmers Union. “H.R. 4154 accomplishes this goal.” According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, household incomes for small to large farm owners ranged from $586,000 to $2.2 million in 2008. Under the plan passed by the House Thursday, these family-owned farms would continue to be exempt from estate taxes. Congressman Cuellar supports more tax exemptions to help preserve the nation’s farms and family-owned operations. This year, he cosponsored H.R. 3905, the Estate Tax Relief Act of 2009, which aims to increase the estate tax exemption from $3.5 million to $5 million. “The death tax shouldn’t run our family businesses out of operation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “They’re a part of the American dream and a part of the American spirit.” The House passed Thursday H.R. 4154 by a vote of 225-200, and if passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, the bill would save Americans $234 billion in taxes over the next ten years. For more information on the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act, please visit: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=111_cong_bills&docid=f:h4154ih.txt.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.02.2009	Congressman Cuellar (TX-28) released the following statement on President Obama's decision for a revised strategy in Afghanistan: “This decision comes at a time when the stakes are high and the sacrifices run deep. So tonight I'll be thinking of our troops and their families, what they've given and what lies ahead. The President understands the implications involved and I trust this decision has been carefully reviewed. A strategic plan for Afghanistan's security is a part of ensuring our security here at home. So we should be grateful to our brave men and women who will carry out this call.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
12.02.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3980, a homeland security bill authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) requiring the Federal Emergency Management Agency to assess how homeland security grants have made the nation safer and better prepared since the terror acts of 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina. FEMA has invested $29 billion in preparedness grants to state and local entities since 2002. This fall, the agency reported its system for measuring those investments is seriously flawed. “In the past 18 months, FEMA spent $5 million measuring how effectively it spent $29 billion over the past seven years,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Yet FEMA is unable to accurately gauge how this money has made us any safer. Our nation faces both an economic crisis and a constant security threat. The American people deserve to know how their money is being used to make our nation safer.” This October, Congressman Cuellar, chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, held a hearing to investigate how FEMA was spending its preparedness funds. FEMA Deputy Administrator Timothy Manning revealed that despite a 2006 congressional mandate, FEMA had yet to fully measure the effectiveness of the grant program on our national security. “FEMA called its assessment a work in progress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “But their work in progress wasn’t working and that’s why I immediately drafted this bill. This legislation will make sure that FEMA gets its program back on track, and will ensure FEMA fulfills its promise to prepare the nation against acts of terrorism and other unforeseeable events.” The House passed Congressman Cuellar’s bill Wednesday by a vote of 414-0. If passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President, the Redundancy Elimination and Enhanced Performance for Preparedness Grants Act would require FEMA to streamline its preparedness funding program, making it more transparent and accountable. FEMA would be required to take an inventory of its homeland security grants and devise metrics to determine how effective those grants are. The bill would also direct FEMA to eliminate unnecessary reporting requirements, rules and regulations that confuse and discourage local entities from participating in the program. Pending final passage, FEMA would have to submit to Congress a plan to achieve these objectives 120 days after the act becomes law. Congressman Cuellar believes his legislation could help identify inefficiencies within other grant programs overseen by the Department of Homeland Security. “This is performance-based budgeting at its core,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We need to be able to review how effectively federal dollars are used in order to make informed funding allocation decisions in the future.” For more information on H.R. 3980, please visit: http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/getdoc.cgi?dbname=111_cong_bills&docid=f:h3980rh.txt.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
11.19.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted to protect millions of seniors relying on Medicare by fixing the way their physicians are reimbursed. The Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act, passed by the House today, aims to permanently reform the Medicare payment system, repealing a 21% cut in payments scheduled for January 2010. "By blocking this cut and replacing it with a stable reimbursement system we will preserve seniors’ ability to keep their doctors," said Congressman Cuellar. "This protects our seniors, helps our doctors and fixes a system that has been patched six times." H.R. 3961 would correct a decade-long cycle of short-term fixes for the Medicare reimbursement rate system. Currently, health care providers treating seniors on Medicare are reimbursed according to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. Congress has acted six times in the last six years to enact a short-term fix to the SGR. "This formula has continuously underserved and under reimbursed our doctors," said Congressman Cuellar. "If we don’t fix the system, we endanger our ability to provide care to our seniors in the future. Enacting another short-term fix is like kicking the can down the road and jeopardizes the solvency of Medicare. A permanent fix is needed now and on the heels of reform, now is the time." As companion legislation to the House health care reform bill passed two weeks ago, H.R 3961 is supported by a wide range of organizations including the American Medical Association, AARP and the Military Officers Association of America. The SGR "fix", as it is commonly known, protects access to physicians for Medicare beneficiaries and also supports members of the military and their families relying on Tricare. Medicare reimbursement rates dually apply to physicians providing care to Tricare patients. Today, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act passed the House by 243-183 and will now move to the Senate. The bill will also attach and send to the Senate H.R. 2920, the Statuary PAYGO Act of 2009, passed by the House on July 22. Congressman Cuellar co-sponsored the Pay-As-You-Go legislation which restores spending rules to Congress to reduce the national deficit. "The PAYGO principle is simple: you can’t spend more than what you have," said Congressman Cuellar. "Moving this legislation to the Senate will bring us one step closer to reigning in national spending and return our deficit to the surpluses of the nineties." If passed by the Senate and signed by the President, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act and Statutory PAYGO would become law. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
11.08.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for H.R. 3962, the “Affordable Health Care for America Act of 2009,” historic health care reform legislation to reform the nation’s health insurance system and ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans. The deficit-neutral legislation will bring health care coverage to 209,000 uninsured Americans in the 28th congressional district of Texas and will provide coverage to 4.4 million uninsured Texans. “This vote was a once in a lifetime opportunity to build upon the premise that all Americans are created equal and would ensure that every American is worthy of access to quality affordable health care,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This historic unprecedented plan is built on a fundamental premise that all Americans should be treated with dignity when securing their health. No American should live without health care choices or live on the brink of a health care crisis.” The “Affordable Health Care for America Act” would provide coverage to 96% of Americans through private health insurance reforms, an expansion of Medicaid, affordability credits and the creation of a national health insurance exchange. The deficit-neutral legislation costs $894 billion, $400 billion less than the original House health care reform plan introduced this July. Congressman Cuellar secured two major amendments in the final bill, including protecting state tort reform laws from federal preemption and ensuring that all new health care agencies created under the bill are efficient and held accountable. This week, the Texas Medical Association applauded Congressman Cuellar’s provision to protect Texas’ strong medical liability laws. “I decided to vote in favor of this historic legislation because it preserves what works and improves upon what doesn’t,” said Congressman Cuellar. “One third of my district is uninsured, meaning that there are over two hundred thousand reasons why we need immediate health care reform today.” The House health care reform plan would prohibit private health insurance companies from denying coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions, and would also cap annual out of pocket medical expenses at $5,000 per individual and $10,000 per family. The plan would also provide affordability credits to low and moderate income individuals and families, and includes a voluntary public health insurance option in which the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates 2% of Americans would enroll. “Congress created Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid to provide options for Americans who would otherwise have slim to none,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These government programs are vital to those who rely on them and thus ‘government takeover’ claims are fabrications to evoke fear.” The plan passed by the House late Saturday by a vote of 220-215 and significantly strengthens Medicare and Medicaid. In fact, it closes the Medicare Part D “Donut hole” for seniors by 2019 and eliminates cost-sharing for preventive care services. The bill also expands Medicaid to individuals and families with incomes at or below 150% percent of the federal poverty line, recognizing the hardships families face in these tough economic times. “This transformative, landmark bill is one of the most important votes this Congress will ever take,” said Congressman Cuellar. “A champion for health care, Senator Ted Kennedy once called health care reform the great unfinished business of our country. Today, we are one giant step closer to finishing the job.” The 28th District of Texas would significantly benefit by the “Affordable Health Care for America Act of 2009”: Coverage of the Uninsured: There are 267,000 uninsured individuals in the 28th district, (34% of the district’s population). The Congressional Budget Office estimates that nationwide, 96% of all Americans will receive insurance coverage under this plan. If this benchmark is reached, 209,000 people who currently do not have health insurance will receive coverage under H.R. 3962. Strengthening Medicare: There are 94,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the 28th district. The health care reform legislation improves Medicare by providing free preventive and wellness care, improving primary and coordinated care, improving nursing home quality and strengthening the Medicare Trust Fund. Help for Small Businesses: Under the legislation, businesses with up to 100 employees will be able to join the health insurance exchange, benefitting from lowered group rates and a greater choice of insurers. There are 14,200 small businesses in the 28th district that will be able to join the health insurance exchange. Help for Seniors: Each year, 5,800 seniors in the 28th district experience the Medicare Part D “donut hole” and are forced to pay their full prescription drug costs. This legislation would provide them with immediate relief, cutting brand name drug costs in the donut hole by 50%, and ultimately eliminate the donut hole by 2019. Health Care and Financial Security: In 2008, there were 600 health care-related bankruptcies in the 28th district in 2008, caused primarily by the health care costs not covered by private insurance. This bill caps annual out-of-pocket expenses at $5,000 for single individuals and $10,000 per year for families, ensuring that no citizen will have to face financial ruin because of high health care costs. To learn more about H.R. 3962, please visit: /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=3834 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
11.07.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released this statement in advance of a health care reform vote anticipated to take place in the House this weekend: “After several weeks of careful and thorough evaluation, and after several months of conversations with my constituents, I have decided to cast my vote in favor of this historic legislation. “I am voting yes because every American has a fundamental right to be treated with dignity when securing their health. No American should live without healthcare choices or live on the brink of a health care crisis. I am voting yes for this historic health care plan because it will improve coverage for those who have it and create choices for those who don’t. “This transformative, landmark bill is one of the most important votes this Congress will ever take. Senator Ted Kennedy once called health care reform ‘the great unfinished business of our country.’ Today, we are one step closer to finishing the job. “As I met with my constituents and asked questions about the cost, I never lost sight of the goal of health care reform. One in three people in my congressional district does not have health care coverage, and two out of three likely face rising premiums or rely on Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP or Veterans health care plans. For these reasons, I support this health care bill because it responds to the needs of all these constituents. Looking forward, it will bring health care security to 209,000 Americans in the 28th District of Texas and coverage to over 4.4 million uninsured Texans. “This bill is a dramatic improvement from the one introduced this July. This plan is a fiscally responsible solution to the state of our nation’s health care system. It provides coverage to 96% of Americans while reducing the federal deficit, cutting waste, fraud and abuse by bringing long overdue reforms. It also includes provisions I authored to protect tort reform laws in Texas and ensures that all new agencies created by this bill will be efficient and accountable. “This bill represents nearly one hundred years of work. It’s a historic, unprecedented plan to better the lives of all Americans. And this vote is a once in a lifetime opportunity to renew a promise that all Americans are created equal and that every American is worthy of access to quality affordable health care.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
11.06.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released this statement in advance of a health care reform vote expected to take place in the House this weekend: “As the House nears a vote on health care reform, I continue to read and evaluate the final changes and I am deeply encouraged by what I read. From the beginning, I’ve supported health care reform, asking serious questions about what it would cost, while advocating on behalf of the needs of both the uninsured and insured. “I share in a fundamental belief that all Americans should be treated with dignity when it comes to securing their health, and no American should be put in a position where they have nowhere to turn for health care. This is why I support reforming the private health insurance system and why I support health insurance options to improve coverage for those who have it and to provide choices for those who don’t. “I will continue to read the final version of the House health care reform plan because it is the responsible thing for a member of Congress to do. This is a historic piece of legislation and I will consider how it answers the needs of my constituents. I will carry their concerns with me to the House floor when I vote.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
11.06.2009	TMA STATEMENT — FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Nov. 5, 2009 Texas Physicians Applaud Congressman Cuellar’s Leadership on Health System Reform The following can be attributed to William H. Fleming III, MD, President of the Texas Medical Association. Dr. Fleming’s statement is in regard to an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar to health reform legislation (HR 3962: Affordable Health Care for America Act). “The physicians and medical students of the Texas Medical Association (TMA) applaud U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) for taking an important step to protect Texas’ landmark medical liability reforms. “Texas’ medical liability reforms have been good for Texas and good for Texas patients. Today, sick and injured Texans have more physicians providing more services and caring for more patients with complex or high-risk problems. Physicians across the state also have found it much easier to recruit new physicians, especially those practicing high-risk specialties. It’s critical that Texas has the ability to protect these important reforms, and Congressman Cuellar’s amendment is a step in that direction.” TMA is the largest state medical society in the nation, representing nearly 44,000 physician and medical student members. It is located in Austin and has 120 component county medical societies around the state. TMA’s key objective since 1853 is to improve the health of all Texans. -- 30 -- Contact: Pam Udall (512) 370-1382; cell: (512) 413-6807; e-mail: pam.udall@texmed.org Brent Annear (512) 370-1381; cell: (512) 656-7320; e-mail: brent.annear@texmed.org Click here to follow TMA on Twitter. Or visit TMA on Facebook.
11.05.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that he has secured two major provisions in the final House version of health care reform. The measures were included in the Manager’s Amendment introduced Tuesday evening, which is a 42 page addendum to H.R. 3962, the “Affordable Health Care for America Act 2009” introduced last week. The provisions will protect current and future state medical malpractice laws from federal infringement and will impose proven government accountability, performance and customer service standards on any new federal agency created by the bill, in addition to requiring periodic assessments to eliminate unnecessary rules and regulations at these agencies. “As a supporter of the Texas malpractice reform, I wanted to be sure that these state medical liability laws would not be adversely impacted by this legislation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This means no federal law can preempt, setback or alter a state’s tort reform laws. With this, they will stay in tact.” Since July, Congressman Cuellar advocated for tort reform to be included in the final health care reform plan. While serving in the Texas State Legislature, he strongly supported medical malpractice laws for Texas health care providers. “The physicians and medical students of the Texas Medical Association (TMA) applaud U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar for taking an important step to protect Texas’ landmark medical liability reforms,” said William H. Fleming III, MD, President of the Texas Medical Association. “Texas’ medical liability reforms have been good for Texas and good for Texas patients. It’s critical that Texas has the ability to protect these important reforms, and Congressman Cuellar’s amendment is a step in that direction.” “Texas Medical Liability Trust (TMLT) and its nearly 15,000 physician policy holders greatly appreciate the efforts of Representative Henry Cuellar of Texas to include language in the current health care reform bill that attempts to protect physicians against potential increased liability exposure in H.R. 3962,” said Bob Fields, President and CEO of the Texas Medical Liability Trust. “Representative Cuellar continues to be a strong advocate for physicians and their patients.” Congressman Cuellar also authored a provision in the amendment that will impose several performance and accountability requirements on all new agencies created under H.R. 3962. Among the provisions are requirements for agencies to produce a strategic plan every three years and conduct annual performance assessments. This is intended to help the public assess each new agency’s performance, productivity and accountability. “I believe in governing with our eyes open,” said Congressman Cuellar. “If we are creating new agencies, we need to ensure from the outset that they are held accountable to the American people. If we’re asking Americans to be responsible for their health care we should ensure these agencies are held responsible for their actions.” Also included in the bill are two additional “good government” provisions that will increase high-quality government customer service and reduce bureaucratic red tape. Each new agency would be required to periodically review their customer service plans to develop improvement strategies and higher standards. This reflects goals included in legislation which Congressman Cuellar successfully passed in the House in July 2007. Cuellar’s amendment also requires each agency to identify and eliminate any redundant rules and regulations. “With government it’s a given: there will be red tape. This is why it’s so important to give these agencies the authority to root out redundant rules and regulations to help Americans get the care they need,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These are common sense solutions to common practice problems.” A House vote on health care reform is expected to take place this weekend. As a member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, Congressman Cuellar supported allowing Americans to review the final bill for 72 hours before a vote is a made, a commitment that House leadership is carrying out. To read the Manager’s Amendment to H.R. 3962, please visit: http://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_hr3962_dingell.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.29.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released this statement following the House introduction of the new health care reform plan: "I am more encouraged by the new House health care reform bill introduced today. We need a health reform plan that extends health insurance coverage to the one in three uninsured Americans in my district in a responsible, cost-effective way. Beginning today, I will thoroughly evaluate this bill to determine if it is a health care reform plan I can ultimately support. "Since serving in the Texas State Legislature, I’ve been a long-time advocate for health care reform, and I will continue to ensure the concerns of my constituents are reflected in the final bill. Most importantly, I want to make sure we can provide quality, affordable health care for all while not increasing America’s national deficit. All Americans have a stake in the future of our health care system and I encourage everyone to go online and read the entire bill, which I have already begun to do." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.23.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for the Coast Guard Authorization Act, a bill which approves Coast Guard programs for 2010 and includes a provision requiring the agency to conduct a mission analysis study to determine the Coast Guard’s presence along the Rio Grande River. “With this study, the Coast Guard and related agencies can devise a plan to adequately determine how the Coast Guard can share in the responsibility of securing the Rio Grande River,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Coast Guard is responsible for patrolling international waterways bordering the United States including the navigable portions of the Rio Grande. Currently, the Coast Guard patrols a limited portion of the river, leaving local agencies and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to secure the banks of the 1,200 mile Rio Grande. For more than a year, Congressman Cuellar has been working with the Coast Guard and CBP to address this problem. “The safety of the international border continues to be a national security concern as violence persists in neighboring Mexico,” said Cuellar. “The river is a vital international waterway. By analyzing the current mission and identifying the needs, we can address a multitude of security issues and keep our communities safe.” The provision authored by Congressman Cuellar is designed to improve border security and address local issues along the border, including drug trafficking, human smuggling and deceased bodies floating in the river. Congressman Cuellar recognizes the need for local agencies to collaborate with federal agencies in their efforts to secure the border, and his amendment requires the Coast Guard to: Evaluate their current mission along the international waters of the Rio Grande River, including a personnel and assets assessment Identify Coast Guard’s needs to increase search and rescue operations, in addition to, drug interdiction operations Work with related agencies, including CBP and local entities, in conducting the mission analysis Today, the Coast Guard Authorization Act passed by the House by a vote of 385-11. If passed by the Senate and signed by the President, the bill would become law. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.22.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for a sweeping solar energy technology bill which would direct the Energy Secretary to create a solar energy roadmap by conducting studies nationwide, including a study on how the sun could power undeveloped areas known as Colonias. “These studies will give us a roadmap for how to tap the most abundant natural resource we have,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And with my amendment the Energy Secretary would study communities like the Colonias who lack a traditional power structure.” Today, the House passed by a vote of 310-106, H.R. 3585, the Solar Technology Roadmap Act, that requires the U.S. Department of Energy to create a long-term plan to guide solar energy research and its potential for widespread commercial use. The legislation also authorizes $2.25 billion for solar research over the next five years. Congressman Cuellar successfully added an amendment to the bill that requires the Energy Department to conduct these solar studies in underpowered and underserved communities like the Colonias. Over the past several years, he’s repeatedly secured federal funding to bring electricity to the underdeveloped dwellings along the Rio Grande River. “A little power goes a long way in the Colonias,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And as the federal government makes these dramatic new investments, they should look at our underdeveloped communities who have little if no power at all.” This July, Congressman Cuellar secured $550,000 for the Colonias in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act 2010, to power approximately 100 dwellings in the Colonias through a micro-grid system in coordination with Texas A&M University. A prototype currently powers twelve dwellings in La Presa Colonia in Webb County. If passed by the Senate and signed by the President, the Solar Technology Roadmap Act would become law. For more information, please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:HR3585:/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.22.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for a sweeping solar energy technology bill which would direct the Energy Secretary to create a solar energy roadmap by conducting studies nationwide, including a study on how the sun could power undeveloped areas known as Colonias. “These studies will give us a roadmap for how to tap the most abundant natural resource we have,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And with my amendment the Energy Secretary would study communities like the Colonias who lack a traditional power structure.” Today, the House passed by a vote of 310-106, H.R. 3585, the Solar Technology Roadmap Act, that requires the U.S. Department of Energy to create a long-term plan to guide solar energy research and its potential for widespread commercial use. The legislation also authorizes $2.25 billion for solar research over the next five years. Congressman Cuellar successfully added an amendment to the bill that requires the Energy Department to conduct these solar studies in underpowered and underserved communities like the Colonias. Over the past several years, he’s repeatedly secured federal funding to bring electricity to the underdeveloped dwellings along the Rio Grande River. “A little power goes a long way in the Colonias,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And as the federal government makes these dramatic new investments, they should look at our underdeveloped communities who have little if no power at all.” This July, Congressman Cuellar secured $550,000 for the Colonias in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act 2010, to power approximately 100 dwellings in the Colonias through a micro-grid system in coordination with Texas A&M University. A prototype currently powers twelve dwellings in La Presa Colonia in Webb County. If passed by the Senate and signed by the President, the Solar Technology Roadmap Act would become law. For more information, please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d111:HR3585:/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.12.2009	Congressman Cuellar alongside Jim Hogg, Zapata and Starr County veterans today unveiled new mobile veterans clinics across South Texas. These travelling clinics will help veterans get local VA care. Thousands of veterans enrolled in the VA's Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System will now be able to receive routine primary care, preventative care, and limited mental health services without having to travel out of town. A strong advocate of services for veterans, Congressman Cuellar worked very closely with the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that these medical services came to South Texas. “There is no need for our veterans to have to travel out of town to receive health services that they so desperately need. These veterans were there for us when our nation needed them most, and now we have to be there for them when they need us most,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Some of these veterans nearly gave their lives for this country. We have to treat them with the dignity and respect that they deserve. I want to thank Tim Shea for the excellent work he is doing in taking care of our veterans in rural South Texas.” “On behalf of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Honorable Eric K. Shinseki, I thank Congressman Cuellar for his diligent support of this important initiative and tell the Veterans of rural South Texas that we are here to serve you and hope you take advantage of the services provided by the Mobile Medical Unit” said Tim Shea, Director of the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. “Expanding health care services to our rural South Texas veterans is a priority of the VA and we are very proud to participate in the official Mobile Medical Unit ribbon cutting ceremony with our good friend Congressman Henry Cuellar” said Mr. Jeff Milligan, Director of the new VA Texas Valley Coastal Bend Health Care System. The mobile medical unit, which is equipped with two exam rooms, an intake and vitals area, a restroom, and a storage room, will make stops in Hebbronville, Roma, Rio Grande City and Zapata County twice a month. To schedule an appointment, call the VA Outpatient Clinic in McAllen toll free at 1-866-622-5536. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.07.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced his support for a measure requiring Congress to make the final health care reform bill publicly available online 72 hours in advance of a House vote. “This unprecedented measure will set a new standard for transparency now and in the future as Congress considers legislation similar to the scale of health care reform,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Americans want to see the final bill before we vote.” Last week, Congressman Cuellar co-sponsored H. Res. 554 which requires that all non-emergency legislation and conference reports be made available to the general public via the internet for 72 hours before being voted on by the House. Cuellar supports reforming the health care system to ensure the uninsured and insured have access to quality, affordable health care. Since July, the current House proposed version of health care reform, H.R. 3200 America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, has been available to the public online at the website of the Legislative Information System of the U.S. Congress, www.congress.gov. Recently, the Speaker of the House indicated that she will allow 72 hours for review before any final version of health care reform is voted on by the House. “Millions of Americans are watching and waiting and have a right to know what health care reform can do for them,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As Congress proceeds on health care reform, this measure will help inform Americans through the final hour.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.02.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that 30 low-income families in Hidalgo County are closer to reaching the American dream thanks to $1 million awarded to Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc., by the U.S. Treasury Department. With the $1 million in federal funding, Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc., a non-profit organization that serves as a subdivision developer, home builder, and mortgage company, will build 30 homes in Hidalgo County. “For most Americans, owning a home is a dream come true, and today I am proud to say that 30 families will be able to live that dream,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate and applaud the efforts of Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc., for their tireless work in ensuring that some of the most vulnerable members of society have a safe and secure roof over their heads.” “This award will definitely go a long way as it will give us more resources to help serve low-income families in our communities,” said Robert A. Calvillo, executive director of Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc. Since the non-profit agency is its own builder, homes will be sold at cost, thus saving the homebuyer thousands of dollars. On average, the homeowner will pay an interest rate between 6 to 6.5 percent over 30 years. Over the last 33 years, Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc., has provided new homes to at least 3,000 families. In order to qualify for a home, applicants must meet the Department of Housing and Urban Development criteria of low-income. For example, a family of four earning no more than $36,500 per year qualifies for the program. Interested applicants must also: • live in Hidalgo County • be able to provide a $2,500 down payment on the home • have a minimum of $200 disposable income per month The funds that Affordable Homes of South Texas, Inc. received are from the Treasury Department’s Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) Program. It was one of only 62 institutions selected nationwide from an applicant pool of 194 organizations that had collectively requested over $273 million in awards. The 62 organizations being awarded are headquartered in 24 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. All organizations are selected for an award through a competitive application process involving a Comprehensive Business Plan review. The CDFI Program invests in and builds the capacity of existing private, for-profit and nonprofit community-based lending organizations known as CDFIs that serve rural and urban low-income people and communities across the nation that lack adequate access to affordable financial products and services. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
10.01.2009	U.S. Congressmen Henry Cuellar, Ciro D. Rodriguez, Charles Gonzalez and Lamar Smith today announced $3.028 million in appropriations funding for the San Antonio River Improvements Project. The money will fund the on-going river channel improvements on the Mission Reach portion of the river on the city’s South Side. “This funding puts San Antonio one step closer to seeing this project through,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Restoring this eight mile stretch will increase economic opportunities for the city and improve our local neighborhoods. This shows how federal dollars can have an immediate local impact, especially during these tough economic times.” The appropriations funding is part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, which passed the House Thursday by a vote of 308-114. Tom Weaver, Board Chairman for the San Antonio River Authority, which is the lead administrator of the project, expressed appreciation for the Bexar County delegation’s work. “We are extremely pleased and grateful for the work our federal delegation has done to secure this funding for the Mission Reach Project which is so important to the San Antonio community,” Weaver said. “Our delegation has continued to make funding the San Antonio River Improvements Project one of our priorities and I am pleased this funding is now secured,” said Congressman Rodriguez, who sits on the House Appropriations Committee. “This project is a boon for our community, both economically and culturally, and I look forward to working with local officials to keep bringing federal resources home to Bexar County.” Congressman Lamar Smith added: “The River, the Missions, the River Walk and the people are at the very heart of what makes San Antonio the vibrant community that it is. This funding will help to extend and perpetuate that vibrancy by opening the way for further economic and cultural development of these unique assets.” “The San Antonio River Improvements Project has been a top priority of the city and county as well as that of my office,” said Congressman Gonzalez. “I am very pleased that these critical dollars will assist in meeting the needs of San Antonio and Bexar County and will directly result in much-needed enhancements to the San Antonio River that will continue to make the city a top tourist, business, and cultural destination. I look forward to supporting this effort further with my colleagues in Washington, D.C.” The San Antonio River Improvements Project is an on-going comprehensive project aimed to restore and improve a 13-mile stretch of the river. The eight-mile Mission Reach project extends from South Alamo Street to Mission Espada just below Loop 140 and will transform the straightened river to replicate its original shape of flow. This restoration is aimed to increase local economic development by attracting commercial and real estate development to the southern part of the city. In Fiscal Year 2008, $10 million was secured for the River Channel Improvements Project and again in FY09. Earlier this year, the project received $25.4 million in “stimulus” funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). For more information on the San Antonio River Improvements Project, please visit: http://www.sanantonioriver.org/overview.html # # #
09.29.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today announced that the U.S. Department of Education has awarded Texas A&M International University $287,314 to establish a graduate education degree program in autism. “I applaud the lead that TAMIU is taking with this program because they are raising the bar and setting the standard on how best to address the needs of students with autism,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Once fully developed, this model program will be able to be used by other colleges and universities.” With the funding, TAMIU will launch the Master’s Degree in Education Interventions with Autism program as early as January 2010, and its primary role will be to establish a model plan to evaluate teacher effectiveness with students. As part of the program, TAMIU will design and implement a research-based Master’s Degree program, expand the current Autism Diagnostic Clinic to an Autism Interventions Center and develop a teacher quality evaluation model to use with candidates in the degree program. “This funding will help us to respond to the overwhelming need for research-based instruction and training at the Master’s level for those teachers who serve children with autism. Autism is very much a part of our community and one of our most challenging arenas for both teachers and families. This support will help us serve that need with our collaborative Autism Intervention Center, a logical expansion of TAMIU’s existing Autism Diagnostic Clinic.” The money comes under the Fund for the Improvement of Post Secondary Education that supports innovative projects to expand graduate-level programs at colleges and university with a high concentration of Hispanic American students. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.28.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today commended Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack for issuing drought assistance relief payments to two Texas counties suffering forage loss due to prolonged drought conditions. Wilson and Guadalupe county farmers are the first in the nation to receive Farm Service Agency drought relief payments. “The wait is winding down and relief is on its way. This is good news for Wilson and Guadalupe counties,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Finally, our ranchers and farmers are seeing their applications get processed. Now payments will roll out to those who’ve applied across Texas.” Today, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced that ranchers who’ve signed up for the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) have started to receive disaster relief payments in Wilson and Guadalupe counties, two of the hardest-hit drought disaster counties nationwide. "These payments will help producers recover from financial setbacks due to drought," said Secretary Vilsack. "This program is just one of our disaster programs, which help stabilize the livestock industry when disasters occur." This August, Congressman Cuellar and the Texas Farm Service Agency State Director Juan Garcia travelled across the state announcing application timetables for drought relief. LFP is one of several drought relief programs providing payments to eligible livestock producers who’ve suffered livestock grazing losses due to drought or fire. “Our farmers and ranchers support one of the last legendary trades in Texas,” said Cuellar. “This compensation will help them recover from unforeseen losses over the past two years. They deserve every dollar headed their way.” Farmers can apply for LFP assistance for 2008 losses through December 10, 2009. Applications for LFP relief for 2009 losses will be accepted through January 30, 2010. The Texas Farm Service Agency (FSA) supports the state’s agricultural producers through grant and loan programs as part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. When Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, it helped the Texas FSA clear a backlog of 163 farm loans worth $12.4 million. Today, FSA has $5.2 million worth of direct operating loan funds available to Texas farms, with more funds being made available for FY 2010 this October. This year, FSA has provided $200 million worth of loans and funding to farms nationwide. For more information on FSA’s Texas loan and assistance programs please visit: http://www.fsa.usda.gov/FSA/stateoffapp?mystate=tx&area=home&subject=landing&topic=landing For more information on today’s announcement please visit: http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/!ut/p/_s.7_0_A/7_0_1OB?contentidonly=true&contentid=2009/09/0476.xml ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.28.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today commended Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack for issuing drought assistance relief payments to two Texas counties suffering forage loss due to prolonged drought conditions. Wilson and Guadalupe county farmers are the first in the nation to receive Farm Service Agency drought relief payments. “The wait is winding down and relief is on its way. This is good news for Wilson and Guadalupe counties,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Finally, our ranchers and farmers are seeing their applications get processed. Now payments will roll out to those who’ve applied across Texas.” Today, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced that ranchers who’ve signed up for the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) have started to receive disaster relief payments in Wilson and Guadalupe counties, two of the hardest-hit drought disaster counties nationwide. "These payments will help producers recover from financial setbacks due to drought," said Secretary Vilsack. "This program is just one of our disaster programs, which help stabilize the livestock industry when disasters occur." This August, Congressman Cuellar and the Texas Farm Service Agency State Director Juan Garcia travelled across the state announcing application timetables for drought relief. LFP is one of several drought relief programs providing payments to eligible livestock producers who’ve suffered livestock grazing losses due to drought or fire. “Our farmers and ranchers support one of the last legendary trades in Texas,” said Cuellar. “This compensation will help them recover from unforeseen losses over the past two years. They deserve every dollar headed their way.” Farmers can apply for LFP assistance for 2008 losses through December 10, 2009. Applications for LFP relief for 2009 losses will be accepted through January 30, 2010. The Texas Farm Service Agency (FSA) supports the state’s agricultural producers through grant and loan programs as part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. When Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, it helped the Texas FSA clear a backlog of 163 farm loans worth $12.4 million. Today, FSA has $5.2 million worth of direct operating loan funds available to Texas farms, with more funds being made available for FY 2010 this October. This year, FSA has provided $200 million worth of loans and funding to farms nationwide. For more information on FSA’s Texas loan and assistance programs please visit: http://www.fsa.usda.gov/FSA/stateoffapp?mystate=tx&area=home&subject=landing&topic=landing For more information on today’s announcement please visit: http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/!ut/p/_s.7_0_A/7_0_1OB?contentidonly=true&contentid=2009/09/0476.xml ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.24.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted to pass the Medicare Premium Fairness Act which aims to spare 11 million seniors from unexpected increases in their 2010 Medicare Part B premiums. Without congressional action, these seniors could see increases between $15 and $30 a month. “We have an obligation to protect our seniors and their health care,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This act aims to save over ten million seniors from a harsh increase in their Medicare premiums. This is good news for seniors on fixed incomes.” With this action (and if passed into law), 2010 Part B Premiums would remain at $96.40 per month. Among those seniors who would benefit from this bill are low-income dual eligibles, new Medicare enrollees and enrollees whose Medicare premiums are not deducted from their Social Security checks. Due to the recession, the cost of living adjustment for Social Security will likely be zero in 2010. Nearly three quarters of Medicare enrollees are protected from increases because their Medicare Part B premiums cannot rise above the Social Security cost of living adjustment (COLA). But 11 million other Part B enrollees don’t fall under the same protections and would be required to pay the increase for those who do. “It is unfair to ask one group of seniors to carry the burden for another,” said Cuellar. “This act makes it fair for all seniors in the Medicare Part B program.” Currently, 42 million seniors and people with disabilities are enrolled in Medicare Part B, which covers physician services and outpatient care. Low-income seniors who receive benefits from both Medicare and Medicaid, new Medicare enrollees, and seniors with incomes above $85,000 (if they are single) and $170,000 (for couples) are now protected under this act passed by the House by a vote of 406 to 18. If passed by the Senate, H.R. 3631 would move to the President for his signature and pending his approval the Medicare Premium Fairness Act would become law. Currently, the bill is endorsed by groups such as AARP, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, the Center for Medicare Advocacy and the Alliance for Retired Americans. For more information on H.R. 3631, the Medicare Premium Fairness Act, please visit: http://waysandmeans.house.gov/news.asp?formmode=release&id=938 ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.22.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined Laredoans from the Washington’s Birthday Celebration Association in Washington D.C. to celebrate George Washington’s legacy at the White House and on Capitol Hill. Approximately fifty representatives from Laredo joined Congressman Cuellar and other lawmakers to commemorate WBCA’s 113th Celebration. “I am proud to be joined by the good people of Laredo who’ve come to Washington D.C. to celebrate the legacy of George Washington,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today, members of Congress were in awe over WBCA’s elaborate display of fanfare and costumes on Capitol Hill.” Today, approximately fifty WBCA delegates, including John C. Galo and Anna Benavides Galo (portraying George and Martha Washington) toured the White House and the U.S. Capitol with Congressman Cuellar. The delegation met with the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi at the steps of the U.S. Capitol after meeting with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and other members of Congress inside. “It’s a great thing for people outside of Laredo to see how our city has celebrated Washington’s legacy for over a century,” said Cuellar. “I commend WBCA President Anselmo Castro for his hard work in bringing this delegation to Washington. This celebration is uniquely patriotic and culturally represents Laredo with pride.” While inside the White House, Congressman Cuellar and WBCA delegates were able to tour the President’s Oval Office. This week, President Obama is in New York City for the General Assembly of the United Nations. “We are very grateful to Congressman Cuellar for helping us make this trip to our nation’s capitol. Thanks to his efforts, our group was able to enter the Oval Office of the White House for the second time,” said WBCA President, Anselmo Castro Jr. “This is an honor that few people will have in their lifetime and for that reason we appreciate it all the more.” The Washington’s Birthday Celebration, founded in 1898, is the largest Celebration of its kind in the United States, recognizing George Washington’s Birthday annually on February 22. Since joining Congress, Cuellar has supported WBCA in making an annual delegation trip to the nation’s capitol to celebrate Washington’s legacy. WBCA’s events attract nearly 500,000 residents and visitors annually. For more information on WBCA, please visit: http://www.wbcalaredo.org/home/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.22.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today joined Laredoans from the Washington’s Birthday Celebration Association in Washington D.C. to celebrate George Washington’s legacy at the White House and on Capitol Hill. Approximately fifty representatives from Laredo joined Congressman Cuellar and other lawmakers to commemorate WBCA’s 113th Celebration. “I am proud to be joined by the good people of Laredo who’ve come to Washington D.C. to celebrate the legacy of George Washington,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today, members of Congress were in awe over WBCA’s elaborate display of fanfare and costumes on Capitol Hill.” Today, approximately fifty WBCA delegates, including John C. Galo and Anna Benavides Galo (portraying George and Martha Washington) toured the White House and the U.S. Capitol with Congressman Cuellar. The delegation met with the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi at the steps of the U.S. Capitol after meeting with Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and other members of Congress inside. “It’s a great thing for people outside of Laredo to see how our city has celebrated Washington’s legacy for over a century,” said Cuellar. “I commend WBCA President Anselmo Castro for his hard work in bringing this delegation to Washington. This celebration is uniquely patriotic and culturally represents Laredo with pride.” While inside the White House, Congressman Cuellar and WBCA delegates were able to tour the President’s Oval Office. This week, President Obama is in New York City for the General Assembly of the United Nations. “We are very grateful to Congressman Cuellar for helping us make this trip to our nation’s capitol. Thanks to his efforts, our group was able to enter the Oval Office of the White House for the second time,” said WBCA President, Anselmo Castro Jr. “This is an honor that few people will have in their lifetime and for that reason we appreciate it all the more.” The Washington’s Birthday Celebration, founded in 1898, is the largest Celebration of its kind in the United States, recognizing George Washington’s Birthday annually on February 22. Since joining Congress, Cuellar has supported WBCA in making an annual delegation trip to the nation’s capitol to celebrate Washington’s legacy. WBCA’s events attract nearly 500,000 residents and visitors annually. For more information on WBCA, please visit: http://www.wbcalaredo.org/home/ ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.17.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today voted for the single largest investment in federal college aid, helping more students and families pay for college. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, H.R. 3221, reforms the federal student loan system, saving taxpayers $87 billion over the next ten years putting $77 billion of savings back into education. “At a time when American families need it most, we’ve taken an unprecedented step towards helping more students pay for college,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By enhancing the system we already have in place, we can save taxpayer dollars and reinvest that money back into education. There’s no better place for these dollars to go.” Beginning July 1, 2010, new federal student loans will originate through the federal Direct Loan program which will reduce subsidies currently paid to private lenders who administer federally funded loans. The savings will reinvest $40 billion into increasing Pell Grant scholarships from $5,550 in 2010 to $6,900 by 2019. Specifically, the 28th Congressional District will benefit by $152.5 million in Pell Grant scholarship funding over the next ten years and over 29,000 of the district’s students will be eligible for Pell Grants next year. The plan would also lower interest rates on federal need-based and subsidized loans, making interest rates variable beginning in 2012, and simplify the FAFSA application process by allowing students and families to use information from their tax returns to apply. In 2008, Texas students borrowed 470,527 federally subsidized loans. In addition, the bill invests $2.55 billion towards minority-serving colleges and universities. “This bill will make a big difference in how students in our communities can finance their college education, and it includes an amendment I authored to expand outreach efforts to educate students and their families about the opportunities available,” said Cuellar. “We often have students who are the first of their family to go to college. My amendment not only ensures that they know what options they have, but also how to make loan payments in the long run.” Texas has one of the highest student loan default rates in the country, and Cuellar cites a lack of outreach efforts as the primary cause. He authored an amendment which expands the Department of Education’s outreach efforts to adequately inform all students, including minority, bilingual and disadvantaged students, on how to apply for assistance and make payments on federal student aid. In addition, the bill includes over $500 million for Texas schools as part of the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act which passed the U.S. House this May. Incorporated into today’s bill, the 21st Century School Facilities act makes critical investments to modernize, upgrade and repair school facilities nationwide. Research shows that enhancements to teaching facilities yields improved student achievement and better teacher recruitment and retention. Beginning in 2010, this funding can be used towards modernization renovations which make schools safer, healthier and more energy efficient. As part of this modernization act, Cuellar also included a provision which sets aside approximately $320 million for areas recovering from natural disasters or severe economic distress. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Emergency Communications Preparedness and Response Subcommittee, Cuellar believes it’s crucial for a region to rebuild their schools as part of the recovery process from a natural disaster. “In many ways, our schools are the cornerstone to creating stability in the wake of a natural disaster and in our everyday lives,” said Cuellar. “It can’t be overstated; the net benefit of this bill is immeasurable.” For more information on H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, please visit: http://edlabor.house.gov/blog/2009/07/student-aid-and-fiscal-respons.shtml ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.15.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today recognizes the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, a month-long celebration beginning September 15, 2009 through October 15, which recognizes the contributions of Hispanic Americans and celebrates Hispanic heritage and culture nationwide. “This year takes special meaning as we recognize the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month. There is much to celebrate among Hispanics and across minorities nationwide. We’ve seen our country elect President Barack Obama who in turn nominated Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This shows our community is capable, qualified and willing to serve people of all backgrounds.” Hispanic Heritage Month dates back to September 1968 when Congress authorized President Lyndon B. Johnson to proclaim National Hispanic Heritage Week. In 1998, President Ronald Reagan expanded the weeklong celebration to a month-long observance. The Hispanic population is the nation’s largest minority group, representing 46 million Americans. According to U.S. Census reports, it’s estimated that the Hispanic community could represent 30 percent of the nation’s population by 2050. Increasingly, Americans of Hispanic origin are making strides in all aspects of society. “Texas and the country will continue to be shaped by the contributions of our nation’s Hispanic community. We’re shaping policy, we play a role in the economy and we represent a unique cultural strength,” said Congressman Cuellar. This year, President Obama appointed the first Hispanic Supreme Court Justice Sotomayor to the nation’s highest court, and former California Congresswoman Hilda Solis became Secretary of the Department of Labor. The President also appointed former Colorado Senator Ken Salazar to be Secretary of the Interior Department. Currently, there are 27 Hispanic Americans serving in Congress, including Congressman Cuellar. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.11.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released this statement recognizing the eighth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks: “Eight years ago, our nation woke up to a morning of cascading terrorism and tragedy. Americans innocently lost their lives. America watched in fear and uncertainty. Every morning since, we’ve been resilient in our recovery. Our security is strengthened and we can’t take that for granted nor forget the reasons why. “As we honor those 9/11 victims and their families, we should commend our fellow Americans who’ve helped us prevail against those remaining threats. By protecting the homeland they’ve thwarted acts of terrorism. They’ve ensured our stability and returned our sense of security. They make decisions everyday that collectively shore up our safety. Today, I pause for those heroic men and women of 9/11, and I also pay tribute to our everyday heroes. They’ve kept us safe ever since.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.10.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) released this statement following President Barack Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, President Obama reminded us how he’s not the first President to take on health care reform, nor are we the first Congress to draft a reform plan. But if we find common ground, we can move forward collectively and be the first to pass meaningful health care reform. So tonight we move forward. We proceed on a path to reform, and I join the President in his willingness to not let this fail. “As the status quo becomes increasingly indefensible, I commend the President for understanding how health care reform should work for all Americans, for those millions of Americans who don’t have coverage and for those millions of Americans who do. “The pursuit of perfection should not deter how close we are towards achieving reform. By working together, we can deliver not only what’s necessary for this country, but what’s never been achieved before. And I share in the President’s proposal to incorporate ideas from both sides of the aisle because our individual health doesn’t discriminate across party lines. Health care, at some point, affects us all.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.08.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) today released this statement following President Barack Obama’s address to our nation’s schools: “Today, President Obama reminds us how education is the gateway to getting ahead; he echoes a message of personal responsibility. He reiterates the tremendous value in working hard. He reminds our children how life circumstances can challenge them but not define them; how they can defy the odds with education and dare to dream big,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “More importantly, he reminds us how education brings opportunity to every corner of this country, to big cities, small towns and to people of all backgrounds, like Jazmin Perez from Roma, Texas. “I am immeasurably proud of this outstanding young woman for having been nationally recognized by President Obama, as he shared her story with the rest of the country to illustrate how education can help defy the odds. A 2005 graduate of Roma High School, Jazmin studied public health at Brown University and is now pursuing her master’s degree at the University of Texas Health Science Center. With the utmost praise, I join Texas State Representative Ryan Guillen and the City of Roma in congratulating Jazmin and her parents for this presidential recognition, and I applaud the hard work behind Jazmin’s personal story. Jazmin, her parents and the Roma Independent School District are a shining example for South Texas, and we’re immensely proud to see the President of the United States recognize Jazmin.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
09.04.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and USDA Texas Farm Service Agency State Director Juan M. Garcia announced Friday in San Antonio, Texas, the timetable for Texas disaster and drought assistance applications to be submitted and processed by the Farm Service Agency. FSA made its timeline public today in advance of processing drought relief applications to distribute disaster-related funds included in the 2008 Farm Bill. “Today’s news is welcomed relief for our region’s farms that have endured this record drought, and so I commend FSA for its initiative to start processing these applications,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Under the new guidance of State Director Juan Garcia, I have faith in FSA’s promise to serve and assist our region’s farms.” This July, Congressman Cuellar wrote a letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, asking the USDA to start processing Texas disaster relief applications. Recognizing the needs of Texas farmers and in light of worsening drought conditions, FSA will begin manually processing relief applications beginning September 9, 2009, foregoing a wait on application software to electronically process aid. "I make today's announcement with mixed emotion - on one hand, I wish these disaster programs weren't necessary," said Garcia. "But the reality is, Mother Nature has dealt South Texas a heavy blow, and I'm glad FSA is poised to deliver disaster assistance programs that will alleviate some of the adverse financial impact. I’ve come to FSA with a commitment to do what’s best for Texas and we’re here today to help." Today, Congressman Cuellar and State Director Garcia met in Seguin, Texas with officials from Guadalupe, Frio, LaSalle, Bexar, Atascosa, McMullen, Live Oak, Bee and Wilson Counties, to discuss how the region’s farms can apply for disaster relief funding and benefit from other farm operating loan programs. “Our farmers and our land owners across all of Texas will welcome this funding during these extreme conditions, especially in the midst of the economic challenges facing them today,” said Congressman Cuellar. “FSA is accelerating this process and educating our officials on how to apply and receive this well-deserved assistance.” The first deadline to submit manual applications is September 9, 2009, for the Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) and for the Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey Bees and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP), with immediate manual payment processing beginning the same day. LFP provides financial assistance to producers who suffered grazing losses due to drought or fire on or after January 1, 2008, and before October 1, 2011, and ELAP provides assistance for the accrued losses associated with disease, extreme heat, extreme cold and other adverse weather conditions. The second deadline to submit manual relief applications is November 2, 2009, for the Tree Assistance Program (TAP) which provides cash payments to eligible orchardists and nursery tree growers for qualifying tree losses due to natural disaster, and for the Supplemental Revenue Assistance Program (SURE), which provides cash payments to eligible producers who have incurred crop production losses or crop quality losses. This past July, FSA started manually processing applications for the Livestock Indemnity Program (LIP) which provides compensation to eligible livestock producers who incurred livestock death losses due to a natural disaster. When Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 earlier this year, FSA used the stimulus funding to clear out a backlog of 163 direct operating loans in Texas, totaling $12.4 million. In Congressman Cuellar’s district, stimulus dollars provided operating loan funding worth $314,000 to the region’s farms. Today, FSA has $5.2 million worth of direct operating loan funds available to Texas farms, with more funds being made available for FY 2010 this October. So far this year, FSA has provided $200 million worth of loans and funding to farms nationwide. For more information on FSA’s Texas loan and assistance programs please visit: http://www.fsa.usda.gov/FSA/stateoffapp?mystate=tx&area=home&subject=landing&topic=landing ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
08.12.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services has awarded Gateway Community Health Center $1.34 million as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, passed by Congress earlier this year. Gateway Community Health Center will use the federal funds towards implementing an electronic health records system. “Gateway Community Health Center plays a vital role in serving the health care needs of our community and these funds will help this clinic serve the thousands of patients they see every year,” said Congressman Cuellar. “An electronic medical records system will help the clinic meet the health care demands of the future.” Gateway Community Health Center will use this funding to help meet a nationwide goal requiring health care providers to implement electronic health records systems by 2014. “We’re elated to have received notification that this money will help go towards implementing electronic health care records,” said Michael Trevino, CEO of Gateway Community Health Center. “We’re fortunate to be ahead of the game as health care providers in this country will be expected to implement health care records systems by 2014.” In February 2009, as part of the economic stimulus package also known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congress approved $19.5 billion to help health care providers implement electronic health care records systems. Gateway Community Health Center clinics provide health care services to 31,000 patients across Webb, Zapata and Jim Hogg Counties. #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition
07.22.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today voted in support of H.R. 2920, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009, legislation co-sponsored by Congressman Cuellar which creates a plan to enforce fiscal discipline in a time of rising deficits. Pay-as-you-go legislation, also known as PAYGO, restores fiscally responsible spending measures to Congress by requiring that all new spending is offset by savings. This deficit-neutral spending plan aims to restore the fiscal health of the 1990’s when PAYGO budget rules helped turn massive deficits into record surpluses. “Everyday Americans are making tough choices between what they need and what they can afford. They are getting through these tough times by a simple principle: Don’t spend more than what you have,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We should expect Congress to do the same. This plan will help stop irresponsible spending in Washington and restore America’s fiscal health.” The Statutory PAYGO legislation, which passed the House today by a vote of 265-166, requires Congress to pay for the costs of tax cuts or other increases in entitlement spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. These spending provisions aim to balance the budget and reduce the national deficit. This act is similar to PAYGO legislation enacted in the 1990’s which expired in 2002 when the nation’s surplus was estimated to be $5.6 trillion. “Today, our nation’s deficit is over $11 trillion and as people across South Texas and the nation try to balance their checkbooks, it’s time Congress follow their lead,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The idea is simple. If you have five dollars, you can spend five dollars, but you can’t spend more than that.” Last month, Congressman Cuellar met with President Obama at the White House alongside other fiscally conservative members of the Blue Dog Coalition to support the legislation which passed today. Fiscal responsibility is at the forefront of the Blue Dog’s missions and re-instating PAYGO has been a Blue Dog priority since 2002. “For several years, the federal government was stalled in a pattern of fiscal irresponsibility. No more. We are making tough decisions on funding priorities. We are tackling the biggest threats to our long-term fiscal stability. And we are restoring greater discipline to how we spend taxpayers’ dollars,” said President Obama. “I thank Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer, Chairman Spratt and Chairman Miller, Representatives Hill, Cooper, Boyd, and Welch, the Blue Dog coalition, and all of the 167 cosponsors of the PAYGO legislation. We will continue to work together to strengthen fiscal discipline.” Pending Senate passage and the President’s signature, today’s legislation will apply to new spending measures and will not apply to existing policies that are widely expected to be extended, such as Medicare physician payments. For a summary of H.R. 2920, Statutory PAYGO legislation, please visit: http://majorityleader.gov/docUploads/PAYGOSummary072009.pdf ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.21.2009	Today, Congressmen Henry Cuellar, Ruben Hinojosa and Solomon P. Ortiz met with officials from the U.S. Department of State to discuss the Castelano v. Clinton settlement agreement, which addresses the unique nature of passport applications involving births to midwives along the Southern Texas border and revises the standards in which the State Department will review these passport applications. “I’m pleased to see the State Department revise their passport standards and provide their employees with training on midwives along the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “For too long, we’ve lacked a uniform standard to review these applications. Today’s meeting shows how committed the State Department is towards improving this process for our South Texas communities.” Under the new standards, the State Department will handle passport applications involving midwives in a fair and timelier way, and senior-level employees will review the applications after being extensively trained on the circumstances unique to midwife delivery along the Southern border. The State Department believes this training will create a unified standard for their employees to fairly review midwife applications. "We are pleased that we have reached a settlement with the plaintiffs in this case and look forward to working with the residents of the Texas border region, and their congressional representatives, to insure that all applicants receive timely service and correct decisions for their applications for passports and passport cards," said Brenda Sprague, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Passport Services U.S. Department of State. “The new procedures should benefit my constituents who have endured increased scrutiny based on external factors during their application process,” Congressman Ortiz said. “I am confident this settlement will bring peace of mind to many of my constituents as we work to better serve them and I will continue to monitor the progress of the new procedures to ensure that the needs of our community are properly addressed.” As a result of the settlement, the State Department will no longer send “filed without further action” letters or “abandoned” decisions to applicants, and applicants who are denied passports will have an additional 60 days to respond and defend their application. For individuals who previously applied for a U.S. passport between April 8, 2003 and August 14, 2009 they can now reapply without paying the $75 application fee. “This is a positive development for so many citizens, especially those along the border, who have had to travel hundreds of miles to Houston for help with their passport applications.” said Congressman Hinojosa. “I am committed to working together with my colleagues in Congress to establish an office in deep South Texas, preferably in Brownsville or McAllen, where our constituents can find the help and support they need to fulfill their requirements for a passport. This is vitally important in our border communities where trade and commerce have been adversely impacted.” To review the new State Department passport procedures please visit: http://travel.state.gov/passport/lawsuit/lawsuit_4525.html ####
07.17.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today helped pass H.R. 3183, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, which makes key investments to protect America’s energy and water infrastructure. The bill also includes $1.5 million to restore an eight mile stretch of San Antonio’s downtown river channel and $550,000 to power colonias, impoverished dwellings along the border. “This bill makes sure our energy grid is protected and ensures our water is safe and clean,” said Congressman Cuellar. “That’s why I’m pleased that the San Antonio Congressional Delegation was able to secure the necessary funds to improve San Antonio’s downtown river channel. This investment will revitalize the downtown neighborhood and provide an opportunity for economic development.” Congressman Cuellar worked with U.S. Representatives Charlie Gonzales (TX-20), Ciro Rodriguez (TX-23) and Lamar Smith (TX-21) to secure $1.5 million in funding for San Antonio’s downtown river channel improvement project. The eight mile stretch was previously channelized for flood control purposes and will now be restored to revitalize the historically underdeveloped neighborhood. This year, Congress increased funding to $5.5 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers to oversee water infrastructure projects like the one in San Antonio. This is a funding increase of $139 million since 2009. The bill also includes $550,000 to power colonias dwellings in Webb and Zapata Counties. The micro-grid system provides power to colonias on a temporary basis until a connection to a larger power grid can be made. A prototype constructed by Texas A&M University currently powers twelve dwellings in La Presa Colonia in Webb County. This funding will expand the program to power the entire community (approximately 100 dwellings) with the potential to share the technology to other South Texas colonias in the future. “This major step forward will enhance every aspect of living in the colonias,” said Congressman Cuellar. “A little power goes a long way in these communities.” The bill also includes restoration funding for Walnut Branch Park in Seguin. The project will create an adjoining hike and bike trail along the spring fed waterway known as Walnut Branch. The Army Corps of Engineers will add this to their priority list and determine funding amounts next year. Today the House passed H.R. 3183, by a vote of 320-97, making vast investments in energy efficiency including $208 million to modernize the nation’s energy grid with $46 million specifically allocated to combat cyber attacks. Additionally, $2 billion will increase investments in domestic sources of energy and $1.5 billion will advance nuclear non-proliferation, to secure nuclear weapons and prevent nuclear materials from being smuggled into the United States. The bill represents a fiscally responsible approach towards funding America’s needs while trimming excessive spending. This year, all twelve appropriations bills drafted by Congress come in $10 billion below the President’s budget request. In addition, Congressman Cuellar added a cost-savings amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill requiring federal agencies, funded by the bill, to purchase energy-efficient light bulbs. “These light bulbs last longer and use less electricity, which means we’ll spend fewer taxpayer dollars to replace them,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In these hard economic times, we’re sending the right message to American taxpayers. If we spend your money we’ll spend it more efficiently.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.17.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar voted in support of H.R. 3170, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2010, which protects consumers, strengthens financial oversight institutions and invests in community small business programs. The bill also includes $150,000, secured by Congressman Cuellar, for Laredo Community College to develop a small business center to serve South Texas. “I’m pleased to help Laredo Community College create this small business center as a way to support the small business workforce in our region,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This will give our students the resources they need at the local level to be competitive in the global market.” The Advanced Technology Center (ATC) will be a multi-use business center at Laredo Community College, aimed to support and encourage students to enter the small business workforce. ATC will also support workforce education in petrochemical, bio-medical, light manufacturing and computer science programs, and will provide the community with a multi-use space for a variety of economic and business development meetings. H.R. 3170 includes $110 million for small business development centers nationwide to provide counseling and technology training to small businesses. “When we invest in our small businesses, we invest in our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And by supporting small businesses we preserve that entrepreneurial spirit that’s unique to America.” H.R. 3170 passed the House Thursday by a vote of 219-208 and includes $8.5 billion to support the General Services Administration Federal Buildings Fund which oversees the nation’s land ports of entry, including several along the U.S.-Mexico border. “Our land ports of entry are vital to national security and invigorate our nation’s trade,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Thousands of trucks come through Laredo everyday and we have infrastructure needs that need to be addressed. I’m pleased to see this funding modernize all of our land ports of entry and ensure the essential flow of commerce and trade.” The Financial Services Appropriations Bill supports a wide-range of efforts to promote business development, protect American consumers and communities nationwide. The bill supports the Office of National Drug Control Policy and provides $248 million to help federal, state and local law enforcement combat drug-trafficking in high-intensity areas. It also includes $98 million in grants for local community-based coalitions who work to reduce youth drug abuse, and $103 million to safeguard the nation’s financial system against drug traffickers, money launderers, terrorism financiers and other criminals. In recognizing the challenging economic situation, Congressman Cuellar added a cost-savings amendment to H.R. 3170 which prohibits government agencies, funded by the bill, from purchasing first-class travel arrangements unless certain exemptions apply under law. “There has never been a more important time to cut costs and reduce waste,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Americans are cutting back in all aspects of their lives and first-class travel must take a backseat.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.13.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) today applauds House passage of the 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill, which includes over $77 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs and $24 billion for military construction and family housing through fiscal year 2010. The bill marks a historic increase in funding since 2007 and will improve veterans’ quality of care and programs to assist returning troops and their families. "Our veterans and troops have a legacy of going above and beyond the call of duty. This increase in funding shows that Congress respects their service and stands by their needs,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Chairman Edwards and Chairman Obey for their leadership in providing our troops with the quality of care they deserve. We’re improving our veterans’ services and we’re ensuring our facilities can handle the needs of our troops when they come home.” By passing this bill, Congress has increased veterans funding by 58 percent since 2007. Over $34 billion will be invested in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) which is projected to treat more than six million patients in 2010. Funding will repair and enhance existing VA facilities by making a $4.9 billion investment in non-reoccurring maintenance at veterans’ health care centers. And over $440 million will go towards innovative practices to improve access to rural health care programs. “We’re improving our veterans’ facilities while making sure they’re accessible to our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “In fact, I’m working with the VA to bring mobile clinics to our rural communities in the next few months. We’re making sure our veterans get the care they need and the attention they deserve no matter where they live.” The bill also includes over $4.6 billion to be invested in mental health care programs and includes $580 million in special funding for medical and prosthetic research to address the critical needs of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The VHA estimates their medical facilities will treat at least 419,000 patients returning from overseas next year. The bill also includes over $2 billion for VA general operating expenses, enabling the VA to hire an additional 1,200 claims processors to work down a backlog of over 397,000 claims nationwide. Last Friday, Congressman Cuellar spoke on the House floor with Congressman Chet Edwards, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies, asking that these funds address the reported claims backlog at the Regional VA Office in Houston. The Houston Chronicle reports that nearly 18,000 veterans are waiting for their disability applications to be processed. “Most of the disability claims coming from veterans in our region are processed through Houston, and this backlog is one of the worst in nation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I’ve written a letter to VA Secretary Shinseki, and I’m hopeful that he’ll work to see how this funding can address and remedy the problem.” The bill also makes substantial investments to improve military quality of life, including over $2 billion in military housing investments to improve troop barracks and family housing. Since 2007, Congress has funded several initiatives to enhance military services for service members and their families, including over a billion dollars to fund new military child care centers serving over 20,000 children. On August 1, 2009, the new Post 9/11GI Bill will take effect, which is the most comprehensive four year education benefits program to pass since 1944. “We’re funding our troops to unprecedented new levels, letting them know we appreciate their service and we’re letting their families know we appreciate their sacrifices too,” Congressman Cuellar said. The bill passed last Friday with bi-partisan support by a vote of 415-3 and includes other notable provisions supporting our veterans and troops, including: Guard and Reserve Initiative: $200 million in additional funding is provided for Army National Guard, Air National Guard, Army Reserve, Navy and Marine Corps Reserve, and Air Force Reserve construction to address critical unfunded requirements, in recognition of the tremendous contributions made by Guard and Reserve personnel to emergency assistance, homeland security, and national defense. American Battle Monuments Commission: $61.8 million, $1.5 million above the President’s request and $2.3 million above 2009. This funding provides for the care and operation of our military monuments and cemeteries around the world. Armed Forces Retirement Home: $134 million, the same as the President’s request and $71 million above 2009, for the Armed Forces Retirement Home, including $72 million for capital expenditures. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.12.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) applauded Thursday’s House passage of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2010, which invests over $48 billion to bolster U.S. foreign policy efforts and includes a provision authored by Congressman Cuellar that calls for the creation of a high level US-Mexico Commission dedicated to reducing border violence by sharing information and coordinating border security operations between both countries. “What happened last week in Chihuahua State is another glaring reminder that border violence is a critical problem for both Americans and Mexicans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We must act quickly to create a US-Mexico Commission. This bi-national partnership will merge our resources, connect our communications and bridge important efforts already underway. This bilateral alliance will aid information sharing, prevent duplication and facilitate a more unified, more effective response to fighting the drug cartels and the violence they ensue.” The proposed commission would expand bi-national communications between U.S. and Mexico first responders and law enforcement positioned along the Southern Border, aiming to increase the interoperability of these organizations in order to curb the flow of illegal firearms, illicit drugs and bulk cash moving north and south. Congressman Cuellar proposed the provision in April, and it was added to the bill by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs, chaired by Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY). Congressman Cuellar worked with Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, to propose the provision. “Security assistance under the Merida Initiative is crucial. But, just as important, the Merida Initiative has allowed for renewed cooperation between the United States and Mexico,” said Congressman Engel. “This bilateral commission will further deepen our relations, and will especially help to curb the illegal flow of contraband across the United States-Mexico border.” “I appreciate the strong support of Chairwoman Lowey and Chairman Engel, both of whom were instrumental including this provision in the bill,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Their ceaseless dedication and commitment to reducing border violence is unmatched.” The State-Foreign Operations Bill also includes $318 million, which brings total 2009 Merida funding to $572.8 million, which is $168.8 million above last year’s level. The bill also directs $10 million towards bilateral implementation offices where Mexican and U.S. officials work together to fight drug traffickers. This funding is used towards counternarcotics programs in Mexico and Central America to fight narcotics and criminal gangs. Additionally, the bill also includes an amendment authored by Congressman Cuellar which prohibits agencies funded by the State-Foreign Appropriations Bill from booking first-class travel for their employees, unless certain exemptions apply under law. “This sets an important standard in these hard economic times,” said Congressman Cuellar. “While we applaud our agencies for the good work they do, we have to spend American taxpayer dollars responsibly.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.10.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) voted to pass the Agriculture and Rural Development Appropriations Bill, 2010, which provides over $24 billion to the Department of Agriculture to fund low-income food programs, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), rural development programs, agricultural research and over $13 million in fever tick research dollars for South Texas. The bill also includes a glucose screening pilot program, authored by Congressman Cuellar, to fight diabetes and lower obesity rates. “In these hard economic times, we have to make sure our families can still put healthy food on the table, and ensure we don’t compromise the quality of food in their lives,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Everyone knows agriculture is a big slice of South Texas, and these fever tick funds will help our cattlemen fight a problem unique to our region, found nowhere else in the nation.” Working with the Appropriations Committee, Congressman Cuellar helped secure $13.1 million for fever tick research to develop new strategies to eradicate fever ticks from South Texas cattle farms. The bill also includes nearly $3 billion for rural development, including rural housing, water projects, community facilities and economic development efforts. Recognizing the challenging economic situation, the bill also expands the Nutrition for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program, helping an additional 700,000 women and children gain access to nutritious food. Congressman Cuellar also authored a provision in the bill which creates a WIC pilot program adding glucose testing to WIC enrollee screening. Currently, screening is limited to anemia testing. Glucose screenings will help detect juvenile diabetes, adult diabetes and help lower obesity rates. “This year we’ve put a premium on our nation’s health, ensuring healthy food and healthy lives. And we’re investing in our rural communities. Nearly three billion dollars will go towards rural development,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And as we fund these efforts we have to make sure we spend the money responsibly. Which is why I’m pleased my first-class travel amendment was included in the bill.” Congressman Cuellar included an amendment to the bill that prohibits agencies from booking first-class travel for their employees, unless certain exemptions apply under law. “This sets an important standard as millions of Americans have reprioritized their lives because of the economic crisis,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill passed in the House by a vote of 266 to 160. The bill focuses on protecting public health, bolstering food nutrition programs, agriculture research and strengthening animal health programs. Other notable provisions of the bill include the following: Food and Drug Administration: $2.3 billion in discretionary funding for fiscal year 2010, an increase of almost $299 million above fiscal year 2009. Commodity Supplemental Food Program: $180 million to provide nutritious food to over half a million low-income women, children and elderly citizens struggling with rising food costs. Texas is one of 32 states enrolled in the program and it will expand to six other states this year. Agricultural Research: $1.2 billion for the Agriculture Research Program and $1.253 billion for the National Institute for Food and Agriculture (formerly called CSREES) Animal and Plant Health: $886 million to fund programs that protect American agriculture against animal and plant disease. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.09.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar joined legendary energy expert T. Boone Pickens yesterday to discuss and promote major natural gas legislation aimed at transforming the country’s use of natural gas. The Congressman met with Pickens on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to promote the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act, a bill which would rapidly expand natural gas production in Texas and nationwide. “Together we discussed South Texas’s role in the Natural Gas Act, and I explained to Pickens how our region of the state is the third-leading producer of natural gas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “What a great opportunity to meet a former oil tycoon who now believes in the future of natural gas. It’s cleaner than coal, we have plenty in South Texas and natural gas will help get us off foreign oil.” The New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act, or NAT GAS Act, would quickly reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign energy by ramping up the nation’s use of natural gas powered vehicles. It requires the federal government to set a national standard by purchasing more alternative fuel vehicles for its federal fleet. Two weeks ago, Congressman Cuellar secured a major natural gas amendment in the American Clean Energy & Security Act, which indefinitely requires that 75% of all new vehicles purchased for the federal fleet are alternative fuel vehicles, powered by alternative fuels such as natural gas. Pickens applauded the Congressman for his initiative on natural gas. “As a supporter of the NAT GAS Act, Congressman Cuellar is a true energy independence crusader, proving his commitment to enabling his constituents in South Texas to choose a legitimately American fuel at the pump,” said Pickens. “Natural gas is the only available domestic resource that can replace foreign oil as a transportation fuel. It’s cleaner, it’s cheaper, it’s abundant, and it’s ours.” Congressman Cuellar sponsored the NAT GAS Act for its multi-pronged approach towards ramping up natural gas production. The bill extends federal tax credits to manufacturers and purchasers of natural gas powered vehicles for the next 18 years. Without an extension the existing tax credits will expire in 2010. Under the bill, bio-fuel vehicles are eligible for tax credits worth 50% of the vehicle’s cost and natural gas vehicles are eligible for tax credits worth 80% of the vehicle’s cost. “Tax credits like these encourage consumers to purchase alternative fuel vehicles and will encourage manufacturers to make more of them in the future,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By fueling our cars with natural gas, our producers produce more and our region gets the return.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.08.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today testified before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, asking Congress to authorize a study for the designation of the Los Caminos del Rio region of South Texas to be named as a National Heritage Corridor. The 200 mile Rio Grande region would join 49 other national heritage landmarks and could be the first area in Texas to bear the national heritage designation. “South Texas is blessed with such a rich cultural history from places like Los Caminos del Rio,” said Congressman Cuellar. “From just north of Laredo down to Brownsville, the history along the river dates back to the 1500’s. What an honor it will be to have the National Park Service recognize our region with such distinction.” In April 2009, Congressman Cuellar introduced H.R. 2167, a bill authorizing the Interior Secretary to study the Los Caminos region in order for the area to be designated as a National Heritage Corridor, with support from fellow Texas U.S. Representatives Solomon Ortiz and Rubén Hinojosa. Today, alongside representatives from the U.S. National Park Service, Congressman Cuellar explained the historical significance of the Rio Grande border region. “This 200 mile stretch is made of farms, ranches and cultural gems where small towns reflect the rich blend of Hispanic and Anglo cultures,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The National Park Service understands that this is one of the most ecologically diverse regions in North America with a flourishing mix of unique history and culture.” Pending passage of Congressman Cuellar’s bill, the National Park Service would commission a study to determine if Los Caminos del Rio, also known as “the roads of the river,” should be designated as a National Heritage Area. All heritage areas are designated by Congress; notable ones include Niagara Falls, Arizona’s Yuma Crossing and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Bearing the designation helps local regions create long-term innovative partnerships with the National Park Service to gain more exposure for their communities. “Los Caminos Del Rio is an important environmental and cultural development opportunity that benefits all of deep South Texas,” said Texas Congressman Rubén Hinojosa, a co-sponsor of the bill. “Communities up and down the Texas border will benefit from the increased tourism and recreational opportunities that can result from this new designation.” “I am proud to support legislation that would designate the Los Caminos Del Rio region as a National Heritage Area along the Rio Grande and the U.S.-Mexico border,” said Texas Congressman Solomon P. Ortiz. “The stretch it covers is diverse, just as its people, and deserving of such recognition.” Stretching for 200 miles between the cities of Laredo/Nuevo Laredo and Brownsville/Matamoros, the area known as Los Caminos del Rio encompasses a rich cultural history for both the United States and Mexico. “The river plays an important role in unifying the region’s inhabitants, linking and unifying communities on both sides of the border for more than 250 years,” said Daniel Wenk, Acting Director of the U.S. National Park Service. The National Heritage Corridor would stretch along the border from just north of Laredo southeast to Brownsville. It includes the environmentally significant region known as the “Tampaulipan brushland” which boasts one of the most biologically diverse ecosystems in the United States. The corridor showcases the legacies of early colonial Spanish settlements, military conflicts, trade and agriculture, depicting a story of regional and national importance. If Congress approves H.R. 2167, the National Park Service would commission a study of the region within three years of the bill’s passage to determine the feasibility of designating the region as an official National Heritage Area. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
07.08.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today testified before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, asking Congress to authorize a study for the designation of the Los Caminos del Rio region of South Texas to be named as a National Heritage Corridor. The 200 mile Rio Grande region would join 49 other national heritage landmarks and could be the first area in Texas to bear the national heritage designation. “South Texas is blessed with such a rich cultural history from places like Los Caminos del Rio,” said Congressman Cuellar. “From just north of Laredo down to Brownsville, the history along the river dates back to the 1500’s. What an honor it will be to have the National Park Service recognize our region with such distinction.” In April 2009, Congressman Cuellar introduced H.R. 2167, a bill authorizing the Interior Secretary to study the Los Caminos region in order for the area to be designated as a National Heritage Corridor, with support from fellow Texas U.S. Representatives Solomon Ortiz and Rubén Hinojosa. Today, alongside representatives from the U.S. National Park Service, Congressman Cuellar explained the historical significance of the Rio Grande border region. “This 200 mile stretch is made of farms, ranches and cultural gems where small towns reflect the rich blend of Hispanic and Anglo cultures,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The National Park Service understands that this is one of the most ecologically diverse regions in North America with a flourishing mix of unique history and culture.” Pending passage of Congressman Cuellar’s bill, the National Park Service would commission a study to determine if Los Caminos del Rio, also known as “the roads of the river,” should be designated as a National Heritage Area. All heritage areas are designated by Congress; notable ones include Niagara Falls, Arizona’s Yuma Crossing and the Blue Ridge Mountains. Bearing the designation helps local regions create long-term innovative partnerships with the National Park Service to gain more exposure for their communities. “Los Caminos Del Rio is an important environmental and cultural development opportunity that benefits all of deep South Texas,” said Texas Congressman Rubén Hinojosa, a co-sponsor of the bill. “Communities up and down the Texas border will benefit from the increased tourism and recreational opportunities that can result from this new designation.” “I am proud to support legislation that would designate the Los Caminos Del Rio region as a National Heritage Area along the Rio Grande and the U.S.-Mexico border,” said Texas Congressman Solomon P. Ortiz. “The stretch it covers is diverse, just as its people, and deserving of such recognition.” Stretching for 200 miles between the cities of Laredo/Nuevo Laredo and Brownsville/Matamoros, the area known as Los Caminos del Rio encompasses a rich cultural history for both the United States and Mexico. “The river plays an important role in unifying the region’s inhabitants, linking and unifying communities on both sides of the border for more than 250 years,” said Daniel Wenk, Acting Director of the U.S. National Park Service. The National Heritage Corridor would stretch along the border from just north of Laredo southeast to Brownsville. It includes the environmentally significant region known as the “Tampaulipan brushland” which boasts one of the most biologically diverse ecosystems in the United States. The corridor showcases the legacies of early colonial Spanish settlements, military conflicts, trade and agriculture, depicting a story of regional and national importance. If Congress approves H.R. 2167, the National Park Service would commission a study of the region within three years of the bill’s passage to determine the feasibility of designating the region as an official National Heritage Area. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.30.2009	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, joined by South Texas College and University of Texas Pan American officials, announced the benefits of a college loans reduction program that makes student loan payments manageable for millions of Americans, including tens of thousands of South Texans. This includes cheaper interest rates on need-based federal loans, affordable monthly payments, and higher Pell Grant scholarships that cover the average tuition at public universities. Starting Wednesday, July 1, interest rates on student college loans will drop from 6 to 5.6 percent. This reduction in interest rates is part of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 that Congress passed with Congressman Cuellar's support. The rates will continue to drop until they reach 3.4 percent in 2011. In addition, a clause in the law caps borrowers’ monthly loan payments at just 15 percent of their income (15 percent of what the borrower earns above 150 percent of the poverty level depending on the size of the family). Those who earn less than $16,000 would not have to make any monthly payments. “These savings will allow us to keep more money in our pocketbooks. And in these challenging economic times, we all know that every penny we can save is welcomed,” said Congressman Cuellar. The maximum amount of Pell Grant scholarship for the 2009-2010 school year will also be affected, increasing to $5,350 – more than $600 of what was allowed last year. Also, this law provides up-front tuition assistance – known as TEACH Grants – of $4,000 a year for a maximum of $16,000 to students who commit to teaching high-need areas in high-need schools for four years after graduation. College graduates who enter into pubic service careers such as teachers, public defenders and prosecutors, firefighters, nurses, non-profit workers and more, will be eligible for loan forgiveness after 10 years of qualifying public service. “Living in South Texas, we all know that some of these high-need areas and schools are in our own backyard. What a great way to motivate our students to proceed with a career in the teaching or public service field – one of the most nobles, yet one of the most rewarding careers,” added Congressman Cuellar. “Providing affordable and convenient access to quality higher education to the residents from Hidalgo and Starr counties has always been a priority for me. The increased funding for Pell Grant Scholarships will be of tremendous help to the thousands of students at South Texas College who have made the heroic decision to attend college. It provides students the opportunity to begin their career pathways towards a better quality of life for themselves and their families,” said Shirley A. Reed, President of South Texas College. “These are extraordinary measures that will certainly go a long way in helping UTPA achieve its mission of student access and success. In fact, almost all our students will be positively impacted in one way or another,” said University of Texas Pan American Interim President Dr. Charles A. Sorber. “Consider that half the UTPA population of 17,500 is eligible for Pell Grants and one third of our students receive loans in their quest for a degree and a career.” # # # Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.25.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) helped pass late Wednesday H.R. 2892, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2010, funding $44 billion for the Department of Homeland Security and the agencies it oversees. It includes over $10 billion for U.S. Customs and Border Protection and over $5 billion for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. As part of the bill, the House overwhelmingly passed Congressman Cuellar’s amendment preventing those government agencies funded by H.R. 2892 from booking first-class travel with taxpayer dollars, except for certain exemptions under law. “With this bill we’ve voted to secure this country, channeling dollars to the frontlines of our borders, our ports and to those organizations that protect the homeland everyday. Their hard work keeps us safe at home,” said Congressman Cuellar. “At the same time, there has never been a more important time to cut costs and reduce waste, and first-class travel on the taxpayer dime must take a backseat.” The House passed the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act 2010 by a vote of 389-37, and appropriated $44 billion to the Department of Homeland Security which oversees seven major departments, such as CBP, ICE and FEMA. Over $11 billion will go towards combating border violence and drug trafficking along the Southern border, including over $3.5 billion to fund 20,219 Border Patrol agents, 17,000 of whom will be based on the Southern border. There will be $26.1 million for counterdrug initiatives, including $10 million for additional scanning systems for southbound lanes. “These dollars make it possible for our border patrol agents to do their jobs, and it expands the resources they have on the ground to protect our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And by creating over 500 new jobs, this bill puts Americans to work as it works to secure our nation.” The bill also provides $4.9 million of increased funding for Customs and Border Protection to handle the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which as of June 1st, requires all travelers to use passports or other approved travel documentation when reentering the United States by land and sea. And there is an additional $60 million for Operation Stonegarden, to assist border communities with additional law enforcement costs associated with border security. Other parts of the bill include funding for the following: Coast Guard: $9.97 billion of mandatory funding and money to improve port security, marine safety and efforts to stop the flow of illegal drugs into this country, $1.3 billion specifically to be used towards maritime narcotics enforcement. ICE: $97.8 million for ICE to combat international trade in illicit drugs, weapons smuggling and crimes associated with violence along the Southern border; $70 million will specifically. FEMA: $2 billion in disaster relief funding and $935 million for FEMA response and support. State Grants: $950 million for states, including Texas, to train and equip local first responders to respond to acts of terrorism and catastrophic events. Fire Grants: $810 million to help local fire departments staff and equip their departments (including SAFER grants) TSA: $7.7 billion to fund the Transportation and Security Administration, including $1 billion in funding to purchase and install explosive detection systems at airports nationwide. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.19.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) voted late Thursday to approve H.R. 2847, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, major federal funding legislation which includes a cost-savings amendment, authored by Congressman Cuellar, that saves American taxpayer dollars spent on electricity. In addition, the bill includes substantial funding towards the purchase of equipment for the South Texas Forensics Laboratory, and over $3 billion to combat drug trafficking along the border. The bill passed with a bipartisan majority of 259-157. “This legislation represents two priorities I believe in, keeping our communities safe and looking out for taxpayers’ dollars. Everyday, the American people are trying to get more value for their money, and we should ask the federal government to do the same,” said Congressman Cuellar. “My amendment ensures that the federal government makes a long-term investment in lowering the amount of taxpayer dollars wasted on inefficient technology.” Congressman Cuellar included a cost-saving amendment in H.R. 2847, requiring all government agencies funded by the appropriations bill to purchase light bulbs that meet ENERGY Star or Federal Energy Management Standards. Energy efficient light bulbs that meet these standards, use 75% less energy and last eight to twelve times longer than regular incandescent light bulbs, thereby reducing maintenance and replacement costs, ultimately saving taxpayer dollars. The Cuellar amendment passed by an overwhelming bipartisan majority. The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act provides $3.4 billion in state and local law enforcement grants, including $250,000 Congressman Cuellar secured for the South Texas Forensics Laboratory to purchase forensics equipment to serve Webb County and surrounding counties’ local law enforcement agencies. These agencies and other components of the local criminal justice system, such as prosecutors’ offices, will have access to this forensics laboratory specializing in the criminal examination of physical and biological evidence. “It’s no secret that South Texas law enforcement suffers from limited access to full service forensic laboratories, and there’s already been a casework backlog in our overburdened facilities. Our brave local law enforcement officers work hard to uphold our criminal justice system, and these funds ensure that investigations are completed more accurately and efficiently,” said Congressman Cuellar. Thursday’s legislation, H.R. 2847, is bipartisan legislation funding commerce, justice and science related federal agencies through fiscal year 2010. It invests in two of the nation’s top priorities –protecting Americans at home and spurring scientific research and innovation. H.R. 2847 also includes significant investments in securing the U.S.-Mexico border: DEA: $2 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration to combat drug trafficking, establishing 128 new positions in the Southern U.S. and enhances resources to investigate, disrupt and dismantle Mexican drug cartels ATF: $1.1 billion in funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to reduce violent crime and combat drug trafficking along the Southern border Border Sheriffs: $4.85 million for the Texas border county sheriff organizations, secured by Congressman John Culberson (TX-7) and strongly supported by Congressman Cuellar And additional significant funds for state and local law enforcement programs: COPS: Provides $802 million for the COPS program. This includes $298 million for COPS Hiring Grants. When combined with the $1 billion provided in the Recovery Act for COPS hiring grants, this will enable the hiring of more than 7,000 police officers including nearly 400 in Texas Byrne Justice Assistance Grants: Provides $529 million for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program, which grants are used by local law enforcement agencies for a broad range of activities to better fight and prevent crime State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): The President’s budget proposes eliminating funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), which assists state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status. The bill rejects this elimination – instead providing $300 million Upon Thursday’s passage in the House, H.R. 2847, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, will move to the Senate for approval. Pending that approval, the legislation would ultimately move to the President’s desk for signature. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.16.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) today voted in support of the 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Act, major federal funding legislation worth $106 billion which supports U.S. troop efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, secures the Southwest border region against drugs and arms trafficking, protects Americans from pandemic flu outbreaks, and provides rebate funding for millions of Americans trading-in older vehicles for ones with better fuel efficiency. “Today we help the American people here at home while supporting our servicemen and women defending our freedoms overseas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We secured the dollars necessary to outfit our troops with the equipment they need, and we ensured they’ll be rightly compensated for their tremendous service to country.” The legislation replenishes military pay accounts and provides compensation to 185,000 troops who experienced stop-loss orders and remained on active duty longer than planned. These service members and veterans will receive $500 for each month they served under stop-loss orders since 2001. In addition, the bill provides over $420 million to address growing drug-related violence along the U.S.-Mexico border, by assisting Mexico’s Government in their fight against organized crime and bolstering support for U.S. federal agencies working to draw down drug trafficking. “This is an incredible boost to those law enforcement agencies who’ve been working hard in the fight to take on the cartels, and who are trying to stop the flow of drugs and weapons crossing our border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds trickle down to our communities by ultimately making our streets more safe.” An additional $100 million will help U.S. federal agencies fight against narcotics and firearms trafficking along the Southwest border, and $158 million will support the Department of Homeland Security respond to security issues in the border region. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will also receive $11.8 million for the care and treatment of unaccompanied non-resident children. On Tuesday, H.R. 2346 the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009, passed by a vote of 226-202, and will fully fund U.S. related military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan through the end of the fiscal year. In addition, it provides $1 billion towards the “Cash for Clunkers” program, providing consumers with vouchers worth a minimum of $3,500 to $4,500 to go towards the purchase of new more fuel efficient vehicles when they trade-in older automobiles. “At a time when Americans struggle with rising gas prices, I’m pleased we can offer some relief to those people looking to trade in their older vehicles for ones that get more miles on the gallon,” Congressman Cuellar said. Pandemic Flu Preparedness is also a major component of the bill, calling for over $7 billion in contingent emergency appropriations which expand detection efforts, supplement federal vaccine stockpiles and develop preparedness plans. Texas will qualify for a portion of the $350 million allocated to state and local governments in preparing for and responding to a pandemic outbreak, as to be determined by Health and Human Services and the Center for Disease Control. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.15.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), today with the unanimous support of his House of Representatives colleagues, passed H.R. 2325, a bill to name Laredo’s Post Office at 1300 Matamoros Street in honor of Laredoan, Texan and American veterans. “Every American knows someone who has served or is serving, and naming Laredo’s post office in honor of their service is the least we can do to honor their sacrifice,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Nearly two million veterans, almost ten percent of veterans nationwide, call Texas home. So we must honor their service with our immense gratitude.” Congressman Cuellar introduced the legislation on May 7, 2009, and today the House passed the bill unanimously by a vote of 374-0. Once signed by the President, the postal facility on Matamoros Street will officially be named “Laredo Veterans Post Office.” “After our veterans have devoted themselves to us, we have a responsibility to honor them in any way we can,” said Congressman Cuellar. “And by naming this local landmark in their honor, we send a sincere ‘thank-you’ to veterans here and abroad.” The bill received full support from the Texas congressional delegation when Congressman Cuellar introduced the legislation in May, and he looks forward to seeing it through to the President’s desk. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.12.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, applauds U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on the launch of the Secure Communities Program, an initiative to enhance the abilities of five South Texas counties to check the criminal and immigration records of inmates in an effort to ensure criminal non-residents are not rereleased into the community. In coordination with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Hidalgo, Bexar, Starr, Webb and Zapata county sheriffs’ departments will have access to the Department of Homeland Security’s biometric system to scan for immigration records when booking individuals into their jails. This modernized information system scans the biometric fingerprints of individuals who are being incarcerated and informs ICE when non-resident criminals enter the jail system. A system of prioritized enforcement actions follow thereafter, as ICE works to ensure the highest-threat level non-resident criminals are not rereleased into the community. “I congratulate and applaud ICE and the sheriff departments in our district who’ve been working together so diligently in an effort to stop non-resident criminals from being rereleased onto our streets once they serve their time,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This program is a major enhancement to the resources of our counties’ law enforcement organizations and will maximize the use of federal systems already set in place. I have no doubt this will help make our communities more secure.” Last week, Hidalgo and Starr counties rolled out their new programs, and in the coming weeks Bexar, Webb and Zapata counties will participate too. The Secure Communities Program is a nationwide effort between 52 participating counties and ICE. It connects existing local law enforcement databases to both the DHS and FBI biometric systems. Last year, ICE identified more than 221,000 potentially removable persons in our nations’ jails and reports that over one-third of all illegal immigrants deported last year were convicted criminals. President Barack Obama publicly supports this program, and Congress has appropriated over $1 billion towards the initiative since last year along with the support of Congressman Henry Cuellar. Key Facts: According to ICE, over 300,000 inmates nationwide are non-resident criminals ICE Reports that 25% of Hidalgo County Detention Facility Inmates are non-resident criminals, out of an inmate population of 1,232 By 2012, ICE hopes to expand this program nationwide. Currently, major cities such as Dallas, Houston, Boston and Miami are a part of this program Based on the pilot program, the agency estimates that if fingerprints from all 14 million bookings in local jails each year were screened, about 1.4 million "criminal aliens" would be found For additional information please visit http://www.ice.gov/secure_communities/ where you can access the U.S. Customs and Immigrations Enforcement fact sheet on the program. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.11.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) voted late Wednesday in support of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act which includes sweeping measures to crackdown on small arms trafficking from the United States to Mexico by increasing existing penalties to unprecedented new standards. The bill also establishes a “Merida Coordinator” to track all Merida Initiative-related efforts throughout the U.S. government and allows for new information sharing between U.S. federal agencies and Mexico. “I’m pleased to see the President will be appointing a Merida Initiative coordinator to oversee how we carry out those important programs, and by allowing our countries’ law enforcement agencies to engage in information sharing we’re maximizing our efforts and resources on both sides of the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These new standards strengthen our working relationship with Mexico as both countries work to contain the violence along the border and stop the flow of illegal firearms headed south.” The bill creates an interagency task force to coordinate U.S. government efforts to prevent illegal firearms trafficking from the United States to Mexico and throughout the Western Hemisphere. The small arms trafficking measure increases existing fines from $1 million to the upwards of $3 million and increases potential prison time for such trafficking from 10 years to 20 years. In addition, it grants the Mexican Congress access to critical U.S. border related information to coordinate and improve drug-related oversight activities. After participating in the 48th Mexico-U.S. Interparliamentary Group Meeting last week, Congressman Cuellar worked diligently with his colleagues Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), Congressman Ed Pastor (D-AZ), Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Chairman Howard Berman (D-CA), the Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, to craft a provision to address numerous concerns expressed by Mexican officials. The provision, ultimately included in the manager’s amendment by Chairman Berman, seeks to enhance Mexico’s law enforcement agencies’ access to valuable information instrumental in addressing border-related issues. “I’m very pleased that this provision will help the United States partner up with Mexico in a more effective way to solve our common problems. It gives these officials information we already have, information they can use,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is a major enhancement to our existing partnership as we both continue working towards better securing our borders and protecting our communities.” The Foreign Relations Authorization Act (HR 2410) passed the House late Wednesday by a vote of 298-119 and supports a wide range of U.S. national security goals. It authorizes resources necessary to diplomacy efforts abroad and supports the President’s request to close a “diplomacy gap” in overseas posts. It also provides a significant number of resources for public diplomacy officers, arms control experts and counterterrorism specialists. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
06.09.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) a Deputy Whip of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition, joined President Barack Obama at the White House today where the President announced a new initiative to reign in government excess by requiring lawmakers to offset new spending with budget cuts and other revenue enhancements. The new spending rules, known as “pay-as-you-go” or “PAYGO”, aim to slash the soaring $1.8 trillion national debt and could save American taxpayers up to $40 billion a year. “In these difficult economic times, Americans are tightening up their budgets and Congress must do the same. It’s time to balance the books and stop short-changing future generations,” said Congressman Cuellar, as a member of the Blue Dog Budget Task Force, has been working to reduce the national deficit by sponsoring legislation similar to the President’s plan unveiled today. “President Obama and the Blue Dogs are committed to bringing back the spending rules from the 1990’s, when Congress could only spend a dollar if it saved a dollar first, which led to a budget surplus” President Obama invited Congressman Cuellar, the Blue Dog Coalition and other fiscally conservative Senators and Members of Congress to attend the announcement at the White House this afternoon. This is the first piece of legislation President Obama has ever transmitted to Congress. “I’m pleased that President Obama shares my belief in bringing our books to balance and addressing the issue of our nation’s long-term fiscal sustainability. By making PAYGO the first bill he sends to Congress, President Obama is making a strong statement about the colossal importance of restoring our nation’s economic security. I look forward to working with the President and my congressional colleagues in the coming weeks to reenact this vital initiative into law.” Congressman Cuellar added. The Blue Dogs work with a core commitment to the nation’s financial stability. This April, Congressman Cuellar was a lead sponsor of the Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act, pay-as-you-go legislation that restores fiscal responsibility in Congress. These initiatives are similar to action taken in the late 1990’s when budget rules proved instrumental in producing budget surpluses. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.18.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that Caroline Elizabeth Lopez and Kevin Michael Beauchemin, both of Schertz, and Daniel A. Slade, formerly of San Antonio, have accepted appointments to join the 2013 class of the United States Military Service Academies. Congressman Cuellar provides service academy nominations as one step in the military academies’ application process. To earn a nomination, students participate in a lengthy review process that evaluates their academic histories, leadership skills, extracurricular activities, and personal essays. “These exceptional students represent some of the best that Texas has to offer,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Their leadership skills, academic strengths, moral character, and commitment to duty are exactly what our military services need to succeed in today’s challenging world. I offer my sincere congratulations to these students and wish them the best in their service to our country.” Caroline Lopez is a graduate of Samuel Clemens High School and has accepted an appointment to United States Naval Academy. Ms. Lopez has been involved in the Clemens High School Marching Band, Concert Band, and Cheerleading Squad, and is ranked third in her class. Kevin Beauchemin is a graduate of Randolph High School and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Mr. Beauchemin has been a varsity power lifter for four years and became the first three-year drum major in his school’s history. Daniel Slade is a graduate of Aviano High School and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy. Mr. Slade has been a member of both the Varsity Cross Country and Varsity Track teams, an Eagle Scout and member of the Order of the Arrow, and is ranked eighth in his class. Residents of the Texas 28th Congressional District who would like to learn more about Congressman Cuellar’s service academy nomination program or to receive a nomination application can visit / or contact Loretta Kerner at 1-877-780-0028. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.14.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2346, the Fiscal Year 2009 Supplemental Appropriations Bill: “This bill serves as a direct response to the urgent challenges facing America today, including the mounting threat of pandemic flu and the rising tide of Mexican drug violence. “To fight potential pandemic flu strains such as H1N1, it includes $2 billion to develop and purchase vaccines, to stockpile antiviral drugs, and to track and limit the spread of disease. “To meet the challenges of Mexican drug violence, it invests $470 million in the Merida Initiative to help prevent the fighting from spilling across into the U.S. “To face head-on the challenges of securing our border, the bill sets aside $350 million for potential National Guard deployments for counternarcotics and other operations. The National Guard has a proven track record of stemming illegal drug smuggling, and these funds provide the operational flexibility that our commanders need to effectively enforce America’s laws. “As Congress meets these urgent needs, we must also realize that America cannot afford to continue running trillion-dollar deficits forever. After years of irresponsible and wasteful spending, we have been left with an enormous debt and a severe lack of fiscal discipline. We must follow up on today’s emergency appropriations by passing strong, enforceable laws to limit deficit spending and put our nation’s budget back on track.” The bill now moves to the Senate for further action. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.14.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined a bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives to pass H.R. 2187, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act, which makes critical investments to modernize, upgrade, and repair school facilities across the country. Included in the bill is an estimated $569 million in new funding for Texas schools. “It is impossible to overstate the importance of $569 million to our local schools and our state economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Not only will this investment create jobs right away, but it will resonate for years to come as Texas children grow into better-educated, more productive adults.” The legislation authorizes $6.4 billion for school facilities projects for FY 2010 to create healthier, safer, and more energy-efficient teaching and learning climates. Research has demonstrated that better school facilities result in improved student achievement and teacher recruitment and retention: 40% of teachers who transferred schools and 39% who left teaching cited the need for significant school repairs as a source of their dissatisfaction. Also included in the bill are two provisions authored by Congressman Cuellar. The first, coauthored with Congressman Bobby Bright of Alabama, would set aside 5% of the bill’s overall funding – about $320 million – for areas recovering from a natural disaster or suffering severe economic distress. “As the chairman of the Emergency Preparedness Subcommittee, I’ve seen firsthand how challenging it can be for local governments to rebuild and repair schools after a natural disaster,” Congressman Cuellar said. “No bill can erase the pain and suffering caused by a natural disaster, but this provision will at least ensure that students in disaster areas always have a decent place to learn.” Congressman Cuellar’s second amendment, a bipartisan provision coauthored with Congressman Phil Roe of Tennessee, will study the impact of the bill’s repair and modernization efforts on student performance. “This amendment provides for an ongoing, in-depth examination of which specific school improvements produce concrete gains in student achievement,” Congressman Cuellar explained. “It will provide a roadmap for future spending to ensure that education dollars are invested as efficiently and effectively as possible.” The legislation will now head to the U.S. Senate for further action. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.07.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined a bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act. The bill, which cracks down on predatory lending practices and ensures that the mortgage industry follows basic principles of sound lending, responsibility, and consumer protection, passed the U.S. House on a 300-114 vote. Included in the bill were amendments authored by Congressman Cuellar to study the real-world impact of a major new lending accountability measure and to provide housing counseling in Texas colonias. “There is no doubt that today’s financial crisis is the result of irresponsible, abusive, and predatory practices in mortgage lending,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill is a direct response to the collapse of the housing market, and it will help to rebuild an economy that reflects our values of fairness and responsibility.” A key provision the bill would require mortgage lenders to retain a 5% stake in the loans that they originate. The measure is intended to address a critical vulnerability in the mortgage market that contributed to the economic collapse. “In the run-up to the financial crisis, many lenders had no reason to care whether a borrower could afford the payments on their mortgages,” Congressman Cuellar explained. “By the time payments came due, the lender had already pocketed the closing fees, repackaged the debt into securities, and offloaded the risk to someone else.” Congressman Cuellar amended the bill to require the Government Accountability Office to assess whether the 5% requirement is the appropriate stake to reduce systemic risks, to monitor any shifts in practice by securitizers attempting to evade the new rule, and to recommend to Congress whether additional accountability measures are needed. “This amendment is all about governing with our eyes open,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Requiring lenders to maintain a stake in their loans is a promising first step. Now we must conduct the oversight needed to ensure that this law is actually protecting homeowners, rebuilding the economy, and preventing this kind of collapse from ever happening again.” Congressman Cuellar’s second amendment would clarify the mission of the new Office of Housing Counseling in the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The original legislation instructed the office to focus on “areas that lack sufficient services”; Congressman Cuellar’s language ensures that colonias are included among these high-priority areas. “By recognizing the unique economic challenges facing colonias, my amendment ensures that residents have access to the guidance and support that all borrowers need to ensure that they get the best deal possible,” Congressman Cuellar said. In addition to Congressman Cuellar’s provisions, the bill includes numerous other measures to crack down on predatory practices and promote responsible lending: Requires lenders to ensure a borrower's ability to repay, based on income, credit history, indebtedness and other factors. Prohibits unfair lending practices, including the bonuses known as "yield spread premiums" that lenders pay to brokers to inflate the cost of loans. Brings accountability to the secondary market for home loans by holding participants liable under federal law for ensuring responsible lending Imposes penalties for irresponsible lending by making predatory lenders accountable to consumers for rescission of the loan and the consumer’s costs for rescission. Expands protections for high-cost mortgages by lowering the interest rate and the points and fee triggers that define high cost loans. Requires additional disclosures for consumers regarding mortgage loans, including the maximum that a consumer could pay on a variable rate mortgage, the amount of settlement charges, the charges included in the mortgage, the amount the consumer must pay at closing, and the fees paid to a mortgage originator. Protects tenants who rent homes that go into foreclosure by providing tenants with 90 days to relocate if they are using a unit as a primary residence. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.06.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that, under new rules issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), certain areas of Hidalgo County are now eligible to apply for millions of dollars in USDA rural development funding. The rule change resulted from legislative language that Congressman Cuellar authored and included in the committee report for the 2008 Farm Bill. Projects eligible for funding include those that will create or preserve quality jobs or promote a clean rural environment. Congressman Cuellar said, “In today’s challenging economy, many rural Hidalgo County communities have been especially hard hit. The law that I helped to write will expand these areas’ eligibility for millions of dollars in federal funding, helping to create new jobs, strengthen the rural economy, and put South Texas families back on the path to success.” Projects located within the Cities of Palmview, Pharr, Hidalgo, Alton, LaJoya, and Penitas will now be considered for the following programs: Business and Industry Loan Guarantees are provided by USDA Rural Development to help local lenders provide credit needed for expansion and preservation of jobs in rural communities. The guarantee allows lenders to make larger loans, provide better rates and terms, and bring additional capital into the community. Loan proceeds may be used for working capital, purchase of machinery and equipment, purchase of buildings and real estate, and certain types of debt refinancing. Rural Business Enterprise Grants finance and facilitate the development of small and emerging rural businesses, help fund distance learning networks, and help fund employment related adult education programs. Rural Business Opportunity Grants provide technical assistance for business development and conducting economic development planning. The Intermediary Relending Program awards loans on a competitive basis and are intended to foster rural development through business loans for real estate, equipment, working capital, and refinancing for non-farm businesses. The Rural Economic Development Loan Program provides financing to eligible Rural Utilities Service electric or telecommunications borrowers to promote rural economic development and job creation projects. USDA Rural Development works to ensure that rural citizens can participate fully in the global economy by providing technical assistance, funding, and other programs that help rural Americans build strong economies to improve their quality of life. For more information regarding USDA Rural Development Programs, visit http://rurdev.usda.gov/tx/. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.05.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28) and Congressman Dennis Moore (KS-03) last week introduced H.R. 2142, the Government Efficiency, Effectiveness, and Performance Improvement Act. The legislation would provide congressional policy makers with better information on program performance so that they can conduct more effective oversight, improve the effectiveness of agency and program operations and ensure that taxpayer money is being used efficiently and effectively. “In these challenging economic times, it is more important than ever to protect taxpayers against wasteful or irresponsible government spending,” Congressman Cuellar said. "This bill requires a much-needed look at federal programs to ensure that every dollar is spent as effectively and efficiently as possible. It is a key first step on the road toward balanced budgets, and Congressman Moore and I will continue to work to promote fiscal responsibility and rein in wasteful spending." To improve the federal government’s performance management process and increase the availability and transparency of performance information, the Government Efficiency, Effectiveness, and Performance Improvement Act would: Program Assessments – Require that every federal program be assessed at least once every five years to evaluate the clarity of the program’s purpose and objectives, the quality of the program’s management and organizational design, the quality of the program’s strategic and performance planning and goals and the effectiveness of the program in meeting its strategic objectives. Assessment Reports – Require that comprehensive assessment reports summarizing the findings of each assessment be submitted along with the President’s budget every year. Improvement Plans – Require agencies to submit, within 90 days after the submission of assessment reports, improvement plans that lay out the managerial, organizational and operational reforms the agency will implement to respond to issues raised in the assessment report and to improve the performance of the program. Agency Performance Improvement Officers and the Performance Improvement Council – Create “agency performance improvement officers” to supervise the performance management activities of agencies and establish the Performance Improvement Council, which will assist in the development of performance standards and evaluation methodologies, identify best practices in federal performance management practices and facilitate the exchange of information on performance among agencies. “The performance assessments required by this legislation will bring greater accountability to the management of federal programs, promptly identify pressing policy and program issues and help Congress determine if specific operational, financial or strategic reforms are needed,” said Congressman Moore. “Given our current economic situation and the debt we are facing as a nation, Congressman Cuellar and I are committed to promoting these kinds of common-sense, fiscally-responsible proposals.” H.R. 2142 has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and is currently awaiting consideration. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
05.01.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that, beginning this month, Social Security and Veterans Affairs beneficiaries across Texas will receive one-time economic recovery payments of $250. “These checks will make a meaningful difference in the lives of Texas seniors and veterans, many of whom have been hit especially hard by today’s economic challenges,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Not only will this money help seniors and veterans afford food, medicine, and other basic costs of living, but every dollar spent will help to jump-start job creation and strengthen the Texas economy.” The recovery payments will be issued in the same way that beneficiaries receive their regular Social Security or Veterans Affairs benefits: either by mail, direct deposit, or Direct Express debit card. The funds were authorized in the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act that Congress passed earlier this year. In all, more than 52 million beneficiaries across America will receive the one-time payments. The Social Security Administration (SSA) expects that all SSA beneficiaries who are entitled to the benefit will receive it by late May 2009. The Department of Veterans Affairs will begin distributing their payments in June. No action is required by seniors or veterans to receive the recovery payments. Each individual will receive at most one $250 payment. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.30.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined a broad, bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights on a 357-70 vote. The legislation provides Americans with the rights and information they need to make responsible decisions about their credit cards, and it bans the unfair credit gimmicks and arbitrary fees and rate increases that have hurt millions of families during the economic downturn. “Now more than ever, America’s long-term prosperity depends on building an economy that reflects our belief in fairness, responsibility, and hard work,” Congressman Cuellar said. “That means putting an end to arbitrary and abusive lending practices, and it means protecting the rights of Americans to make informed, responsible decisions about their use of credit.” He added, “The bill recognizes that some credit card companies have always treated their customers fairly, even when this has put those companies at a competitive disadvantage. By strengthening consumer protections industry-wide, the bill levels the playing field and rewards the fair players who have done the right thing all along.” Among other provisions, the bill would: Protect cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases by requiring 45 day notice of all interest rate increases and banning retroactive increases except when a cardholder is more than 30 days past due. Prevents unfair penalties to cardholders who pay on time by ending “double cycle” billing, which charges interest on debt that consumers have already paid on time. Protect cardholders from due-date gimmicks by requiring card companies to mail billing statements 21 calendar days before the due date and extending due dates to the next business day for mailed payments when the due date falls on a day when the card company does not accept or receive mail (such as Sundays and holidays). Prevent companies from using misleading terms by establishing standard definitions of terms such as “fixed rate” and “prime rate.” Empower cardholders to set their own hard, fixed credit limit that cannot be exceeded. Prohibit card companies from imposing excessive fees on cardholders by limiting the number of over-the-limit fees that companies can charge for a single transaction. Require card companies to fairly allocate payments among lower-rate and higher-rate balances by requiring payments made in excess of the minimum to be allocated proportionally among the balances or to the balance with the highest rate. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.29.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar this week joined other members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition to unveil H.R. 2116, the Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act of 2009, a measure that would strengthen Congress’ commitment to fiscal responsibility and accountability by reinstituting statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules. The legislation, which would require both the House and Senate to abide by rules that prohibit growth in deficit spending, has been a cornerstone of efforts to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government. The bill would give full force of law to House and Senate rules implemented in early 2007 that require new, non-emergency discretionary spending to be fully offset by budget cuts or revenue enhancements. Similar budget rules were instrumental in producing the budget surpluses of the late 1990s and early 2000s. Congressman Cuellar is an original cosponsor of the bill, which was introduced by Illinois Congressman and Blue Dog member Rep. Baron Hill. Congressman Cuellar said, “There can be no doubt that the fiscal course America is on is unsustainable. We cannot simply keep spending and spending and charging our bill to future generations. The Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act is a necessary and important step to cut our budget deficits and restore fiscal accountability.” He added, “The next step is to pass a budget that deals honestly with the financial problems America is facing, reins in wasteful spending, and puts us on the path toward balanced budgets.” In his latest radio address, President Obama called on Congress to pass PAYGO legislation like the Fiscal Honesty and Accountability Act, stating that “we need to adhere to the basic principle that new tax or entitlement policies should be paid for.” The fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Currently there are 51 members of the Blue Dog Coalition. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.21.2009	The President today signed into law the Edward Kennedy Serve America Act, H.R. 1388, a major reauthorization and expansion of national volunteer programs. The law launches a new era of volunteerism by increasing the number of volunteers in federal service programs from 75,000 to 250,000, and it establishes new volunteer opportunities for students, retirees, and veterans. Included in the bill is a provision authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar that dramatically expands colonias’ access to volunteers and eliminates the costs imposed on colonias by federal service programs. “History has shown us that, in moments of crisis, Americans always respond by rededicating themselves to their neighbors and their communities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In today’s challenging economy, I helped to write this legislation to support the hundreds of thousands of Americans who are ready, willing, and able to lend a helping hand.” Communities that receive volunteers from AmeriCorps and other federal programs typically contribute up to 50% of the volunteer’s costs, which may include a modest living allowance, employment-related taxes, health care, and so on. Congressman Cuellar’s amendment eliminates the cost-sharing requirement for colonias, defined as “residential areas that may lack basic living necessities, such as water and sewer systems, electricity, paved roads, and safe, sanitary housing.” Existing federal rules offered no such exemption, creating a potentially insurmountable financial burden for these poor, rural communities. “The communities that most need volunteer service are the ones that can least afford to pay for it,” Congressman Cuellar explained. “By recognizing the unique economic challenges facing colonias, my amendment dramatically expands opportunities for volunteers to help colonias meet their basic, essential needs.” Other provisions of the Serve America Act will create a new national Call to Service campaign and encourage Americans to observe September 11th as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. The new law also establishes a Summer of Service program to engage students in service, allowing participants to earn a $500 education award to be used for college costs. In addition, the Serve America Act: Strengthens existing service programs and creates new innovative programs to help improve student achievement and graduation in low-income schools, expand health care access, provide seniors with help living independently, enhance services for veterans, and help build a green, energy-efficient economy; Establishes a Veterans Corp to meet the unique needs of veterans and military families; Expands the focus of the National Civilian Community Corps to infrastructure improvement, environmental and energy conversation, and urban and rural development, in addition to disaster relief; Creates new opportunities for Baby Boomers and seniors to serve and volunteer; Recruits scientists and engineers into service to keep America competitive; and Builds a nationwide community-based infrastructure to leverage investments in service. In 2007, more than 61 million Americans spent over 8 billion hours volunteering, generating $158 billion worth of direct benefits to communities. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
04.15.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today released the following statement on Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano’s establishment of a ‘border czar’ position to oversee federal efforts to secure the southern border: “Secretary Napolitano’s appointment of a new ‘border czar’ is an important and meaningful step forward that reflects a deep understanding of the challenges facing border communities. “I called for a new federal authority to coordinate America’s border strategy during last year’s Homeland Security reauthorization process and again during my recent meeting with Secretary Napolitano in Laredo. The Secretary’s action today is a promising step toward uniting the hundreds of state, federal, and local agencies that operate on the southern border into a single, coordinated effort. “Of course the border czar is only one person, and this job is bigger than anyone can hope to accomplish alone. The need remains for a broader federal agency to coordinate the fight against border violence. “The Southern Border Security Task Force Act, which I introduced into Congress last month, would authorize $10 million to oversee our border strategy. I look forward to holding hearings in the months ahead to move this legislation and continue the work that Secretary Napolitano advanced today.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the U.S. House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight & Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.12.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today voted overwhelmingly to pass the Water Quality Investment Act of 2009, major legislation that invests $18.7 billion over five years in strengthening America’s wastewater infrastructure. Included in the bill were amendments authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar that call for new studies of wastewater discharge into the Rio Grande and of colonias’ water infrastructure needs. “A clean and plentiful water supply is critical to public health, and it is the foundation of economic success for every household, every business, and every farm in Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill, and the amendments I authored, will help build and maintain the water infrastructure that the Texas economy depends on. Just as importantly, the bill will create 480,000 jobs over the next five years, helping to strengthen today’s economy even as it improves tomorrow’s water supply.” The first of Congressman Cuellar’s amendments would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in consultation with the State Department, the Mexican government, the International Boundary Waters Commission, and state and local governments, to study wastewater treatment facilities that discharge into the Rio Grande River and provide recommendations to improve monitoring, information sharing, and cooperation between the U.S. and Mexico. “Families and communities living on the Rio Grande depend on the river for their health and livelihood,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Especially in the midst of an ongoing drought, the quality of the Rio Grande is of critical importance to Texas communities.” Pollution from both sides of the border poses a significant threat to the Rio Grande’s water quality. According to the Congressional Research Service, pollution on the Mexican side mainly consists of raw sewage from urban areas pouring directly into the river, while pollution from the American side includes industrial and agricultural waste products. Congressman Cuellar’s second amendment would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study rural water infrastructure in colonias along the U.S.-Mexico border, specifically examining the colonias’ comprehensive planning needs relating to water and wastewater infrastructure. “This study will provide a blueprint for future Congressional action to provide basic utility service to colonias,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It is the first step toward helping colonias develop into more modern and economically viable communities.” During his time as a state legislator, Congressman Cuellar passed the landmark H.B. 1001 to help stop the growth of colonias in Texas. Congressman Cuellar’s amendments were incorporated into a broader package of amendments offered on the floor by Congressman James Oberstar of Minnesota. The amendment passed without opposition, and the broader legislation later passed by 317-101. The bill now goes to the Senate for further action. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight and Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip and Member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
03.11.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar, a prominent member of the U.S. House Homeland Security Committee, today introduced legislation to prevent southern border violence from spilling over into the United States. Congressman Cuellar’s bill, the Southern Border Security Task Force Act, aims to stem the tide of border violence associated with drug trafficking, gunrunning, kidnapping and illegal alien smuggling. It authorizes funding for a task force to coordinate federal, state, and local agencies in order to better protect border communities. It also further coordinates existing task force to integrate security operations while providing for the optimal use of resources in a fiscally constrained environment. “Border states face daunting challenges in coordinating their security efforts, and the federal government has yet to create a comprehensive, border-wide strategy to address the problem,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Right now, with border violence on the rise, it is more important than ever that we work together to protect border communities.” Coordination between the various federal, state, and local border security agencies is currently informal and has no clear leader. For example, Texas has to coordinate Customs Border Protection, the U.S. Coast Guard, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the FBI, the Texas Department of Public Safety, the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, and local sheriffs’ offices. Other border states face similar logistical challenges. “We’ve learned through long and hard experience the dangers of failing to coordinate security efforts,” Congressman Cuellar noted. “In the months before the September 11th attacks, numerous federal and state agencies had information that could have mitigated or even prevented the attacks, but they had no way to piece together the puzzle. That same kind of patchwork collaboration still hampers our efforts to protect the southern border.” He added, “This is clearly a border safety issue, and just as importantly, it’s a good government issue. When federal, state, and local governments are all reading out of different playbooks, there’s a real risk of duplicative or wasteful spending. Better coordination holds the promise of preventing waste and protecting taxpayer dollars.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Government Oversight and Reform Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip and Member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.25.2009	This evening, Congressman Henry Cuellar joined other members of the U.S. House and Senate in a joint session of Congress to hear remarks by President Barack Obama. Congressman Cuellar released the following statement on the President’s speech: “Tonight, we heard a frank and sober perspective on the many challenges we face as a nation. The President’s remarks struck me as both realistic and hopeful. He acknowledged that we’re in a real bind, but he never forgot that America has been in dark places before, and we’ve always found our way to the other side. “What he did not do is mince words. America is facing tough challenges and difficult choices in the months ahead. Families in Texas are concerned about their jobs, their homes, their savings, and their health care, and the only way we can solve any of these challenges is by confronting them all. “I was glad to hear the President recognize that, even as we meet America’s short-term challenges, we have to keep our eyes on our long-term needs. Our runaway budget deficits are hurting our national economy and undermining our national security. We need to work with the President to cut the deficit and to finally pass a law that blocks new deficit spending." #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Government Oversight and Reform, and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition.
02.13.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today voted in support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which will put 269,000 Texans to work and deliver tens of billions of dollars in tax cuts and infrastructure investments to jumpstart the Texas economy. The legislation has been endorsed as a critical recovery measure by interest groups from across the political spectrum, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the AARP, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the Information Technology Industry Council. Full details of the legislation, including its infrastructure investments and its unprecedented transparency and accountability measures, are in the attached document. Congressman Cuellar released the following statement on the vote: “It took a long time for America’s economy to get into this fix, and we won’t get out of it overnight. This jobs bill isn’t a silver bullet, but it is a bold and decisive step in the right direction. Its impact on Texas families is impossible to overstate and should not be overlooked. “It will put 269,000 Texans to work. It delivers tax relief to 95% of working Texans. And it invests tens of billions of dollars in Texas infrastructure, education, health care, alternative energy, and jobs. “Not only is this bill an historic investment in Texas; it’s also smart economic policy. These funds will create jobs right away, and the infrastructure they build will strengthen our economy for years to come.” “With 20,000 Americans losing their jobs each day – and with Texans losing their homes, their health care, and their savings – sitting idly by was not an option. We needed to move forward urgently with a bill that will create jobs and help turn this economy around. “As we do what must be done in the short term to deal with the economic emergency, we must not lose sight of the future. America’s budget deficits are crippling our economy and undermining our national security. We cannot afford for any of today’s spending to disappear into projects that don’t serve our long-term needs. “In the urgent drive to fix the American economy, haste must not make waste. Once this bill is signed into law, the next step will be aggressive, unprecedented oversight to make sure that every penny is accounted for and spent wisely.” The Senate is expected to vote on the bill later today. ###
02.11.2009	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar and other members of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition met with President Obama at the White House to discuss the need for long-term fiscal reform, including balancing the budget and bringing much-needed accountability to the federal government. Blue Dogs have been longstanding advocates of responsible fiscal policy and have committed to working with the President and leaders in Congress to take meaningful steps to put the country back on a path to fiscal and economic sustainability. “Our conversation focused on reining in America’s trillions of dollars in deficit spending, and we spoke at length about cutting waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal budget,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “As Congress works in the short term to help our economy recover, we can’t afford to lose sight of our long-term economic needs. Deficit spending is crippling our economy and damaging our national security, and it is simply unsustainable. I appreciate the President’s willingness to build a partnership with the Blue Dogs to bring our nation’s budget under control, and I look forward to continuing to work with him in the years ahead.” The following are quotes from other members of the Blue Dog Coalition, released immediately after yesterday’s meeting: “We appreciated the opportunity to talk with the President today about the Blue Dogs’ long-term fiscal priorities,” said Rep. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD), Blue Dog Co-Chair for Administration. “I’m optimistic that the Blue Dogs will continue to work with the President in a strong partnership to ensure that the federal government has the kind of long-term budget enforcement tools that are necessary to reduce our national debt and stabilize our economy in the long run.” “The primary focus of our meeting with President Obama today was the importance of long term fiscal reform,” said Rep. Charlie Melancon (D-LA), Blue Dog Co-Chair for Communications. “After eight years of reckless fiscal policies and out-of-control deficit spending by the Bush Administration, we have found ourselves buried under a mountain of debt that has left our country vulnerable on a number of levels. It is encouraging to have a President who is committed to developing a realistic plan to restore the fiscal health of the country, and the Blue Dogs look forward to being partners with President Obama in his efforts.” “I regard President Obama’s willingness to meet with the Blue Dogs as a positive sign that he is truly on board with our goal to address our nation’s mounting debt,” said Rep. Baron Hill (D-IN), Blue Dog Co-Chair for Policy. “Yes, we need to address our immediate economic problems, but we must also look long term and return to budgeting principles, such as statutory PAYGO, that led to surpluses in the 1990s.” “I am encouraged by today’s meeting and the Blue Dogs look forward to working closely with President Obama to return our nation to a path of fiscal responsibility,” said Rep. Heath Shuler (D-NC), Blue Dog Whip. “As a Freshman, I know one of the reasons I’m standing here is because I pledged to my district to advocate fiscal responsibility and common sense spending,” said Rep. Frank Kratovil (D-MD), a newly elected member of the Blue Dog Coalition. “We now have an obligation to work with the White House and follow through on that promise by restoring fiscal discipline. Our party’s ability to succeed in districts like mine rests on our credibility on this critical issue and our ability protect constituents from another economic crisis down the road.” “After eight years of out-of-control deficit spending by the previous Administration, we now have a President who is serious about addressing our long-term fiscal challenges,” said Rep. Allen Boyd (D-FL). “President Obama will be holding a Fiscal Summit in the coming weeks, and we applaud his efforts to discuss solutions and bring this important issue to the national stage. The Blue Dogs are eager to work with President Obama and his Administration to chart a path to fiscal responsibility and economic growth.” "The previous administration inherited record budget surpluses and turned them into record deficits, doubling the national debt our children will have to pay back with interest," said Rep. John Tanner (D-TN), a founding member of the Blue Dog Coalition. "The Blue Dogs are ready to work with the new administration to turn our long-term budget around so that our country has to depend less on borrowed money from other countries." “We are facing some of the most difficult economic times this country has seen,” said Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA). “As a Blue Dog Democrat, I and others feel it is absolutely imperative that we move now to take care of the long-term financial health of the federal government. I am grateful that we had an opportunity to share our goals with President Obama.” The fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 with the goal of representing the center of the House of Representatives and appealing to the mainstream values of the American public. The Blue Dogs are dedicated to a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. For more information, visit the Blue Dog website at http://www.house.gov/ross/BlueDogs/. ###
02.10.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that students in the Texas 28th Congressional District will have the opportunity to participate in the 2009 Congressional Arts Contest, which offers high school artists the opportunity to achieve national recognition and display their artwork in the U.S. Capitol building. Every year since 1982, the Congressional Art Competition has showcased exceptional student art from each of the 435 Congressional districts. One work of art selected by each Member of Congress is displayed in a gallery in the Cannon Tunnel, the passage that connects the U.S. Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building. The gallery is a prominent attraction on Capitol tours, so the selected artwork will achieve national exposure. Runners-up will be displayed in Congressman Cuellar’s offices in Laredo, San Antonio, and McAllen. Congressman Cuellar said, "Each year, I take great pride in recognizing the creativity and unique talents of students throughout South Texas. This is a tremendous opportunity for young Texas artists to have their work displayed in galleries at the U.S. Capitol and here at home.” The competition is open to all high school students who attend school in the Texas 28th Congressional District. Artwork must be submitted by April 3, 2009 and must be two-dimensional and no larger than 30 inches by 30 inches. Artwork categories include: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers Collage: must be two dimensional Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, etc. Computer generated art Photography The winning artwork for the Texas 28th Congressional District will be chosen by a panel of art experts appointed by Congressman Cuellar’s office. The winner will be announced in an official press release and invited to attend a ribbon cutting ceremony in Washington, D.C.
02.04.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined an overwhelming, bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives to send the bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2009 to President Obama’s desk. Congressman Cuellar was an original cosponsor of the bill, which the U.S. House previously passed in slightly different form last month. The legislation will renew the CHIP program through fiscal year 2013. It will protect the seven million children currently covered by CHIP from losing access to health care, and it will extend coverage to an additional four million low-income children – including 490,000 in Texas – who are eligible for CHIP but not yet enrolled. CHIP is especially crucial in Texas, where 21.4% of all children have no health insurance – the worst rate of coverage in America today. “Growing up as the son of migrant parents, I was among the millions of American children with no health insurance,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I got lucky. Even without health insurance, I grew up into a healthy adult. But I could just as easily have ended up going untreated for a chronic disease or serious injury. It is unacceptable that 1.4 million Texas kids continue to bear that risk today.” The State Children’s Health Insurance Program was launched in 1997 through a bipartisan effort by the Republican Congress and the Democratic White House. It established a federal-state partnership to provide health coverage to children from working families that earned too much to qualify for traditional Medicaid but too little to afford private health insurance. In Texas, SCHIP provides benefits to families with household earnings between 100% and 200% of the federal poverty line, or between $22,050 and $44,100 for a family of four in 2009. Participating families pay enrollment fees and co-pays for coverage at costs that vary based on their income level. As a legislator who knows firsthand the struggles of uninsured families, Congressman Cuellar has long been a pioneer on issues of children’s health insurance. While serving in the Texas State House of Representatives, he authored legislation to establish Texas’ first CHIP pilot program, which was launched at Farias Elementary School in Laredo. The program proved so successful that it served as the basis for Texas’ statewide CHIP program, which Congressman Cuellar cosponsored as a state legislator. Cuellar added, “In these difficult economic times, as millions of Texas families struggle with job losses and pay cuts, CHIP is more important than ever. For families living on the financial edge, CHIP is a critical source of care, support, and peace of mind.” ###
02.04.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined an overwhelming, bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of delaying the digital television (DTV) transition. The new date for DTV to take effect is June 12, instead of the widely-promoted February 17. The measure also extends to July 31 the deadline for households to obtain $40 coupons to purchase a converter box, while at the same time allowing households holding expired coupons to apply for new ones. “Millions of families in the United States – including many in the 28th Congressional District – either have not applied for their coupons or are not fully educated about the transition,” Congressman Cuellar said. “In the 28th District, 6,210 households are on the waiting list for a converter coupon – more than in 94% of all congressional districts nationwide.” Congressman Cuellar added, “This delay will allow us to tie up all the lose ends. We need to make sure that the transition is a win-win situation for all -- including South Texas families and television broadcasters.” The bill also allows television stations to terminate their analog broadcasting and make the DTV transition before June 12, but does not require them to do so until the new date. Another key provision of the bill allows public safety entities to use vacated DTV spectrum before the new transition date, subject to existing FCC rules. President Barack Obama is expected to sign the bill, which has already passed the Senate. ###
01.29.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that Texas colleges and universities stand to gain an estimated $408,415,000 under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which the U.S. House of Representatives passed yesterday on a 244-188 vote. The funding estimate appeared in a recent report by the Congressional Research Service (CRS), the nonpartisan research arm of Congress. The funding represents Texas’ share of $6 billion in 2009 funding for state higher education agencies (SEAs) to use for school modernization, renovation, and repair. SEAs may make subgrants to public and private not-for-profit postsecondary schools to modernize, renovate, or repair facilities that are primarily used for instruction, research, or student housing. Congressman Cuellar said, “Not only is this an historic investment in Texas students – it’s also smart economic policy. These funds will create jobs right away, and the infrastructure they build will improve Texas education and strengthen our economy for years to come.” The recovery legislation includes several further momentous investments in Texas students: Expands the “Hope Credit” for college tuition costs. The bill temporarily expands the maximum federal “Hope Credit” from $1,800 to $2,500 and makes it partially refundable, allowing the credit to reach an additional 346,000 Texans. Increases the maximum Pell Grant by $500. The increase is expected to invest $15.6 billion in higher education nationwide over the next two years, benefiting 7 million students nationwide. Adds $490 million to the College Work-Study Program. The new funding will offer an additional 200,000 students nationwide the opportunity to afford a higher education through their own hard work. Raises the limit on unsubsidized Stafford loans by $2,000, helping students living on the financial edge to afford a college degree. As the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities has stated, “Together these proposals mean that low-income students and families on the brink of stopping or dropping out of their higher education plans can stay in, and that unemployed workers can choose retraining for a new job.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. ###
01.28.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today voted in support of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which will create millions of jobs and jumpstart the economic recovery. Congressman Cuellar released the following statement on the vote: “We’re facing a once-in-a-lifetime crisis that demands a once-in-a-lifetime response. Economists across the political spectrum agree that bold and decisive action is the only path that offers a real chance at economic recovery. “Given the need for hundreds of billions in economic life support, my job is to help make sure that Texas receives our fair share so that we can do our part to rebuild the economy. “Today’s bill invests $3 billion in Texas infrastructure: shovel-ready projects that will create jobs today and serve our communities for decades. It includes $7.3 billion for Texas schools: money that will strengthen the economy immediately and improve our children’s lives for a generation. It invests $1.15 billion in land ports of entry, creating jobs in Texas and harnessing the power of trade to jumpstart our economy. And it will cut taxes for 95% of working Texans. “As we do what must be done in the short term to deal with the economic emergency, we must not lose sight of the long term. America’s budget deficits are crippling our economy and undermining our national security, and we cannot afford for any of today’s spending to disappear into waste or fraud. “Once these funds are passed into law, the next step will be aggressive, unprecedented oversight to make sure that every penny is accounted for and spent wisely.” Further information on the bill’s appropriations provisions is available at http://appropriations.house.gov/pdf/PressSummary01-21-09.pdf. Details of the tax relief provisions are online at http://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/110/taxsum.pdf. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. ###
01.21.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program (DHS AFG) has awarded the Laredo Fire Department more than $400,000 for the purchase of safety and firefighting equipment. Specifically, the grant will be used to purchase breathing apparatuses and wild land firefighting gear that will be used during brush fires. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I know firsthand that we have a duty to ensure that our first responders have the staff and resources they need to fight fires safely and effectively. I congratulate Mayor Raul Salinas, Members of the City Council, and Fire Chief Steve Landin for working hard to obtain these federal dollars,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is a component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.75 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information on grants, please call the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. A formal announcement of the grant is forthcoming. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. ###
01.21.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that the Pharr Fire Department will grow by nine firefighters thanks to a grant awarded by the Department of Homeland Security’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response program (DHS SAFER). Specifically, the $975,000 awarded will increase the number of firefighters from 48 to 57. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I know firsthand that we have a duty to ensure that our first responders have the staff and resources they need to fight fires safely and effectively. I congratulate Pharr Mayor Leopoldo “Polo” Palacios, Members of the City Commissioners, and Fire Chief Jaime Guzman in working hard to obtain these federal dollars,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The addition of these new firefighters will help safeguard residents in the City of Pharr.” The DHS SAFER program is a funding initiative designed to strengthen the nation’s ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards and improve the country’s overall level of preparedness. For more information on grants, please the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip and member of the Blue Dog Coalition. ###
01.19.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced his appointment to two influential subcommittees of the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture in the 111th Congress. Congressman Cuellar will continue to serve on the Subcommittee on Specialty Crops, Rural Development, and Foreign Agriculture Programs, as he has done since 2007. The subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes peanuts, sugar, and tobacco; marketing orders relating to these commodities; biotechnology; rural development; farm security and family farming matters; foreign agricultural assistance; and trade promotion programs. Congressman Cuellar said, “Rural development funding is critical for Texas, especially in these challenging economic times. Serving on the Specialty Crops, Rural Development, and Foreign Agriculture Programs Subcommittee has offered an extraordinary opportunity to advocate for rural Texans, and I look forward to continuing that effort for the next two years.” Congressman Cuellar has also been appointed to one new subcommittee: the Subcommittee on Development Operations, Oversight, Nutrition, and Forestry, whose jurisdiction includes U.S. Department of Agriculture oversight, review and analysis; special investigations; food stamps; nutrition and consumer programs; forestry in general; and forest reserves other than those created from the public domain. “School lunches are the most reliable, nutritious meal that many Texas kids eat in a day,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I look forward to improving school nutrition to help more students grow up healthy, as well as to strengthening food banks for Texans who are struggling in today’s economy.” In addition to his work on the U.S. House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Cuellar serves on the powerful U.S. House Homeland Security Committee, where he chairs the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. ###
01.15.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives will soon vote on the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which will invest $825 billion dollars in the American economy to create millions of jobs and jumpstart the economic recovery. A draft of the legislation unveiled today by the U.S. House Appropriations Committee includes $550 billion in targeted spending and $275 billion in economic recovery tax cuts. Among the proposed funds are tens of billions of dollars for Texas. “What incredible news for South Texas,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “In these dark economic times, the prospect of such significant investments in border communities is tremendously encouraging.” Congressman José E. Serrano (D-NY), who chairs the powerful Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and who played a central role in drafting the legislation, praised Congressman Cuellar’s support for border investment. "Congressman Cuellar's voice has been key to ensuring that the economic recovery package invests in land ports, border levees, rural broadband, and other projects to help southern Texas,” Congressman Serrano said. “He came to me various times to make sure that we included these projects in the stimulus package. His efforts are making a real difference for border communities struggling in today's turbulent economy." Among the legislation’s provisions that would directly benefit South Texas: Border Ports of Entry: $1.15 billion to construct GSA and Customs and Border Patrol land ports of entry to improve border security, make trade and travel easier, and reduce wait times, and to procure non-intrusive inspection technology at sea ports of entry. International Boundary and Water Commission: $224 million to repair flood control systems along the international segment of the Rio Grande damaged by Hurricane Katrina and other serious storms. Rural Water and Waste Disposal: $1.5 billion to support $3.8 billion in grants and loans to help communities fund drinking water and wastewater treatment systems. In 2008, there were $2.4 billion in requests for water and waste loans, and $990 million for water and waste grants went unfunded. Wireless and Broadband Grants: $6 billion for broadband and wireless services in underserved areas to strengthen the economy and provide business and job opportunities in every section of America with benefits to e-commerce, education, and health care. For every dollar invested in broadband, the economy sees a ten-fold return on that investment. Rural Community Facilities: $200 million to support $1.2 billion in grants and loans to rural areas for critical community facilities, such as for health care, education, fire and rescue, day care, community centers, and libraries. There are over $1.2 billion in applications pending. Health Information Technology: $20 billion to jumpstart efforts to computerize health records to cut costs and reduce medical errors. DTV Conversion Coupons: $650 million to continue the coupon program to enable American households to convert from analog television transmission to digital transmission. These funds are especially crucial to border communities, where a disproportionate number of residents are not yet prepared for the DTV transition. School Construction: $20 billion, including $14 billion for K-12 and $6 billion for higher education, for renovation and modernization, including technology upgrades and energy efficiency improvements. Also includes $1 billion for 21st century classrooms, including computer and science labs and teacher technology training. Child Care Development Block Grant: $2 billion to provide child care services for an additional 300,000 children in low-income families while their parents go to work. Today only one out of seven eligible children receives care. Training and Employment Services: $4 billion for job training including formula grants for adult, dislocated workers, and youth services (including $1.2 billion to create up to one million summer jobs for youths). Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
01.14.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today joined an overwhelming, bipartisan majority of the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2009. Congressman Cuellar also coauthored the bill. The legislation, which is based on two bills that President Bush vetoed during the last Congress, will renew the CHIP program through fiscal year 2013. It will protect the seven million children currently covered by CHIP from losing access to health care, and it will extend coverage to an additional four million low-income children who are eligible for CHIP but not yet enrolled. CHIP is especially crucial in Texas, where 21.4% of all children have no health insurance – the worst rate of coverage in America today. “Growing up as the son of migrant parents, I was among the millions of American children who had no health insurance,” Congressman Cuellar said. “When someone in our family got sick, seeing a doctor simply wasn’t an option.” He added, “I got lucky. Even without health insurance, I grew up into a healthy adult. But I could just as easily have ended up going untreated for a chronic disease or serious injury, and a lifetime of opportunities would have evaporated. It is unacceptable that 1.4 million Texas kids continue to bear that risk today.” The State Children’s Health Insurance Program was launched in 1997 through a bipartisan effort by the Republican Congress and the Democratic White House. It established a federal-state partnership to provide health coverage to children from working families that earned too much to qualify for traditional Medicaid but too little to afford private health insurance. In Texas, SCHIP provides benefits to families with household earnings between 100% and 200% of the federal poverty line, or between $21,200 and $42,200 in 2008. Participating families pay enrollment fees and co-pays for coverage at costs that vary based on their income level. As a legislator who knows firsthand the struggles of uninsured families, Congressman Cuellar has long been a pioneer on issues of children’s health insurance. While serving in the Texas State House of Representatives, he coauthored legislation to establish Texas’ first CHIP pilot program, which was launched at Farias Elementary School in Laredo. The program proved so successful that it served as the basis for Texas’ statewide CHIP program. Cuellar added, “In these difficult economic times, as millions of Texas families struggle with job losses and pay cuts, CHIP is more important than ever. For families living on the financial edge, CHIP is a critical source of care, support, and peace of mind.” ###
01.08.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar has been named to the powerful Blue Dog Coalition, a group of fiscally conservative Democrats that is widely considered the most influential moderate voice on Capitol Hill. The Coalition voted to add Congressman Cuellar to their 51-member roster for the 111th Congress. He is currently the only Texan to serve in the Blue Dogs. “To my mind, the Blue Dogs are the taxpayers’ voice in Congress,” Congressman Cuellar said. “Texans entrust Washington with tens of billions of their tax dollars each year, and the Blue Dogs’ sole purpose is to ensure that Washington lives up to that trust. They have a long record of cutting wasteful spending and opposing runaway deficits, and I am tremendously honored to join their coalition.” Congressman Charlie Melancon (Louisiana Third District), co-chair of the Blue Dog Coalition, said, “Texas taxpayers have no greater friend in Washington than Henry Cuellar. The Blue Dogs are pleased and honored to count him as our newest member.” The Blue Dog Coalition was founded in the 1994 as a policy-oriented group devoted to reining in wasteful spending and promoting fiscal accountability. The "Blue Dog" moniker was embraced by Coalition members because their moderate-to-conservative views had been, in the words of one founding member, "choked blue" by out-of-control fiscal policies. By voting as a unified bloc against reckless spending, the Blue Dogs have gained enormous leverage in the federal appropriations process. Their voice was critical to the U.S. House’s decision in early 2007 to implement “pay as you go” budget rules, which prohibited Congress from increasing the federal budget deficit except during a national emergency. The Blue Dogs’ priorities in the new Congress include giving “pay as you go” rules the full force of law, as well as ensuring that the upcoming economic stimulus package is both carefully targeted and fiscally responsible. Congressman Cuellar added, “As Congress acts to deal with today’s financial crisis in the short term, we can’t afford to lose sight of the long term. America’s national debt is simply unsustainable. It’s hurting middle-class families, and it’s undermining our economy.” ###
01.06.2009	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (Texas 28th District) was sworn into his third two-year term in the United States Congress. "These are tremendously challenging times for Texans," Congressman Cuellar said. "Most folks are working harder than ever, but they're finding it tougher and tougher to make ends meet. In times like these, it's more important than ever that Texas has a strong voice in our nation's capital. It is a humbling honor and privilege to serve as that voice, and I look forward to setting to work." Congressman Cuellar was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2004. He previously served as Texas Secretary of State and for 14 years in the Texas House of Representatives. In his time in Washington, Congressman Cuellar has earned a reputation as a strong, independent voice who reaches across party lines to achieve results for Texas. He has secured tens of millions of dollars in appropriations for critical projects at home, including funds to establish the Border Joint Operation Emergency Training Center at Texas A&M International University, which supports training for first responders at all levels of government. Congressman Cuellar has also authored legislation to establish a Border Violence Task Force to coordinate intergovernmental efforts to combat border crime, and he has helped Texans cope with the rising cost of college by simplifying the student loan application process and establishing a "one-stop shop" for financial aid research. Congressman Cuellar has so far been appointed to two committees in the 111th Congress: The U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security was created in 2002 in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The Committee oversees the Department of Homeland Security and develops legislation to strengthen the security of the United States. In the 111th Congress, Congressman Cuellar will continue to chair the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, which he has led since 2007. The U.S. House Committee on Agriculture oversees the Department of Agriculture and has broad jurisdiction over all agriculture-related issues, including the Farm Bill and legislation related to biofuels and rural development. The Speaker of the House led today's traditional swearing-in ceremony on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Congressman Cuellar recited the oath that every Member of Congress has sworn since 1884: "I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office on which I am about to enter: So help me God." After his swearing-in, Congressman Cuellar noted, "You don't have to look very hard in South Texas to find families who are hurting. They're worried about their jobs, their retirement savings, their kids' college costs. They're feeling frustrated, and they have a right to expect Washington to act quickly." He added, "Helping families secure their financial futures is the first and most important duty of the 111th Congress. That means passing a bold and carefully directed stimulus package, it means helping working families to afford health care for their kids, and it means helping students who work hard and study hard to afford a college education." Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 111th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
01.05.2009	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded a $239,152 in Housing Choice Voucher - Family Self-Sufficiency grants to south Texas housing authorities. The grants included $97,853 for the San Antonio Housing Authority, $59,600 for the Pharr Housing Authority, $44,608 for the Laredo Housing Authority, and $37,091 for the Hidalgo County Housing Authority. Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) is a HUD program that encourages communities to develop local strategies to help voucher families obtain employment that will lead to economic independence and self-sufficiency. Public housing agencies work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive program that gives participating FSS family members the skills and experience to enable them to obtain employment that pays a living wage. Among the services that FSS provides are child care, transportation, education, job training and employment counseling, substance/alcohol abuse treatment or counseling, household skill training, and homeownership counseling. "Congratulations to the San Antonio Housing Authority on this well-deserved grant," said Congressman Cuellar. "In these tough economic times, these funds will help Texas families find good jobs and stay in their homes." ###
12.31.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced a $56,160 federal grant to the Seguin Fire Department. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration, awarded the funds under the Fiscal Year 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. "Congratulations to the Seguin Fire Department on this hard-earned grant," said Congressman Cuellar. "These funds will help Seguin firefighters to protect the public more effectively and in greater safety than ever before." Seguin Fire Chief Roger Mycue said that the funds will be used to replace a dozen aging breathing apparatuses used to breathe safely while fighting fires. "We're bringing us into compliance with the federal guidelines and state guidelines," Fire Chief Mycue said. "This will greatly enhance the safety of our firefighters." The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides one-year grants directly to fire departments to strengthen emergency preparedness and improve firefighting services. ###
11.24.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar today was on hand to present more than 2,200 books to students at Cuellar Elementary School as part of the school's participation in the Reading Is Fundamental (RIF) program. RIF, which is mostly underwritten by the U.S. Department of Education, is aimed at preparing and motivating children to read by awarding free books and literary resources to students and families who need them the most. Through the efforts of Congressman Cuellar and other federal representatives from the Rio Grande Valley, the South Texas Literacy Coalition was formed and helped expand literary resources in South Texas and Region One, ESC. Currently, there are 43 schools in Region One participating in the program, two of those being in Laredo -- Cuellar and Newman Elementary Schools. RIF serves 130,000 children in Region One, with approximately 1,500 of those students coming from both schools in Laredo. "Education always has been one of my top priorities and I will continue doing everything I can to ensure that our students have all the necessary tools they need to succeed," said Congressman Cuellar. "It is through programs like RIF that a lot of our students receive opportunities they would normally not have." It is estimated that more than 420,000 books will be distributed this year to schools participating in Region One RIF's program, which includes school districts from Laredo to Brownsville in cities near and along the Rio Grande River. Nationwide, RIF provides 14 million new books to 4.5 million children each year. All RIF programs combine three essential elements to foster literacy: reading motivation, family and community involvement, and the excitement of children choosing their books to keep. RIF's accomplishments and successes are also credited to the generosity of corporations, foundations, and community organizations. For more information or participate in RIF, please call Diana Padilla, Senior Support Program Coordinator for South Texas, Region One, ESC, at 956-984-6073. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
11.21.2008	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the U.S. Department of Education has launched a new website aimed at helping people with limited English. The website is free and located at www.usalearns.org. “I congratulate the Department of Education for taking the initiative and for looking out after people and helping them with their literacy skills,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Being fluent in English is something that benefits everyone, from being better parents, to being a better employer and employee, to becoming active members of the community. Bilingual individuals are highly sought all over.” The website offers the following features: • An easily accessible Internet learning tool; • Simple directions; • Free instructional materials developed to teach basic English skills and help adults improve their English proficiency; and • Learning modules that can be used outside a traditional classroom The site provides users the option to use directions in English or Spanish and select their level a beginner or intermediate level. Twenty units are offered in the beginner course, including numbers, the calendar, places to go, families, schools, clothes, money, and shopping. The challenges increase in the intermediate course, which is aimed at furthering the user’s existing English reading and writing skills. According to data provided by the 2003 National Assessment of Adult Literacy, it is estimated that as many all 11 million adults in the United States are not literate in English, and that approximately only one million of these individuals are served by local and state programs.
11.07.2008	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced $5,103,626 in funding for the Webb County Head Start program to help local children become better prepared to succeed in school. Specifically, the funds will be used to provide educational services to the 1,150 economically disadvantaged children and their parents who participate in the Head Start Program in Webb County. “Education has always been one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Head Start Program offers important services to help disadvantaged children learn and develop socially, and these services are critical to helping our local children succeed.” “On behalf of the children, families, and staff of Webb County Head Start, I thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for being a leading voice of the Head Start community,” said Aliza Oliveros, the Webb County Head Start Program Director. “The children of Webb County Head Start are fortunate to be afforded a developmentally appropriate learning environment and varied experiences which will help to develop each child socially, intellectually, physically, and emotionally.” The Webb County Head Start program is a comprehensive child development and early education program for low-income children, ages three to five years old, and their families. In addition to providing educational services to children and their parents, Webb County Head Start provides health, dental and nutritional services, social services, mental health services, services for children with disabilities, family and community strengthening, and opportunities for parent involvement.
10.28.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced $5,003,353 today for the City of Laredo from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The funding comes in four parts: $3,589,958 for Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to provide housing and to expand economic opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income citizens. $1,248,285 for HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) to build, buy and rehabilitate affordable housing for assistance to low-income citizens. $159,922 Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) to provide homeless persons with basic shelter and essential supportive services, including assisting with the operational costs of shelter facilities. $5,188 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) to increase homeownership rates, especially among lower income and minority households, and to revitalize and stabilize communities. “These HUD entitlement funds will help to improve the quality of life, especially for those persons of low to moderate income here in Laredo,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “From assistance for housing rehabilitation, providing funding for non-profit service providers who service the homeless, to building infrastructure throughout the community, such as parks, sidewalks, police substations, or even buying fire equipment, these monies are always greatly needed, and much appreciated here in Laredo,” he concluded. “As our city grows, it is imperative that we continue to invest in our infrastructure to improve communities, help homeowners and provide shelter for those who need assistance,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I congratulate Mayor Salinas and those who have worked hard to bring these important funds to Laredo, and I look forward to working together in the future.”
10.24.2008	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced $1,165,000 in funding to the National Guard Armory in Laredo for structural improvements to the facility. Specifically, the funds will provide for needed renovations to fencing around the facility to grant the armory more outdoor space for training exercises. The funding will also provide for the construction of a canopy and adequate lighting to protect National Guard soldiers and airmen during training in inclement weather and at night. “This money will be very helpful,” said Sergeant Luis Solis of the National Guard Armory. “Our current fence doesn’t cover our entire lot, and we are limited to training during specific hours because temperatures reach 115 degrees. We are very thankful to Congressman Cuellar for his help.” “It is my privilege to help secure these important funds for the brave men and women of the National Guard,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This money will help expand the number of hours our Guardsmen can train at night and during extreme heat, to ensure their safety and provide greater flexibility.” The funding for improvements to the National Guard Armory was included in the military construction portion of the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009. The bill was signed into law on September 30, 2008.
10.21.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar was honored Monday by the National Guard Association of the United States with the Charles Dick Medal of Merit Award. The award, given to only 32 recipients nation-wide, was presented by Lt Gen Charles G. Rodriguez, Adjutant General for the State of Texas. The Charles Dick Medal of Merit was established in 1988 to recognize the contributions to the National Guard by elected representatives to legislative bodies at the state and federal levels. The award is presented to legislators who distinguish themselves over an extended period time in support to the National Guard. “On behalf of the soldiers and airmen of the Texas National Guard, I am honored to work with Congressman Cuellar in acquiring the resources necessary to help complete our missions domestically and overseas,” Lieutenant General Rodriguez said. “It is my privilege to work with the brave men and women of the National Guard,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am honored to receive this award, and I look forward to continuing our efforts to ensure that the Texas National Guard is equipped for their operations at home and abroad.” The Medal is named in honor of Maj Gen Charles Dick, president of the National Guard Association from 1902 to 1909, a major general in the Ohio National Guard, a Congressman and later a Senator. As a Senator, he was responsible for the passage of the Dick Acts of 1903 and 1908 that established the modern National Guard.
10.20.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar was honored Saturday by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors with the Friend of the Farm Bureau Award. The award, given at the end of each Congress, is based on voting records on priority issues established by the American Farm Bureau Federation Board of Directors, the number of bills that a member has sponsored and co-sponsored, the member’s leadership on priority issues, and how accessible and responsive the member is to Farm Bureau members and leaders. “Congressman Cuellar was instrumental in working with leaders to secure important provisions in the 2008 Farm Bill,” said Raymond Meyers, a Texas Farm Bureau State Director. “He is a great friend to the Farm Bureau and a great friend to agriculture.” “Mr. Cuellar served as one of four Congressmen from Texas on the House Agriculture Committee,” said Kenneth Dierschke, President of the Texas Farm Bureau. “His service is invaluable to the farmers and ranchers across the state of Texas.” “I am honored to work with the Farm Bureau on behalf of farmers and ranchers in my district,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I value my relationship with the Farm Bureau and look forward to continuing to seek the input of Farm Bureau representatives and other agricultural groups.” Congressman Cuellar has served on the House Agriculture Committee for two terms and was active in obtaining language in the 2008 Farm Bill to eradicate the cattle fever tick problem that affects ranchers in Central and South Texas. He was also instrumental in securing language to effectively target areas most in need of telemedicine to increase access healthcare in rural communities.
09.16.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar voted today in favor of the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, a sweeping measure to increase American energy independence through the growth of renewable energy, increased energy efficiency, conservation of current resources, and environmentally-sensitive domestic drilling. If made law, the bill would also create more than 100,000 American jobs and provide tax incentives to create other new jobs in green energy production. The bill passed the House by vote of XXX to XX. “This bill addresses the energy concerns of Americans across the country,” Congressman Cuellar said, “And I support a comprehensive energy plan that includes domestic drilling in an environmentally sound way. With a broad and inclusive plan that utilizes domestic resources and invests in alternative energy, we can begin to alleviate today’s oil prices and prepare for efficiency, conservation and energy independence in the future.” Expands Domestic Energy Supply, Environmentally-Sensitive Domestic Drilling In a multilateral approach, H.R. 6899 would permit domestic drilling between 50 and 100 miles offshore and increase domestic oil production across America and in Alaska. As an environmental precaution, national marine monuments and sanctuaries would be permanently withdrawn from oil and gas leasing. In order to proceed with drilling between 50 and 100 miles offshore, states would have to “opt-in” by enacting laws to authorize drilling off their coastlines. Drilling in federal waters more than 100 miles offshore would be permitted without a state choosing to opt-in. Inland, the bill would require the U.S. Department of the Interior to conduct annual lease sales in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPR-A) to speed development and production and would ban exports of Alaskan oil outside the United States. Additionally, the measure calls for the completion of the oil pipeline infrastructure into the NPR-A and the completion of the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline, efforts that could create up to 100,000 jobs. Congressman Cuellar’s Provisions Ensure Environmental Responsibility in Offshore Drilling Congressman Cuellar added provisions to the bill to ensure that drilling would be carried out in a manner that provides for protection of the coastal, marine and human environments of state coastal zones and Outer Continental Shelf. All federal regulations applicable to offshore drilling would be reviewed to ensure environmentally sound oil and gas operations. Invests in Renewable Energy, Creates American Jobs The legislation would also establish a market-based national renewable electricity standard by requiring electric utilities to use renewable energy or to purchase renewable utility credits for 15 percent of the electricity they distribute. The measure is expected to save American consumers between $13 - $18 billion cumulatively by the time utilities will be required to meet the standard in 2020. Currently, more than half of the 50 states have enacted a renewable energy standard. Additionally, the bill incorporates $18 billion in tax cuts and credits to create green jobs and support American energy independence. It includes incentives for plug-in hybrid vehicles, solar and wind production, energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. Moreover, the bill creates a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency and improve energy conservation. The legislation also promotes natural gas and E85 infrastructure with incentives for installing natural gas and alternative fuel pumps in service stations and in homes. E85 is composed of 85 percent ethyl alcohol (ethanol) and just 15 percent petroleum and is designed for use in flexible fuel vehicles. More than 6.8 million light-duty flexible fuel vehicles are currently operated in the United States by private citizens, businesses and government. Increases Conservation and Energy Efficiency In an effort to increase conservation of current resources, H.R. 6899 strengthens national energy efficiency codes for buildings by calling upon the U.S. Department of Energy and states to update standards for new commercial and residential buildings. The measure mandates a 30 percent improvement in minimum building energy standards by 2010 and a 50 percent improvement by 2020. The building sector alone accounts for approximately 48% of all energy consumed in the United States, and increased building standards could save consumers more than $210 billion by 2030. Furthermore, the bill provides incentives to lenders and financial institutions, including the Federal Housing Administration, to provide lower interest loans to consumers who build, buy or remodel their homes to improve their energy efficiency. The average American consumer spends 9.7% of their annual income on energy, and low-income households spend more than 16%. The bill also reduces transit fares for commuter rail and buses and expands service through $1.7 billion in grants to transit agencies for the next two years. These funds would be available to ease the operating costs of public transportation in both rural and urban areas. Fiscal Responsibility H.R. 6899 is fully compliant with PAYGO, a pay-as-you-go budgetary restriction enacted by Congress that requires all increases in direct spending or decreases in revenue to be offset by other spending decreases or revenue increases. This legislation will not affect the national deficit.
09.09.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today a temporary addition to his Washington, D.C. staff from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Sandi Boughton, a legislative fellow with more than 34 years experience working with USDA Rural Development, joins Congressman Cuellar’s staff for a six-month term to assist with legislative issues in Washington and rural development initiatives in the district. “I am excited to announce Sandi as an addition to our office,” Congressman Cuellar said. “She brings invaluable expertise in rural development, both for the legislative session and for our rural communities in the district. I look forward to bringing Sandi to the district in November to share her knowledge and experience with our rural communities.” Ms. Boughton comes to the congressional office as the Director of Water Programs for the USDA Rural Utilities Service. Her expertise is in community development, planning and financing, which includes helping rural communities prioritize their development needs. She has worked closely in prior roles in Washington State with Native American tribes on community facilities and rural infrastructure development, including water, waste, and solid waste facilities and telecommunications, telemedicine and distance learning programs. Throughout her work in rural development, Ms. Boughton has emphasized partnerships in and between local and federal entities and the leveraging of private resources to maximize funding packages for projects. In November, Congressman Cuellar plans to travel with Ms. Boughton to the district to conduct rural town hall meetings, discuss USDA Rural Development initiatives and share information on available resources from USDA and other sources.
09.08.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today $250,000 to study the feasibility of constructing a low water weir upstream from the World Trade Bridge on the Rio Grande River. The funds for the study were made available by language Congressman Cuellar added to the 2008 Omnibus Bill. Once in operation, the weir, or low level dam, will provide water storage, increase water conservation, generate hydroelectric power and provide recreation for local residents. Additionally, instead of constructing a physical barrier, the weir will provide a natural boundary between the United States and Mexico. “This is potentially a multi-million dollar investment for our community,” Congressman Cuellar said, “By addressing needs of energy, environment and border security, I am proud to announce these important funds for a more prosperous and secure community.” The 1944 Water Treaty between the United States and Mexico allows for the construction of a third dam on the Rio Grande River. This third dam was identified to be constructed between the Falcon and Amistad Dams. Congressman Cuellar was joined by Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas and Commissioner Carlos Marin of the International Boundary Water Commission.
09.04.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar joined the City of Laredo and U.S. Customs and Border Protection today to announce a comprehensive plan to remove and control Carrizo cane along the Rio Grande River near Laredo. Eradication of the cane will enhance Border Patrol efforts by improving the line of sight for both the Remote Video Surveillance System and U.S. Border Patrol agents. Carrizo cane, a non-native grass, grows an average of 15-feet tall in dense stands as wide as 300 feet along the river. Its height and thickness block the sight between Border Patrol agents and the Rio Grande River. The special project will be administered by Customs and Border Patrol as a pilot to compare four methods of Carrizo cane eradication. The pilot will remove 16.1 miles of the cane and will proceed in five annual phases beginning in 2008. “Carrizo cane presents unnecessary obstacles and danger for border security,” Congressman Cuellar said. “By implementing a pilot project to test methods for safe and environmentally responsible eradication, the Laredo Sector will not only establish a safer and more secure border in Laredo, it will provide solutions that effect better eradication methods all along the river and elsewhere.” “The City of Laredo is proud to help the Border Patrol with the Carrizo cane eradication program,” said Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “Homeland security has always been my priority for this city, and by removing the cane, the United States Border Patrol will not only be better able to keep our country safe, but just as importantly, our city.” Congressman Cuellar has worked with agencies at the federal, state and local level for more than a year to discuss the impact of Carrizo cane on the local environment and border security. Concerned that Border Patrol agents safely and more effectively operate in their security efforts, Congressman Cuellar encouraged the participation of all voices in discussing environmentally sound eradication efforts, in respect to border security and ecosystems along the river. In an effort to secure the border while remaining sensitive to the environment and land conservation, Customs and Border Protection conducted environmental and biological impact assessments. Reports from those assessments were presented at a public meeting in Laredo, were open to public comment for 30 days, and are now on file and approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Texas State Historical Preservation Office. Texas Soil and Water and local environmental academics are informed of the project status, and the project is in full compliance with all environmental laws and regulations Carrizo cane is an invasive species that originates in the Mediterranean. It is among the fastest growing terrestrial plants in the world, provides no known food sources or habitat for wildlife, and uses large amounts of water to supply its rapid rate of growth. Along the Rio Grande, it captures its needed water from the river, impeding the flow of water and blocking native vegetative species that thrive there.
09.04.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today a $651,200 grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for the City of McAllen Fire Department. In an effort to increase firefighter safety and response, the funds will be used to enhance and expand regional radio interoperability between McAllen, Edinburg, Linn-San Manuel, Mission and Pharr. Specifically, the grant will improve firefighter safety and mitigate harm and loss of property by providing firefighters with P-25 compliant interoperable radios. Radio interoperability between jurisdictions has been a long-standing problem in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, and most radios throughout the region have exceeded their life expectancies by several years and are no longer serviceable. All radio systems in the region, regardless of condition, do not meet current P-25 radio standards, which is the mark for interoperable digital two-way wireless communications products. McAllen will use the funds to replace old, obsolete and non-compliant radios in the region. “As a member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and as Chairman of the subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I am proud to see grant dollars delivered to the Valley region,” Congressman Cuellar said. “It is critical to increase the ability of first responders to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. I thank Congressman Ruben Hinojosa for his hard work, and I congratulate the City of McAllen for working with the region to secure these important funds.” “This grant award is the result of a collaborative effort between five neighboring fire departments from the Cities of Edinburg, Linn-San Manuel, McAllen, Mission, and Pharr,” Ruben Saenz, a representative for the City of McAllen, said. “This grant will help us work together to improve radio communications interoperability between the participating jurisdictions and will benefit the entire South Texas region.” The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants program is a component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards.
09.02.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today a $297,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Education to Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) to increase the flow of underrepresented ethnic minorities, particularly minority women, into science and engineering careers. The grant will be distributed in $99,000 increments over three years. Specifically, TAMIU will use the funds to implement a three-year special project under the Department of Education’s Minority Science and Engineering Improvement Program. The project will fund the preparation of 90 low-income and potentially first-generation college students from underrepresented groups to complete secondary education and to succeed in postsecondary education programs focused in science and technology fields. “This presents a remarkable opportunity for TAMIU students to excel and advance in scientific and technological careers,” Dr. Ray Keck, TAMIU President, said. “It aligns strongly with our University¹s growth in the math, science and engineering areas and has the long-range potential to help address our region’s and nation’s growing needs in these fields.” “I applaud the efforts of TAMIU to secure the funding necessary to make this important program possible,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This is a great step toward addressing needs in the region for professionals in math, engineering and science. For the 90 students and their families who will benefit from the program, I look forward to their progress and to their contributions to the community.” Administered by the U.S. Department of Education, the Minority Science and Engineering Improvement Program assists predominantly minority institutions in effecting long-range improvement in science and engineering education programs by supporting special projects designed to address specific barriers that eliminate or reduce the entry of minorities into science and technology fields.
08.25.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today a $150,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Health Resources and Services Administration for South Texas Rural Health Services, Inc. (STRHS). STRHS created a Mental Health/Substance Abuse Program as a pilot project in May 2006 to integrate mental health and primary care services in Frio and Medina Counties, both of which have been designated Medically Underserved Areas and Medically Underserved Populations. The grant money will ensure continued mental health/substance abuse services to area residents through expansion of the pilot program. Specifically, STRHS will use the funds to provide outreach, individual and group counseling, and follow up services in a Wellness Center on the Pearsall Health Center campus. “I congratulate the physicians and staff of South Texas Rural Health Services for securing the federal funds necessary to continue their expansion of mental health and primary care services in Frio County,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This is an important part of making sure that our rural citizens have access to quality, affordable health care.” The target population for STRHS is comprised of individuals in Frio and Medina Counties who are uninsured, undocumented, underinsured and other low-income persons seeking quality, comprehensive health care and other health services. “The successful pilot project has gone nine months without funding,” Dori Trevino, a representative for STRHS, explained. “With this grant money, we will expand the pilot project in Frio County and continue to support mental health services in the region.” Under the Health Resources and Services Administration, grants are awarded to improve the health of the Nation's underserved communities and vulnerable populations by assuring access to comprehensive, culturally competent, quality primary health care services.
08.19.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $10,000 matching grant for the Teatro de Artes de Juan Seguin awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts. The Teatro de Artes will use the grant to support the presentation of the Viva Seguin Conjunto Festival, Noche de Gala and Taller Folklórico de Primavera. The teatro produces cultural programming that connects area audiences with Mexican-American traditions in instrumental and vocal music, and dance. “Keeping our Mexican heritage alive is very important and one of the best venues to do so is by enriching our communities with Mexico’s music and dance,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I would like to congratulate the Teatro de Artes de San Juan Seguin for working hard to obtain this grant and thank them for the magnificent job they do in keeping our traditions alive.” This is the fourth consecutive year, in Fiscal Year 2008, that the Arts Endowment awards at least one direct grant in all 435 congressional districts. The direct grants are in addition to grants and educational materials the Arts Endowment provides to large and small communities through its National Initiatives.
08.14.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a new financial incentive from the U.S. Army for recruiting college Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets to take courses in critical foreign languages, including Arabic and Mandarin Chinese. To qualify for the incentive, cadets would have to commit to entering the Army, the Army Reserve or the Army National Guard as a commissioned officer. Under the pilot program, new ROTC cadets who sign a contract to enter the Army are eligible to receive $100 a month for the first year of participation, $150 a month for the second year of language study, $200 a month for the third year, and $250 a month for the fourth year (maximum $3,000 over an academic year). The program will begin this fall. “Through our engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Army has discerned a critical need to expand its foreign language capabilities,” Congressman Cuellar said. “This incentive program prioritizes the most critical languages while helping to meet officer recruiting goals. This is a strategic step toward fighting global terrorism and increasing homeland security.” Other languages covered by the program include Korean, Pashto (Afghanistan and Pakistan), Urdu (Pakistan and India), Indonesian, Swahili (east Africa), and Hausa (west and central Africa). In addition to standard classroom-based college language courses, the incentive program also covers participation in language immersion and study abroad programs. The Critical Language Incentive Pay Program is part of an overall pilot program approved by Congress to help the Army recruit officers. The program's other components include $5,000 bonuses for students who complete the Army ROTC Leader's Training Course and agree to become an Army officer, and authorization for the Army to recruit experienced doctors and other medical professionals and chaplains, which are hard to fill specialties, age 43-60, and for them to serve only two years. ROTC cadets and other interested students can contact their military science professors at their colleges or universities for more information and to sign up.
07.08.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar returned today from a six-day Congressional Delegation tour to the Middle East where he visited Texas troops and discussed democracy and anti-terrorism initiatives with leaders in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Congressman Cuellar was part of a three-member bi-partisan Texas delegation team that also included Congressmen Gene Green (D-Houston) and Michael McCaul (R-Austin.) Congressman Cuellar met with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gillani in Islamabad, Pakistan. Cuellar and Pakistani leaders discussed bilateral relations between the United States and Pakistan, including counter-terrorism efforts. Congressman Cuellar and the congressional delegation pressed Musharraf to increase Pakistani efforts in fighting terrorism in the region bordering Afghanistan. Congressman Cuellar also stopped in Kabul, Afghanistan, where he spent two days meeting with Texas troops. He gave the soldiers stationed there more than 1,000 thank you letters from local school children, Mexican candy, and tortillas. The 436th Chemical Company, which is stationed at Camp Eggers in Afghanistan, is composed of soldiers from Laredo, San Antonio, Houston and the Rio Grande Valley. The troop has been stationed at Camp Eggers since January. “This trip had the important purpose in gaining first-hand knowledge of progress in Afghanistan,” Congressman Cuellar said. “I am proud to report that our soldiers are in high-spirits, and they send warm greetings to their friends and family in Texas.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
07.03.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar issued the following statement today in reaction to the rescue of 15 people held captive by Colombian rebels. The hostages included three American military contractors taken captive when their surveillance plane went down in 2003. Marc Gonsalves, Keith Stansell and Thomas Howes, who were believed to have been held longer than any other U.S. citizens currently in captivity in the world, arrived in San Antonio this morning aboard a military plane. "The news that three American hostages and their fellow captives held by Colombian rebels have been rescued is a victory for President Uribe, the Colombian military and the nation of Colombia. I am thankful that these brave men and women will be delivered safely to their loved ones and am grateful to Colombia’s armed forces for its brilliant execution. "This indicates great progress for the nation of Colombia, and I congratulate President Uribe for his leadership. I look forward to achieving greater progress in bringing rebel leaders to peace negotiations and to a stronger working relationship between Colombia and the United States." ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
06.24.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar passed an amendment today that would require the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families of the Department of Health and Human Services to report to Congress on the effectiveness of a national child abuse hotline. Congressman Cuellar’s amendment was included in the Manager’s Amendment in H.R. 5876, The Stop Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens Act of 2008, which prohibits the physical and mental abuse of children in residential programs and mandates new disclosures on programs’ activities and marketing. An estimated 20,000 to 30,000 teenagers attend private residential programs that are intended to help them with behavioral, emotional or mental health problems. Depending on the location by state, some programs are unregulated by government. Between 1994 and 2007, the Government Accountability Office found thousands of allegations of child abuse and neglect in residential programs, and because of the lack of standard regulations, reports of child abuse have frequently gone unexamined. H.R. 5876 creates new government checks on residential programs by requiring the Assistant Secretary to conduct unannounced site inspections and gives the department authority to assess civil penalties up to $50,000 for each violation of law. As part of the bill, the Assistant Secretary must establish a national toll-free hotline to receive complaints of child abuse and neglect. Congressman Cuellar’s amendment requires the Assistant Secretary to report to Congress on the effectiveness of the hotline. “It is critical not only to stop child abuse and neglect in private residential programs,” Congressman Cuellar said, “but to create checks on government to ensure our laws are effective. By requiring the Assistant Secretary to report on the efficacy of the child abuse hotline, Congress can assure the follow-up, and termination, of reported abuse.” For more information on H.R. 5876, click here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
06.13.2008	U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar and South Texas Food Bank Executive Director Alfredo Castillo announced today that the South Texas Food Bank will receive $136,670.48 in conjunction with the 2008 Farm Bill, which oversees the monetary assistance for the nation’s nutrition programs. It is expected that the total amount of pounds of food the South Texas Food Bank receives will increase from 1,063,889 to 1,446,889 in 2008 and to 1,905,089 in 2009. The South Texas Food Bank serves seven counties – Dimmit, Maverick, Kinney, Val Verde, Webb, Zapata and Jim Hogg, the last three which are in Congressman Cuellar’s district. Per the provisions of the Farm Bill, $50 million in additional funds will be allocated to The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) for commodity purchasing. Of the $50 million, $4.3 million will be allocated to Texas and of that, $36,670.48 will be allocated to the South Texas Food Bank. In 2007, the South Texas Food Bank served an average of 17,961 clients per month in Webb County, 1,778 in Zapata, and 584 in Jim Hogg. With the increase in funding, the number of meals served to clients is expected to increase dramatically. The Food Bank in Webb County expects to serve 15,000 more meals per month in 2008 and 33,000 more meals per month in 2009. “I applaud the efforts of my colleagues in the House to help put an end to hunger,” said Congressman Cuellar, “With these increased funds, we are taking greater steps to eradicate this problem and provide nutritious meals to our residents who mostly need the service.” Said JC Dwyer, Director of Public Policy for the South Texas Food Bank: “"We're relieved that Congress has acknowledged the difficulties people have to put food on their plates. We're also extremely grateful for Congressman Cuellar's leadership. These progressive changes bring government back to the table to address the question of ending hunger in South Texas." #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
06.05.2008	U.S. Representative Henry Cuellar announced today a $4,416,530 grant for the Laredo International Airport. The money comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation – Federal Aviation Administration. The grant is divided into two awards: $3.2 million in discretionary funds which will be used to rehabilitate Runaway 14/32 and $1,216,530 in entitlement funds. The entitlement funds will be used to acquire runaway protection zones, to rehabilitate general aviation apron phases 5 and 6, and to upgrade passenger terminal automation and security access systems. “I congratulate City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas, Council Member for District 5 Johnny Rendon, Airport Director Jose Luis Flores, and city staff for working hard to secure these funds,” Congressman Cuellar said, “This grant is an indication of the great working relationship between the local and federal government. As one of the nation’s largest inland ports, the City of Laredo has room for growth, and these funds will help increase cargo and passenger traffic.” The Laredo International Airport ranks eighth in the United States in shipments to and from Latin America. “The City of Laredo appreciates the constant efforts of Congressman Cuellar to ensure adequate funding is available for continued operation of our airport, especially to enhance, improve and expand air service to and from Laredo,” said Mayor Raul G. Salinas, “Laredo’s unique position as the gateway to Mexico, as well as one of the leading inland trade ports in the country, means that we need to have an airport that can handle a high volume of passenger and cargo traffic. This grant will help us to achieve that goal.” “For the past several years, the City of Laredo has been working with our federal partners, including Congressman Cuellar and the Federal Aviation Administration, to improve our airport. This grant shows their commitment to help make our airport one of the leading airports in South Texas and Northern Mexico,” said Council Member Johnny Rendon, District 5, in whose district the airport lies. For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028 or visit www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.30.2008	Today, House Homeland Security Chairman Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS) and Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response Chairman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) applauded the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and its Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for taking steps to support a nationwide emergency alerts and warnings system for State and local partners. On May 14, the Homeland Security Subcommittee dealing with emergency communications, chaired by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), raised concerns about the Federal government’s lack of attention to developing effective alert and warning capabilities across cell networks that State and local emergency managers could harness. The 2006 Warning Alert Response Network (WARN) Act required that a Federal agency verify emergency warnings drafted by State and local governments and provide authenticated alerts to commercial cell networks for delivery to targeted areas. Today’s announcement by DHS implies that State and local officials will soon be able to submit alerts and warnings to their partners at FEMA who will propagate legitimate messages to commercial mobile service providers on their behalf. “In times of crisis, people require information and expect the government to provide it,” Congressman Cuellar said, “This Committee’s careful oversight of FEMA has produced another win for the American public. FEMA’s commitment to carry out this task begins to fill an unnecessary hole in our nation’s emergency response capability. I welcome FEMA’s acceptance of this important role and will monitor its development and implementation carefully. Our nation’s communities and their leaders deserve nothing less.” #### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
05.27.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar presented today more than 250 books from the Library of Congress to the Webb County Larga Vista Community Center. Also present to distribute the books were members of Texas A&M University’s Colonias Housing and Urban Development Department and the Gateway Rotary Club in Laredo, who have officially adopted the library in an effort to promote literacy in the area served by the community center. The books donated are surplus items from the Library of Congress, and instead of having them discarded, Congressman Cuellar is putting these books to good use. “One of my priorities in Congress is to promote and enhance the quality of education in my Congressional District, and one way of doing so is by providing the residents the resources they need to succeed. These books will help educate our residents,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I also applaud the vision of the Gateway Rotary Club and the County of Webb in ensuring the residents have all the tools they need to succeed.” “For Rotary around the world, illiteracy is simply unacceptable. For our Gateway Rotary Club in Laredo, this is our response to make things better. The library in Larga Vista has been a priority for Gateway Rotary for several years, a result of a successful partnership with Webb County,” said Alejandro Cabezut, Gateway Rotary President. “Today, we're proud to accept this important contribution as a result of the wise and caring work of our friend Congressman Cuellar in Washington.” The books donated cover an array of topics, including fiction, non-fiction, adults and children’s novels, and general reading material. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.26.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $392,031 grant will be awarded to the United Independent School District (United ISD) through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This federal program will provide United ISD funding for telecommunications services and internet access. “As part of my commitment to enhance the education our youth receives, I am proud that I worked with United ISD to obtain this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to meet with parents, students, faculty and staff to discuss the tools needed for students’ success.” Of the total money awarded, $304,614 will be used for Internet access, while the remaining $87,417 will be used for Telecommunications. The grant will also provide financial assistance for local and long-distance phone lines to facilitate communication with the local community and out-of-town educational resources. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028. # # # Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
05.20.2008	U.S Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $75,000 grant for the McAllen Miller International Airport. The money, which comes from the U.S. Department of Transportation – Federal Aviation Administration, will be used to update the airport’s master plan. The City of McAllen will oversee the grant, which will specifically be used to conduct an environmental assessment for future growth and expansion of the terminal. “I applaud the efforts of City of McAllen Mayor Richard Cortez and City Manager Mike Perez for working hard to secure this grant,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also congratulate McAllen Miller International Airport Director Phil Brown and his staff for always looking for ways to improve the quality of service it provides its passengers.” The McAllen Miller International Airport serves almost one million passengers yearly. For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028 or visit www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.16.2008	Washington, DC- U.S Congressman Henry Cuellar voted in support of the Iraq War supplemental bill that provides funding for domestic initiatives, including an updated G.I. Bill for veterans as well as an expansion of unemployment benefits. This provision, one of three in the supplemental bill, passed the House by a vote of 256-166. "We must stand behind our men and women who are protecting us overseas," said Congressman Cuellar. "Once home, veterans will now be provided with adequate resources to obtain a quality education at our nation's finest institutions of higher education." The supplemental appropriations measure expands GI benefits for veterans' education, allowing veterans who enlisted in military service after September 11, 2001, to benefit from benefits that match the current costs of obtaining post secondary education. The third provision of this measure also extends unemployment benefits for workers who have exhausted their benefits by up to 13 weeks in every state as well as an additional 13 weeks in states with high unemployment. The third portion of the supplemental bill also includes $461 million for the Merida Initiative in an effort to curb the violence that is the result of the illegal trafficking of drugs through Mexico. The Country of Mexico will receive $400 million in equipment to help fight the drug-related crime through this initiative, while countries in Central America will receive $61.5 million in equipment. "We need to put an end to this epidemic, and this cannot be accomplished without the participation of Mexico and Central America," said Congressman Cuellar. "I have met with President Calderon, and I can attest to his commitment to address the trafficking of drugs within Mexico in an efficient and effective matter". The Senate is poised to enact similar supplemental funding legislation next week. After the Senate has acted on their version of this measure, both congressional chambers will come together to resolve any differences. Congressional leadership hopes to have this measure on the President's desk in early June for signature. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.14.2008	Washington, DC- U.S Congressman Henry Cuellar joined a majority of colleagues in the House of Representatives by voting in support of H.R. 6022, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve Fill Suspension and Consumer Protection Act, in an effort to reduce the price of gasoline. The bill passed the House by a vote of 385 to 25, with the Senate passing a similar provision by a vote of 97-1. The legislation is aimed at temporarily suspending the fill of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) until the end of the year, which is a critical first step for helping America’s families, businesses and the economy in dealing with the high price of gas. “Everywhere I go, the dramatic increase in the price of gasoline keeps being the number one topic,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It’s time that we start providing a relief for families who are suffering daily as a result of high gasoline prices.” Filling of the SPR takes 70,000 barrels of oil off the market each day and a temporary suspension could reduce gas prices from five to 24 cents a gallon. The SPR is an emergency oil supply located in Texas and Louisiana. It was designed to provide the federal government with an emergency oil supply during a disruption in commercial oil supplies. Currently, the SPR is approximately 97 percent fill – the highest level ever. A suspension of oil shipments will not hurt the nation’s security needs. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.14.2008	Washington, DC- Today, U.S Congressman Henry Cuellar joined a majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives by voting in support of the Conference Report on the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, also known as the Farm Bill. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 318-106, is expected to expand food security programs, protect vital natural resources, promote healthier foods and local food networks, and reform commodity and biofuel programs to reflect the nation’s priorities. “This bill truly addresses every sector of the population in the 28th Congressional District. From farmers to ranchers and from parents to students, everyone will win with the passage of this legislation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Farm Bill invests in nutrition that will ease the strain of rising food costs for millions of America’s families.” The bill, which includes a total of $286 billion in funding, will increase nutrition programs by $10.36 billion that will help 38 million families afford healthy food and $1.25 billion of vital assistance to food banks, including $50 million that will address shortages at food pantries. The bill also assists schools in providing healthy snacks to students, with $1 billion being used for more fresh fruits and vegetables. Congressman Cuellar was also able to secure important provisions in the Farm Bill, including the Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program that ensures that this initiative will be adequately funded and implemented. This program calls for research and grants to be made available to study cattle fever ticks to facilitate understanding of the role of wildlife in the spread of cattle fever ticks. Also included is information to improve the management of diseases relating to cattle fever ticks that are associated with wildlife, livestock, and human health. A reform in farm programs is also included as part of the bill, which includes a standing disaster assistance program for crops stricken by catastrophic natural disasters such as drought and flood. It also provides supplemental income when farmers are struggling and makes food labeling of the meat supply and produce mandatory. Conservation programs will also be boosted by $7.9 billion to help reduce soil erosion, enhance water supplies, improve water and air quality, and increase wildlife habitat and reduce damage caused by flood and other natural disasters. Fruit and vegetable owners will also benefit from more than $1.3 billion for new programs that support research, pest management, trade promotion and nutrition for the industry. The bill also invests $1 billion in renewable energy focusing on new technologies and new sources, including $320 million in loan guarantees for biorefineries that produce advanced biofuels. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.12.2008	Washington, DC- Schertz student Katelyn Clare Maffei has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. A senior at Antonian College Prepatory School in San Antonio, Katelyn received the nomination from Congressman Henry Cuellar to be considered to enter the Academy. Congressman Cuellar says Katelyn was an obvious choice for his nomination: “Katelyn is an excellent student with a bright future. It was truly an honor to recommend her, as I know she will proudly represent her family, her community, and the 28th Congressional District.” Congressman Cuellar accepts applications for nominations to the United States Service Academies each year. Four year service academies include the Military Academy (Army), Air Force Academy, Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the United Sates armed services for a minimum of 5 years upon graduation. Congressman Cuellar considers outstanding young men and women from the 28th Congressional District of Texas. Nominations are made strictly on a competitive basis. As a result, Congressman Cuellar has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. The daughter of two retired Air Force Officers, Katelyn’s desire to be accepted into the U.S. Air Force Academy started in middle school. “To me there is no finer institution than the United States Air Force Academy where I can begin my training and career,” wrote Katelyn in her nomination application. “My personal attributes closely parallel those of the USAFA.” Katelyn’s excellence in academics and extracurricular activities has been evident starting from her freshman year in high school and continuing all the way to her senior year. She is a member of the National Honor Society and has been selected to participate in the National Youth Forum in Medicine and is also a member of the National Society of High School Scholars. She also has participated in volleyball, track and field, cross country and swimming. Off school, Katelyn volunteers her time with several community organizations, some of which include Meals on Wheels, San Antonio Festival of Lights, South Kitchen, Children’s Association for Maximum Potential (an organization that cares for disabled children), and many more. If you or someone you know wishes to be considered for a nomination to attend any of the service academies, please contact Jennifer Dillard at (830) 401-0457 or 1-877-780-0028. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.09.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, which helps address the home mortgage foreclosure crisis. This landmark legislation will enable hundreds of thousands of homeowners to refinance their homes, switching from risky subprime mortgages to safer loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration. This legislation represents a sensible solution for both lenders who own debt affected by the housing downturn and for homeowners who are having trouble consistently paying their mortgage. To participate in this voluntary program, the lender would have to be willing to write down a portion of the troubled mortgage, and the homeowner would have to agree to share future profits from the resale of the refinanced home with the federal government. In return, the Federal government will provide the financial support necessary to allow the loan to be refinanced in a reasonable fashion. Combined with counseling for low-income and minority homeowners and tax credits for first-time homebuyers, the legislation will help put the economy on sound footing for years to come. “We need to put a stop to this problem before it gets out of control. I applaud the efforts of my colleagues in the House who voted in support of this bill and continue making the American Dream of so many families a reality” said Congressman Cuellar. In Texas, 99,495 homeowners filed for foreclosures and that number is projected to jump to 149,661 in 2008-2009. It is estimated that between 7,000 and 8,000 people a day are filing for foreclosure on their homes across the United States, and that one in 33 homeowners is projected to be in foreclosure over the next two years as a result of subprime loans made in 2005 and 2006. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
05.02.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $134,724 grant for Texas A&M International University. The grant, which comes from the Department of Health and Human Services, will be used to increase nursing educational opportunities for students from educationally and economically disadvantaged backgrounds and from underrepresented ethnic minority groups. Specifically, these dollars will provide scholarships to help facilitate enrollment and retention of project participants in the TAMIU Canseco School of Nursing and their successful graduation with a degree in nursing. It is also expected that this project will improve the quantity and quality of health care to patients in medically underserved and rural areas by increasing access to a diversified and culturally sensitive bilingual nursing workforce. “I congratulate TAMIU and applaud their efforts in working hard to secure this grant, but most importantly, for making the welfare of our residents and our students a top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar, who received a Master in Business Administration in 1982 from TAMIU. “This grant is a win-win situation for all: Our students will be able to make their dream of obtaining a university education a reality and those needing access to health care will receive it right at home. I am also confident that this money will help alleviate the nursing shortage we have in the Laredo and surrounding areas.” Students who would like to receive financial assistance from this project will complete an application. Scholarships will be awarded based on students’ ranking by the TAMIU Office of Financial Aid and the students’ commitment to nursing in the Laredo area. “Our nursing program is among our most popular and the need for student scholarships is tremendous," said Dr. Ray Keck, TAMIU President, "We're very appreciative to Congressman Cuellar for his assistance in helping our qualified students access these funds. Most importantly, as graduates, these Bachelor of Science in Nursing recipients will address the federally designated health professional shortages in Laredo and the surrounding area. In short, they will return the support provided them to the communities they serve.” For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028 or visit www.cuellar.house.gov Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
04.30.2008	Congressman Cuellar meets with Shauna Yow and Professor Lacewell to discuss Yow's research. Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar welcomed Shauna Yow, who presented her undergraduate research as a finalist of the Council on Undergraduate Research “Undergraduate Research Posters on the Hill” event. Yow’s research, “Unintended Consequences of Legislation on the Adoption of Water Treatment Technology,” examined the potential effects of potable water technologies along the Rio Grande Valley. The annual event is sponsored by the Council on Undergraduate Research (CUR), a not-for-profit organization that supports and promotes high-quality undergraduate-faculty collaborative research and scholarship. Comprised of 492 colleges and universities and nearly 3,000 members, CUR selects sixty student posters to display at the United States Capitol as a means of informing Congress of critical issues researched by students. Students meet with Representatives to explain their work and the importance of federally-funded research endeavors. “I am proud of the hard work and dedication that Shauna has displayed here today,” said Cuellar. “The scientific research conducted by university students is an invaluable contribution to Congress and society. In particular, Shauna’s research on technologies for water treatment offered me tremendous insight that applies to the district I represent, where clean drinking water is of great concern to many.” As an Agricultural Economics major with a specialization in Policy at Texas A&M University, Yow began her project in the Fall semester of 2007 and is ongoing. The project seeks to identify and analyze the economic and social implications of the Texas Senate Bill 3 on the Rio Grande Valley water market, any unintended consequences of legislation, and the resulting adoption of alternative technologies for producing potable water. “Because I intend to pursue a career in law, this project gave me the opportunity to better understand the complex laws governing Texas water,” said Yow. “My goal in researching was to determine how Texas Senate Bill 3, which established the price at which irrigation water converts to municipal water at 68 percent of the prevailing market price, could affect the adoption of water treatment technology between brackish groundwater desalination and conventional surface water treatment methods.” “I am pleased to have been given the opportunity to present my findings to Congressman Cuellar, whose district contains communities along the Rio Grande River,” said Yow. “I am also especially grateful for the support and guidance of Dr. Edward Rister and Dr. Ronald Lacewell through my investigation.” If you or someone you know is interested in participating in CUR’s annual undergraduate research poster session on Capitol Hill, visit www.cur.org. If you have questions regarding federal grants, scholarships, or financial aid, please contact my office at (830) 401-0457. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
04.28.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that funds appropriated in the recently passed 2008 Consolidated Appropriations Act will be used to expand the prosecution of criminal activity along the border, providing for 64 Assistant U.S. Attorneys (AUSAs) and 35 contract support staff positions along the southern regions of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California. The increased resources will support federal law enforcement activities along the U.S.-Mexico border region that will aid in prosecuting federal cases stemming from the increase of federal case work along the border. Specifically, the Southern District of Texas, which includes Laredo, McAllen and the Rio Grande Valley region, will receive funding for 13 AUSAs and seven support staff to prosecute drug and gun smuggling, human trafficking, violent crimes and money laundering. “I thank Congressman Culberson and other colleagues such as Congressman Ruben Hinojosa, Congressman Solomon Ortiz and Congressman Silvestre Reyes for working to stop border violence,” said Cuellar. “I am also grateful for the expedient pace at which Deputy Attorney General Mark R. Filip moved to help us in our effort.” The funding will also provide for new positions that will aid in misdemeanor prosecution initiatives like Operation Streamline. Initially established in Del Rio, Texas, Operation Streamline has demonstrated a reduced number of illegal crossing and is now implemented in Laredo, Texas. “The burdens we face along the border are great, and as a result, casework is extremely heavy,” said Cuellar. “Illegal crossers, drug and gun smugglers, and violent crimes associated with drug cartels will be put to justice with this funding.” “This great news sends a very strong message to those committing crime in our community: the more aggressive we get in prosecuting illegal activity, the less inclined criminals will be to break the law now that the threat of prosecution is stronger and the stakes are higher.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
04.28.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar held a press conference with local law enforcement officials announcing the U.S. Coast Guard’s initiative to begin assessing the border region’s need for increased Coast Guard presence on the banks of the Rio Grande River. As a result of Cuellar’s amendment to the Coast Guard Reauthorization (H.R.2830), which passed the House last week, the U.S. Coast Guard will begin meeting with local law enforcement agencies in Laredo tomorrow. Cuellar’s amendment charges the U.S. Coast Guard to analyze their current mission and to identify resources that are necessary to increase their presence. Part of the Department of Homeland Security, the Coast Guard is an integral part of making Americans safer – with responsibilities for such missions as protecting ports, waterways, and the marine transportation system from an act of terrorism and securing our borders against unlawful entry into the U.S. at ports and waterways. Currently, the U.S. Coast Guard is only able to patrol a very small part of the Rio Grande River twice each quarter, leaving local agencies and the U.S. Border Patrol to provide security on banks of the 1,200-mile Rio Grande River and not on the river waters. “I am pleased the U.S. Coast Guard is taking the initial steps to assess ways to work jointly with local law enforcement agencies,” said Cuellar. “In order to secure the borders, the talents and resources of various entities, like the U.S. Coast Guard, are imperative. The important role they have in protecting our nation is especially needed along the international waters of the Rio Grande River.” The Coast Guard Reauthorization provides $8.4 billion for the Coast Guard, $200 million over the President’s budget, and provides for a 1,500 increase in Coast Guard personnel, for a total of 47,000. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
04.25.2008	Washington – Recently, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented to Congressman Henry Cuellar the “Spirit of Enterprise” award for his support on key business legislation voted on during the 110th Congress, first session. The award is presented to Members of Congress who have cast votes that help the economy grow and create new jobs. Representatives’ ranking and legislation in focus are catalogued in the Chamber’s annual publication, How They Voted. Based on 20 House votes that have a direct impact on business according to the Chamber, Cuellar received a cumulative score of 86. Key votes included a trade promotion agreement with Peru, an extension of the Andean Trade Preference Act, and extension of the federal backstop for terrorism risk insurance, revisions to the rules governing direct foreign investment, and critical water resources legislation to facilitate commerce at the nation’s waterways and ports. “It is an honor to receive this award,” said Cuellar. “As a member of the House Committee on Small Business and representing the congressional district that contains one of the nation's largest volume trade ports, I take the issues facing business and our economy as a whole very seriously. The ‘Spirit of Enterprise’ award embodies the belief that trade, investment, transportation, development and education are key to a booming, prosperous nation, and my votes last session have clearly reflected that.” “Representative Cuellar has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans,” said Tom Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. “The Chamber is grateful for Henry’s commitment to these important issues and is proud to present him with this award.” Cuellar voted favorably on the following: Electricity Infrastructure (H.R. 2641); Punitive Energy Taxes (H.R. 2776); Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3074); Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act conference report (H.R. 3074); Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 1495); Small Business Compliance (H.R. 2829); America COMPETES Act (H.R. 2272); Terrorism Risk Insurance Revision and Extension Act (H.R. 2761); FDA Amendments (H.R. 2900); Small Business tax Relief act (H.R. 976); Internet Tax (H.R. 3678); U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (H.R. 3688); Andean Trade Preference Act (H.R. 1830); International Investment Reform (H.R. 556). ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
04.24.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar spoke on the House floor urging support for his amendment to the Coast Guard Reauthorization (H.R.2830), which charges the U.S. Coast Guard to examine the need to increase the Coast Guard’s presence along the international waters of the Rio Grande River. Cuellar’s amendment passed the House by voice vote and carries the bipartisan support of Congressman Michael McCaul and Congressman Ruben Hinojosa, both from Texas. Part of the Department of Homeland Security, the Coast Guard is an integral part of making Americans safer – with responsibilities for such missions as protecting ports, waterways, and the marine transportation system from an act of terrorism and securing our borders against unlawful entry into the U.S. at ports and waterways. Currently, the U.S. Coast Guard is only able to patrol a very small part of the Rio Grande River twice each quarter, leaving local agencies and the U.S. Border Patrol to provide security on banks of the 1,200-mile Rio Grande River, not on the river waters. Congressman Cuellar’s amendment requires the U.S. Coast Guard to: • Analyze their current mission along the international waters of the Rio Grande River, including a personnel and assets assessment • identify what resources would be needed to increase the Coast Guard’s presence along the international boundary of the Rio Grande River “By increasing the U.S. Coast Guard’s presence in an area of unquestionable need, the international waters of the Rio Grande River, the level of security along the border will be heightened,” said Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar recognized the need for local agencies to collaborate with federal agencies in efforts to secure the border. “The safety of the international border is a national security concern as the level of violence in Mexico increases and spills across the border,” said Cuellar. “While local law enforcement agencies and the Border Patrol serve us heroically everyday, they have limited resources for patrolling the international water boundary. We need to offer them support in their valiant efforts.” The Coast Guard Reauthorization provides $8.4 billion for the Coast Guard, $200 million over the President’s budget, and provides for a 1,500 increase in Coast Guard personnel, for a total of 47,000. ## Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
04.23.2008	Contact: Yolanda C. Urrabazo Press Secretary (Cuellar) 202-225-1640 Contact: Josh Rosenblum Press Secretary (Rodriguez) 202-225-4511 Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, Congressman Ciro D. Rodriguez (TX-23), a member of the House Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, and several others today introduced legislation aimed at reducing border violence by cracking down on illegal gunrunning. Last week Senators Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) introduced similar legislation in the Senate. “While President Calderon has increased efforts to thwart the northward flow of drugs to the U.S., Congress must take steps to stop the southward flow of the firearms that supply these criminal organizations and fuel their infiltration,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “Increasing the enforcement resources available to ATF will allow this agency to work together with the DEA to reduce the trafficking of guns and drugs that plague our border communities.” “We must stop this vicious cycle of guns being smuggled across the border to arm drug cartels who then use those weapons in border communities and against our law enforcement agents,” said Rodriguez. “Cracking down on the illegal trafficking of guns into Mexico from the U.S. will save lives, reduce violence in border communities, and make it harder for the drug cartels to arm themselves.” The bill would authorize $15 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to expand the U.S. Department of Justice’s Project Gunrunner Initiative, ATF's southwest border initiative to deprive drug traffickers of firearms and reduce firearms-related violence on both sides of the border. The funding would enable the US Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) to hire, train and deploy an additional 80 special agents, enough for at least seven more Project Gunrunner Teams in the border region to investigate and help prosecute individuals that traffic weapons into Mexico. The bill also authorizes $9.5 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2010 to enhance cooperation between the United States and Mexico. This funding would allow ATF to assign an additional 12 agents to consulates in Mexico to support Mexico’s efforts to trace seized weapons and to train Mexican law enforcement officials in anti-trafficking investigative techniques. According to the ATF, most of the firearms violence in Mexico is perpetrated by drug traffickers who are vying for control of drug trafficking routes to the United States and engaging in turf battles for disputed distribution territories. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
04.23.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted in favor of H.R. 5613, Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act of 2008, which passed the House by a vote of 349-62. This bipartisan bill places a moratorium until March 2009 on seven Administration-imposed Medicaid regulations that would slash federal Medicaid funding to states for vital programs and services by about $18 billion over the next five years. The bill also establishes an independent review of these regulations prior to the expiration of the moratorium next year. In addition, it provides $25 million to HHS each year, beginning in FY 2009, to fight fraud and abuse in the Medicaid program. Specifically, by imposing a moratorium, this bill would protect states, beneficiaries, and providers from the Medicaid cuts caused by the following seven rules: • Restrictions on payment for Medicaid coverage of rehabilitation services • Restrictions on payment for Medicaid coverage of case management services • Elimination of payment for school-based transportation and outreach • Redefinition of allowable provider taxes used to raise state funding for Medicaid • Restrictions on payment for Medicaid hospital outpatient benefits • Elimination of payment for graduate medical education in Medicaid • Restrictions on payments to safety net institutions (intergovernmental transfers) “I am proud to join with my colleagues in the House of Representatives in opposing these proposed Medicaid regulations, and I will continue to work on behalf of local physicians, hospitals and their patients,” said Cuellar. “Their safety and health is of paramount importance to me in Congress, and the security of our country rests upon the continued solvency of the safety net institutions for physicians and Medicaid beneficiaries.” Groups who supported this bill include University Health Systems, TORCH, Mercy Hospital, Christus Santa Rosa, Governor Perry of Texas, Texas Association of School Administrators, National Association of Social Workers, American Hospital Association, American Academy of Pediatrics and AARP. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
04.18.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $2 million grant for the City of Laredo. The grant comes from the Federal Aviation Administration and will be used to assist residents who live in certain areas near the Laredo International Airport with noise mitigation. Specifically, the federal funds will be used to continue with the implementation of airport noise mitigation efforts. This is a voluntary program where property owners get to choose from participating in one of three options: the first option is to allow the City of Laredo to purchase their property, the second is to have their home insulated in exchange for an avigation easement, and the third is for the property owner to sell the city an avigation easement. Approximately 200 residents, most of them living in City Council District II, will be eligible to participate. This is the 10th Noise Mitigation grant that the City of Laredo receives since this project started getting funded in 1998. Within the last 10 years, the Federal Aviation Administration has provided the City of Laredo more than $31 million, with the City having invested $2.5 million. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help improve the quality of life for our residents,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is imperative that our citizens are able to live a nice and peaceful life, and one way of doing so is helping eliminate the loud noise caused by large aircrafts.” “I can not thank Congressman Cuellar enough for always looking out after our citizens,” said Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “The money being awarded today is a result of our great working relationship with Congressman Cuellar and with federal agencies in Washington, DC. Officials in Washington know and understand our needs.” For information on federal grants, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to www.cuellar.house.gov Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
04.17.2008	Congressman Cuellar today joined a bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives to approve legislation to ensure that the current economic time in the U.S. financial markets does not keep students and families from accessing the federal student loans they need to pay for college. The Ensuring Continued Access to Federal Student Loans Act of 2008 (H.R. 5715), which carries no new cost for taxpayers, was passed by a vote of 383-27. “As a strong believer in education, I will continue to work for the advancement of students in my district,” said Cuellar. “The vote I cast today will affect thousands of students and their families. They will be less reliant on borrowing from costly private college loans and can now turn to federal loans with more time to pay them off, including those who have been denied access to student loans due to their inability to make mortgage payments.” “It is my hope that Congress does everything in its power to lessen the burden of financing a college education, which will ultimately encourage more and more individuals to give college a try,” added Cuellar. The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 (H.R. 5715) would provide new protections, in addition to those that already exist under current law, to ensure that families continue to have timely, uninterrupted access to federal college loans in the event that the stress in the credit markets leads a significant number of lenders to substantially reduce their activity in the federally guaranteed student loan program. H.R. 5715 would: • Reduce borrowers’ reliance on costlier private college loans by increasing the annual loan limits on federal college loans by $2,000 for undergraduate students, and by increasing the aggregate (the total loan limit over the course of a student’s education) loan limits to $31,000 for dependent undergraduates and $57,500 for independent undergraduates; • Give parent borrowers more time to begin paying off their federal PLUS loans by providing them with the option to defer repayment until up to six months after their children leave school – giving families more flexibility in hard economic times. • Help struggling homeowners pay for college by making sure that short-term delinquencies in mortgage payments don’t prohibit otherwise eligible parents from being able to borrow parent PLUS loans. Under current law, parents with an adverse credit history are ineligible to receive a parent PLUS loan, except under extenuating circumstances. The legislation would temporarily classify as an extenuating circumstance delinquencies on home mortgages of up to 180 days, therefore making it possible for parents who are being strained by the current housing market to secure loans for their children; • Clarify that existing law gives the U.S. Education Secretary the authority to advance federal funds to guaranty agencies in the event that they do not have sufficient capital to originate new loans, and allow guaranty agencies to carry out the functions of lender of last resort on a school-wide basis. Under the Higher Education Act, these guaranty agencies are obligated to serve as a nationwide network of lenders of last resort if requested to do so by the Education Secretary; and • Give the U.S. Education Secretary the temporary authority to purchase loans from lenders in the federal guaranteed loan program, ensuring that lenders continue to have access to capital to originate new loans. The Education Department would be authorized to purchase loans only if doing so would not result in a net cost for the federal government. ## Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
04.15.2008	As taxpayers in Texas completed their tax returns, Congressman Cuellar joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of the Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act, vowing to help put the tax code back on the side of middle class families. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act was passed by the House today in a vote of 238-179. The bill takes action on behalf of America’s taxpayers. The legislation strengthens taxpayer protections from identity theft and tax fraud, simplifies cell phone tax reporting and expands tax help for low-income taxpayers. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification Act also includes measures to make the tax code easier to use and understand. Currently, the tax code contains more than seven hundred provisions affecting individuals and more than fifteen hundred affecting businesses – a total of more than 1.4 million words. The confusing tax code costs taxpayers more than $1 billion annually because taxpayers make the wrong decisions on tax forms. The bill passed today strengthens IRS outreach and assistance efforts to help ensure taxpayers know they are entitled to tax refunds or to payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit. The legislation also takes steps to close egregious corporate loopholes and stop federal contractors from using foreign subsidiaries to evade Social Security and other employment taxes. Currently, companies avoid paying their fair share of Social Security and Medicare taxes by creating shell companies in the Cayman Islands. The Taxpayer Assistance and Simplification closes this loophole, which costs American taxpayers almost $100 million a year. “I was proud to back legislation that reinvests in America and helps ensure taxpayers who play by the rules get the assistance they need and deserve,” said Cuellar. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
04.14.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $19,065.69 grant will be awarded to the Lytle Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This federal program will provide Lytle Independent School District funding for telecommunication services and basic maintenance of internal connections. “As part of my commitment to enhance the education our youth receives, I am proud that I have helped secure funds for Lytle ISD,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to meet with parents, students, faculty and staff to discuss the tools needed for students’ success.” The grant will also provide financial assistance for local and long-distance phone lines to facilitate communication with the local community and out-of-town educational resources. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
04.11.2008	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that La Joya Independent School District has received a $1.65 million Teaching American History Grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The money will be used to implement the Recent Immigrant & Special Education (RISE) Project. RISE is a comprehensive five-year American History teacher professional development project whose primary goal is to raise student achievement in the area of traditional American History. The project does this by improving the quality of instruction in K-12 traditional American History. Forty elementary, middle school and high school teachers of recent immigrant and special education students will be served. "I love that Project RISE focuses on American History teachers of these two special populations -- recent immigrants and special education students, " said Dr. Alda T. Benavides, La Joya ISD Superintendent." It will enable us to promote even better opportunities for kids with special needs and some with deprived backgrounds. Our teachers will be able to bring the world to them." The three main project objectives are: 1) increase teacher knowledge in traditional American history; 2) increase student achievement in the area of traditional American history in grades K-12; and 3) increase La Joya ISD’s capacity to provide long-term, sustained professional development in the area of traditional American history beyond the life of the grant period. This is the third Teaching American History grant La Joya ISD has been awarded in the last six years, for a combined $3,638,688 in that span. “I congratulate Dr. Benavides and other La Joya ISD educators for their hard work in bringing this grant to the schools in La Joya,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Their continued hard work and dedication will make a difference in the quality of education provided to the children of La Joya.” "These American History teachers that work with recent immigrants and special education students often get left out when it comes to professional development in their content field," said Dagoberto Ramirez, Social Studies Coordinator and the Teaching American History grant director for the district. "Over the next five years, this group of forty teachers will benefit tremendously from the experiences they will participate in with our local and distant partners." The major partners in the program are South Texas College, Region One Education Service Center, the Museum of South Texas History and Pennsbury Manor, Independence National Historical Park, Hopewell Furnace National Historic Site, Hampton National Historic Site, Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine, and Eisenhower National Historic Site. All aspects of the RISE Project will be available as a direct contribution for research, policy, and practice, easily replicated as needed locally, state-wide, and nationally. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.24.2008	Texas A&M International University officials expressed gratitude and excitement for being awarded a $500,000 earmark from the federal government through the work of Congressman Henry Cuellar. TAMIU, in cooperation with the Texas Engineering Experiment Station, proposed an Energy-Efficient Green Campus Research Initiative at Texas A&M International University comprised of three elements: 1) Fully develop and implement a Green Campus strategy for greater energy and resource efficiency 2) Obtain LEED® certification from the US Green Building Council for the new Student Success Center as a highly visible cornerstone for this new initiative; and 3) Design and develop a “plug and play,” test-bed feature within the new Student Success Center mechanical and control systems to facilitate future research on high-efficient building systems and renewable technologies TAMIU is a modern, 300-acre campus near the US-Mexico border, situated in a very sensitive ecological area. TAMIU is experiencing explosive student and population growth fueled by the NAFTA trade agreement that presents many challenges as well as opportunities. It is faced with very high energy costs that have increased by almost 50% the last two years which eat away at teaching funds. It is imperative the University find the resources needed to improve what they have and strive to meet the challenges of the future. “The world has a fixed amount of natural resources – some of which are already depleted,” said Congressman Cuellar. “So as population growth greatly strains our finite resources, there are fewer resources available. If we intend to leave our children and grandchildren with the same standard of living we have enjoyed, we must preserve the foundation of that standard of living.” “Today, I’m happy to report that Texas A&M International University is taking the first step in doing just that,” Cuellar continued. This initiative will provide TAMIU critical resources to undertake a path to a more cost-effective, environmental friendly future. It will mitigate the impact on student fees by lowering their energy cost in existing and new facilities through more efficient design, operations, controls optimization, use of renewable resources, and lower water use. It will also serve as a model for local governments, school districts, and businesses in the Valley. TAMIU is the ideal facility in Texas to undertake this initiative and to succeed because of its relatively small size, modern design, and visionary leadership of its President, Dr. Ray Keck, III, administration, and faculty. This project will have significant impact on the University, local community, and the Texas A&M University multi-campus system, as well as international impact due to its proximity to Mexico. This project is an ideal opportunity for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EE/RE) division to partner with a visionary university to begin their conversion to a totally green, energy-efficient campus (the first 100 % green campus in Texas), at relatively low-cost, due to its size and modern infrastructure. # # # Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.20.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced news of $ 5.2 million made available from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS). The funding will be used to control outbreaks of cattle fever ticks occurring outside a permanent quarantine zone between Texas and Mexico. An increased number of outbreaks within the permanent quarantined zone points to the detrimental activity occurring outside the permanent quarantine zone. The new available funding will provide more people, surveillance, training and treatments to ensure the containment and early detection of new infestations outside the permanent quarantine zone. Funds will be used for more mounted inspectors to patrol against livestock harboring ticks crossing into Texas from Mexico and additional animal health technicians to control outbreaks and surveillance outside the permanent quarantine zone. Congressman Henry Cuellar has been resolute in his efforts to resolve the crisis South Texas ranchers face in the 28th District. Cuellar has worked closely with the USDA to draw attention to the issue as it occurs in Zapata, Jim Hogg, Starr, La Salle and Hidalgo Counties; spoken with the Secretary of Agriculture personally about the issue; included an appropriation request for funds to eradicate the fever tick; and inserted an amendment in the 2007 Farm Bill, legislation pending committee completion which is expected to mandate additional fever tick programs. “Cattle fever ticks have been a significant problem for U.S. cattlemen since the early 20th century,” said Cuellar. “Though the USDA eradication program eliminated cattle fever ticks nationwide by 1943, there still exists the narrow buffer zone along the border with Mexico which has been continually reinfested.” The cattle ticks detected beyond the quarantine area have been attributed to a rise in ticks being transported across the Rio Grande River by wildlife, stray livestock or livestock illicitly moved into the United States; weather patterns and rainfall amounts that favor tick survival; movement of cattle from infested pastures to non-infested areas where ticks may infest and spread through wildlife; discovery of cattle fever ticks resistant to a variety of pesticides. The two types of cattle fever ticks, B. annulatus and B. microplus, are among the most serious external parasites of cattle, carrying bovine babesiosis, a disease which leads to anemia, and ultimately, death to cattle. “The stakes are very high,” Cuellar said. “The expenses to ranchers in these areas are significant, including hauling cattle to dipping tanks, losing cattle due to hauling, and reduced market value of cattle. I have worked relentlessly with my staff, with ranchers directly impacted, and with USDA.” “So many individuals played a key role in researching and raising awareness of this issue, including the Texas Southwestern Cattlemen Association, The South Texans Property Rights Association, Texas Cattle Feeders, Livestock Marketing Association, Zapata County Chamber of Commerce, Texas A&M University and Texas A&M Kingsville’s Cesar Kleberg Wildlife Rearch Center. I am pleased our efforts have paid off with this news of funding for this program.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.19.2008	Washington – The National Journal’s 2007 congressional vote ratings place Congressman Henry Cuellar as the second-most-centrist Congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives. Reporters and editors from the non-partisan magazine, including CNN political analyst William Schneider, based ratings on key votes relating to economic, social, or foreign policy issues, gauging their votes from conservative to progressive. Of the 109 decisive votes scored for this report, Congressman Cuellar received a composite progressive score of 50.5, placing him in the 214th spot among 429 House Members. Cuellar stands in the 216th spot for his composite conservative score of 49.7. Composite scores are an average of the individual scores derived from key votes on economic, social, and foreign policy during 2007. Cuellar’s scores on economic, social and foreign policy indicate an almost even balance and a strong independent voice. Cuellar was more conservative than 53% of his colleagues on key economic votes; more conservative than 44% of his colleagues on key social issues votes; and more conservative than 51% of his colleagues on key foreign policy votes. “The rating of my votes in relation to my colleagues is absolutely reflective of my efforts to represent the unique interests of 28th District of Texas,” said Cuellar. “I recognize the need to cross party lines and engage in bipartisan efforts. I am proud of my moderate positions and have always approached the broad spectrum of issues with the District in mind.” “Having grown up in South Texas, the sensibilities of the community guide me in every vote I cast on the House floor—from going against the grain on my “no” vote for the border fence and standing in favor of trade, to joining the majority on decreasing college costs and raising the minimum wage,” said Cuellar. “As a result, my centrist position according to the National Journal accurately defines where I stand in Congress and reflects the voice of my constituents.” Congressman Cuellar has also demonstrated his support to strengthening the middle class, according to the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy (DMI). Cuellar’s moderate voting record on middle-class issues like health care, college affordability, the economy, and housing scored him an “A” in the 2007 score report. In addition to these recognitions, Congressman Cuellar was also honored as the 2008 Distinguished Community Health Superhero by the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC). The award is presented to deserving members of Congress who demonstrate extraordinary efforts to preserve, strengthen and expand access to America’s Health Centers, providers of high-quality health care for America’s medically underserved. “I share the values of my constituents, the hardworking middle class who are essential to a strong America,” said Cuellar. “Access to health care and quality education in a sound economy are primary issues of the middle class, which I take to heart here in Washington.” ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.17.2008	Cibolo student, Jonathan E. Garcia, has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Jonathan, a graduate of Byron Steele High School, received a nomination from Congressman Henry Cuellar to enter the Academy. Congressman Cuellar says Jonathan was an obvious choice for his nomination. “Jonathan is a bright student who I was pleased to nominate,” said Congressman Cuellar. “He will make his family, his school and his hometown proud, as I am of his achievements.” Congressman Cuellar accepts applications for nominations to the United States Service Academies each year. Four year service academies include the Military Academy (Army), Air Force Academy, Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the United Sates armed services for a minimum of 5 years upon graduation. Congressman Cuellar considers outstanding young men and women from the 28th Congressional District of Texas. Nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, Congressman Cuellar has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. In high school, Jonathan was very accomplished in academics. His senior level course work consisted of advanced and honors classes, while serving as Vice President of the Student Council and National Honor Society. He was a member of several clubs, including the History Club and Law Enforcement Club. Jonathan also participated in the John Ben Sheppard Public Leadership Institute Student Forum and the McCombs School of Business Jr. Summer Program. He was also a Band Section Leader. Furthermore, during his spare time, Jonathan volunteered for Toys for Tots, and the animal shelter. If you or someone you know wishes to be considered for a nomination to attend any of the service academies, please contact Jennifer Dillard at (830) 401-0457 or 1-877-780-0028. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
03.14.2008	Last night, Congressman Henry Cuellar was named as the 2008 Distinguished Community Health Superhero by the National Association of Community Health Centers (NACHC). The award is presented to deserving individuals who demonstrate extraordinary efforts to preserve, strengthen and expand access to America’s Health Centers, providers of high-quality health care for America’s medically underserved. The award was presented by Mr. Mike Treviño Jr., Chief Executive Officer of the Gateway Community Health Center and Mr. Jose Camancho, Executive Director of Texas Association of Community Health Centers and was signed by Lil Anderson, Chair of the Board of Directors and Thomas J. Van Coverden, President and CEO. “It is an honor to receive this award,” said Cuellar. “The unique health care challenges the 28th District faces is of increasing concern to me. Diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, hypertension and cancer are prevalent issues in our region. Community health centers are, therefore, a blessing to the large number of children and parents who are either uninsured or underinsured and to those who live in medically underserved minority and rural communities.” “We are happy to recognize Congressman Cuellar for his continued support of our community’s health service movement,” said Mr. Treviño. “He has played an important role in helping us execute our plans to bring quality health care to the underserved individuals throughout the district. We congratulate him and thank him for advocating our cause.” “This recognition carries a significant meaning to me because, together, we are making a difference in so many lives,” said Cuellar. “We have five community health centers in the 28th District of Texas, and there is more to be done. Bringing federal grant money to health care organizations like community health centers to expand and provide convenient accessibility to constituents will continue to be one of my top priorities,” said Cuellar. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.13.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cuellar joined a majority in the House of Representatives in support of a new fiscally responsible budget plan that will strengthen the economy and make America safer. The budget for Fiscal Year 2009 was approved by a vote of 212-207. The budget resolution complies with the House pay-as-you-go rule that requires all mandatory spending and revenue provisions to be deficit-neutral. While adhering to the pay-go rule, the budget does not raise taxes by one penny and will reach a balance by 2012. The budget invests in proven programs that boost economic growth, create jobs, make America safer, promote fiscally responsible tax relief to millions of households, and help families struggling to make ends meet in an economic downturn. The budget provides robust funding for our national defense; provides $3.6 billion above baseline for Veterans Health Care; includes $50 billion for expansion of SCHIP, to the extent it is fully offset; provides a $7.1 billion increase for education. “Making America safer and strengthening our economy are the American people’s priorities. Our budget rebuilds America in a way that makes a significant difference in people’s day-to-day lives while reducing the deficit,” said Cuellar. “Sufficient funds for high-impact programs in education, infrastructure, energy, and innovation will ensure a prosperous nation for future generations.” For more information from the House Committee on the Budget, click here. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
03.12.2008	La Vernia student, Brianna LeFrere has been offered an appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Brianna, a senior at La Vernia High School, received a nomination from Congressman Henry Cuellar to enter the Academy. Congressman Cuellar says Briana was an obvious choice for his nomination. “Briana is a bright student who I was pleased to nominate,” said Congressman Cuellar. “She will make her family, her school and her hometown proud, as I am of her achievements.” Congressman Cuellar accepts applications for nominations to the United States Service Academies each year. Four year service academies include the Military Academy (Army), Air Force Academy, Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the United Sates armed services for a minimum of 5 years upon graduation. Congressman Cuellar considers outstanding young men and women from the 28th Congressional District of Texas. Nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, Congressman Cuellar has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that determines nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. Briana is very accomplished in academics. She is an Honor Roll student (all four years of high school), top student in Business Computer Information Systems, received a 6th place medal in UIL Headline Writing, a NASA High School Aerospace Scholar member, and participated in the United States Air Force Academy summer seminar. Briana is also active in sports having been a member of the Junior Varsity Tennis Team, earned a Varsity letter her Junior year, and served as Tennis Team Captain her Senior year. She also received 2nd place in the Girls Doubles District Tennis Tournament, and participated in the All-Star Roller Hockey Team for ten years, and served as Team Captain. Furthermore, on her spare time, Briana tutors Algebra and Geometry, while volunteering at La Vernia Nursing Home. If you or someone you know wishes to be considered for a nomination to attend any of the service academies, please contact Jennifer Dillard at (830) 401-0457 or 1-877-780-0028. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
02.29.2008	Rio Bravo Volunteer Fire Department officials expressed gratitude and excitement for being awarded a $190,000 grant from the Department of Homeland Security. The funds will be used for the purchase of a new, fully-equipped fire truck. The grant announcement was made today by Congressman Henry Cuellar. “We are extremely grateful for this grant, and we have been counting on this fire truck—the first of its kind here—for a long time now,” said Fire Chief Javier Estrada. “In our rural community, the distance between hydrants has made our job a challenge. With this truck, though, we can now transport 1,500 gallons of water and not have to find the nearest hydrant.” The fire truck that will be purchased with the awarded funds will improve the response time to the scene of a rescue, as well as allow firefighters to efficiently manage multiple scenes at the same time with different firefighting/rescue vehicles. “I applaud the efforts of the Rio Bravo Volunteer Fire Department and congratulate them on receiving this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I know the strong impact that volunteer fire departments have on rural areas, and I commend them for everything they are doing to secure the safety of their community’s residents.” “We thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for all his efforts in this area,” said Mr. Estrada. “He knows the needs of this community. The people of Rio Bravo can rest assured that the brave firefighters are capable and equipped to respond to emergencies.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides funding to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of the departments and non-affiliated emergency medical services organizations. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program will help enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of citizens in Lytle and the San Antonio area. Since 2004, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
02.20.2008	San Antonio, TX – The Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute (CHLI) today held its fifth Freddie Mac’s CreditSmartÒ financial literacy workshop at the University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA) College of Business Center for Student Professional Development. Over ninety students attended this afternoon’s workshop which aims to provide students with information on how to make wise financial decisions. During the free workshops, UTSA college students learned about consumer credit and money management, with an emphasis on preparing for the financial responsibilities of college and planning for the future. They also learned how credit plays a profound role in achieving financial goals, such as renting an apartment, buying a car or house or getting a job. “As one of CHLI’s Congressional Board Members, I am pleased to see that college students in my district are benefiting from this tremendous financial literacy workshop. The enormous wealth of information CHLI and Freddie Mac have offered is sure to get students on the right track for establishing and maintaining good credit. Students are very capable of establishing priorities, setting limits, and heightening their level of discipline as they study—they must also apply these qualities as a consumer. The 110th Congress has made great leaps in reducing the costs for higher education, and I will continue to work hard to help alleviate the financial burdens college students and their families face,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “We are proud to be working with the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute to offer CreditSmartÒ and CreditSmartÒ Español workshops to college students,” said Christina Diaz-Malone, director of Freddie Mac. “We hope to better prepare students to deal with the challenges of earning an income, spending wisely and saving money. People who have a better understanding of credit and financial concepts more effectively save, budget and pay bills on time.” CreditSmartÒ and CreditSmartÒ Español are Freddie Mac’s signature instructor led curriculum, which are being offered in partnership with the Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute at academic institutions throughout the county. Freddie Mac is a stockholder-owned corporation established by Congress in 1970 to support homeownership and rental housing. Freddie Mac purchases single-family and multifamily residential mortgages and mortgage-related securities, which it finances primarily by issuing mortgage passthrough securities and debt instruments in the capital markets. Over the years, Freddie Mac has made home possible for one in six homebuyers and more than four million renters. For additional information about Freddie Mac, visit the company’s web site: www.freddiemac.com. The Congressional Hispanic Leadership Institute is a 501(C)(3) not-for-profit and non-partisan organization dedicated to creating a broader awareness of the diversity of thought, heritage, interests and views of Americans of Hispanic and Portuguese descent. For more information, please visit CHLI’s web site: www.chli.org #####
02.11.2008	Today, U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar announced $150,000 for Jim Hogg County to use as start-up money for recreational programs and a recreational facility. Additional funds are also available for county officials through grant opportunities from the United State Department of Agriculture (USDA). “Recreational programs with a facility where children can be safe after school and on weekends is critical for any community,” says Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud the efforts of Jim Hogg County officials for having the vision to get this project off the ground. I will continue working towards securing future funding to see the Youth Center built and ready for kids.” Meanwhile, County Judge Guadalupe Canales says the start-up money is essential for their community. “We are very grateful to Congressman Cuellar for getting us this much needed funding,” says Judge Canales. “We know how important it is to have a place our kids can go to for activities. Keeping them off our streets is our number one priority.” Ongoing discussions have taken place between Congressman Cuellar and Jim Hogg County officials on the need to build a youth center for the kids of Jim Hogg County. Officials say one of their options would be to build a Boys and Girls Club that would provide a variety of after-school activities for kids. For information on federal funding, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to www.cuellar.house.gov ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
02.11.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the Roma Volunteer Fire Department, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $54,755 to the Fire Department. The grant was awarded to the Volunteer Fire Department to purchase new equipment for their fire trucks, and provide several members of the volunteer fire department with new fire-fighter bunker protective gear, including a jacket, pair of pants, gloves, helmet and boots. Congressman Cuellar says the safety and well-being of our men and women when responding to an emergency situation is a top priority of his. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, it’s important to me that our first responders—those tasked to keep our community members safe in times of emergencies—are equipped with the latest protective gear and equipment,” says Congressman Cuellar. “When I learned what the Roma Volunteer Fire Department needed the money for, it was crucial that this grant be awarded.” Meanwhile, Fire Chief Jose H. Garcia says with Congressman Cuellar’s help this year, they were finally able to receive the much needed money. “I’ve tried over the last seven or eight years to receive grant money, and this time we worked with Congressman Cuellar’s office. I am very grateful for his help and look forward to more funding opportunities in the future.” The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. This award is round 22 of Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program announcements. The grant was written through the combined efforts of Roma Mayor Rogelio Ybarra, Fire Chief Garcia, City Manager Cristanto Salinas, and Grant Writer Josie Hinojosa. The ceremonial check was presented to the Chief by Congressman Henry Cuellar at the grant announcement held at the Roma Fire Station on Monday, February 11, 2008. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. ###
02.11.2008	Today, Congressman Tom Lantos, the distinguished Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committee, passed away at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Maryland. The Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) join with their colleagues in the House of Representatives in sending their condolences to his family, friends, and staff. "The passing of Tom Lantos is an enormous loss for the U.S. House of Representatives and our nation as a whole. As the only Holocaust survivor to serve in Congress, Chairman Lantos dedicated himself to fighting intolerance and standing up for individuals without a voice,” said Congressman Joe Baca, Chair of the CHC. “While we are all saddened by this loss, we remember and celebrate a life filled with great courage and love. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and his constituents at this difficult time." “Congressman Tom Lantos was a man with a supremely accurate moral compass, founding the Human Rights Caucus and serving as Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. As a Holocaust survivor, Chairman Lantos saw firsthand man’s inhumanity against his fellow man, an experience that gave him the wisdom we may never know,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar, Chair of the CHC’s International Relations Task Force. “The ideals he upheld will continue to guide me as I serve as Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’s International Relations Task Force. As we journey on a path to champion human rights around the world and democracy for all people, we will view Mr. Lantos as a symbol of hope. It is for Mr. Lantos’ wisdom and humanitarian endeavors that we are eternally grateful. Cuellar added, “He will be greatly missed by his family and by those who had the great fortune to know him. My thoughts and prayers are with the Lantos family on this day of profound loss.” Congressman Ruben Hinojosa, a CHC Member who serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee said, “Today we lost a great humanitarian who tirelessly worked to give a voice to the poor and oppressed. Chairman Lantos dedicated his life to fighting the great intolerance and inequality that still exists in so many places around the world. I am privileged to have worked under his thoughtful leadership on the Foreign Affairs Committee and witnessed his commitment to human rights and compassion for those in the shadows of society. We are a greater nation thanks to the service of this remarkable American.” Another CHC Member who serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Albio Sires, stated, “I was saddened to hear that Chairman Lantos passed this morning. While I have only known the Chairman for a brief time, I have been awed by his tireless work in Congress and on the House Foreign Affairs Committee specifically. It has been a great honor to work with such an exceptional man and colleague. Chairman Lantos’ message of peace and his dedication to human rights will continue to inspire and influence foreign policy for generations, but he will be deeply missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his family.” "The Congress, California and the country has lost a great foreign policy expert. Congressman Lantos was a true leader, friend and a mentor to me during my first year as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee,” said CHC and House Foreign Affairs Committee member Congressman Jim Costa. “His leadership will be missed in Congress and in the Bay Area. I join my colleagues, his many friends throughout the world, and the Lantos family in mourning his loss." # # # The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) is comprised of Members of Congress of Hispanic descent. Since 1976 the CHC has been addressing the needs of the Hispanic community in all areas of American life. For more information on the CHC, call (202) 225-2410. www.house.gov/baca/chc
02.05.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $148,138.73 grant will be awarded to the Floresville Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-RATE.” This federal program will provide Floresville Independent School District funding for telecommunications, Internet access and digital lines. “The Floresville Independent School District is proud to receive over $148,000 in federal funding from the E-RATE grant,” said David Vinson, Floresville Independent School District Superintendent. “Thanks to Congressman Cuellar, our voices are being heard in Washington. He is a friend of Floresville and a friend to our children.” In addition to the Priority 1 funding, Congressman Cuellar is also taking steps to reclassify Floresville High School to rural status in order to qualify the school for Priority 2 funding. Priority 2 provides funding to replace phone systems, wireless equipment, and network improvements for the neediest school districts. “With Congressman Cuellar’s help, our district and the greater Wilson County could receive upgrades to our communications infrastructure and could include broadband Internet service, which is substantially more than even this amount,” said Mr. Vinson. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As part of my commitment to enhance the education our youth receives, I am proud that I have helped secure funds for Floresville ISD,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to meet with parents, students, faculty and staff to discuss the tools needed for students’ success.” For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
02.01.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $698,044.48 grant will be awarded to the Seguin Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This federal program will provide Seguin Independent School District funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. The funding will help the district in connecting with the Distance Learning Highway in cooperation with the Region XIII Education Service Center. The grant will also provide financial assistance for maintenance and technical support for networking equipment such as routers and network switches, servers, and a filter firewall. “Seguin ISD is very pleased to have received the E-Rate funding for which we had applied,” said Dr. Irene Garza, Seguin ISD Superintendent. “We appreciate the assistance we receive from the E-Rate discounts for major initiatives such as our Wide Area Network and Internet access. E-Rate funding makes it possible for our district to achieve our goal of maintaining a comprehensive technology plan to include infrastructure, connectivity, hardware, and software.” In addition, the funding will help the district purchase PBX telephone systems at five campuses, part of an overall effort the district took on several years ago to replace the systems at each campus. “Having the upgraded telephone systems is an integral part of the district’s communication network, in part, for effective communication between teacher and parent, for efficient business practice, as well as for safety and security reasons,” said Dr. Irene Garza. “E-rate provides our schools with the very best in technological resources that are crucial to students’ future success, and I am proud that I have helped secure funds to benefit our youth in Seguin,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized the importance of a quality education and its bearing on being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
02.01.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the Stockdale Volunteer Fire Department, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $62,976 to the Fire Department. The grant was awarded to the Volunteer Fire Department to provide firefighters with wireless digital radio communications systems. The digital system will allow firefighters and law enforcement to communicate with each other and will expand the coverage area of the digital communication system to the entire county. “With the surge of new development in this once-rural area, firefighters will now be able to communicate with each other through the repeater system, a digital channel that is crucial to the effectiveness in our line of work,” said Stockdale Volunteer Fire Department Chief, Edwin Baker. “Our community has transformed from gaps of rural ranchlands to sprawling subdivisions with a tremendous growth rate. This radio system will now enable us to communicate when responding to an emergency quickly.” Congressman Cuellar says the safety and well-being of our men and women when responding to an emergency situation is a top priority of his. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, it’s important to me that our first responders—those tasked to keep our community members safe in times of emergencies—are equipped with the latest protective gear and equipment.” “When I learned what the Stockdale Volunteer Fire Department needed the money for, it was crucial that this grant be awarded,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. The grant was written by Stockdale Volunteer Fire Department Chief, Edwin Baker. The ceremonial check was presented to the Chief by Congressman Henry Cuellar at the grant announcement held at the Stockdale Fire Station on Friday, February 1, 2008. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
01.31.2008	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $223,939.25 grant will be awarded to the Hidalgo Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This federal program will provide Hidalgo Independent School District funding for internet access, telecommunication services, and basic maintenance of internal connections. The funding will provide internet data lines that host technological services, including Internet access, online database resources, online sessions and live video conferencing. Hidalgo ISD’s video conferencing technology will allow for distance learning between students and universities. “Tele-medicine” conferences, hosted by the University of Texas - Health Science Center at Houston, will be able to educate children about Diabetes prevention. “The children in our district are our priority,” said Eloy Garcia, Instructional Technology Director. “We want to offer them the best education as well as keep them healthy. Oftentimes, however, many of our students cannot afford to visit the doctor, so we are facilitating a virtual doctor’s office via tele-conference sessions made possible by this E-Rate grant.” The grant will also provide financial assistance for local and long-distance phone lines to facilitate communication with the local community and out-of-town educational resources. “It is crucial for our district staff to maintain a constant dialogue with our students’ parents, local industries, institutes of higher learning, and as well as with Texas Education Agency,” said Eloy Garcia, Instructional Technology Director. “Enhancing parent involvement and the delivery of meaningful and engaging instructional lessons with 21st century resources is key, and this grant does just that.” E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As part of my commitment to enhance the education our youth receive, I am proud that I have helped secure funds for Hidalgo ISD,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to meet with parents, students, faculty and staff to discuss the tools needed for students’ success.” For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
01.29.2008	Congressman Cuellar today joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives in support of the Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act. The legislation will help stimulate the economy, providing tax rebates to 8,600,000 households in Texas and was passed by a vote of 385-35. Congress is determined to act quickly, so that families could receive tax rebates of up to $1,200 per couple, plus $300 per child, as early as mid-May. “Families in the 28th Congressional District are facing economic struggles, and Congress has responded,” said Cuellar. “I’m proud Democrats, Republicans and the Bush Administration worked together to craft a plan that will give the economy a much-needed boost, and deliver to lower- and middle-income families and seniors the relief they need right now.” “In my district, the median household income is $36,000, and these families face rising prices in utilities, food, and health insurance, which stretch their monthly budgets to nearly the breaking point,” Cuellar said. “Nearly 39% of these households are headed by single mothers living below the poverty level, who struggle to feed and clothe their children with the limited budgets they have as the sole earner.” The bill passed today provides a recovery rebate to 117 million families, including 13 million senior citizens and 35 million families who work but make too little to pay income taxes. The broad-based stimulus package will provide tax relief of up to $600 per individual and $1,200 per married couple, plus an additional $300 per child. All told, the bill is estimated to provide an average tax rebate of $907 to Texas families, save them a total of $7.8 billion across the state, and create new jobs. “As a member of the Small Business Committee, I am pleased to see that the legislation also includes tax cuts for small businesses throughout my District,” said Cuellar. The plan doubles the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments, and encourages investments in new equipment. Additionally, the plan offers immediate tax relief for all businesses to invest in new plants and equipment by speeding up depreciation provisions, so that firms can write off an additional 50 percent for investments purchased in 2008. “Small businesses are the driving force behind our economy,” added Cuellar. “Our bipartisan bill gives these businesses incentive to expand their operations, hire new workers and help our economy get back on track.” Importantly, the bipartisan plan also includes provisions to help families avoid losing their homes to foreclosure. The bill expands affordable mortgage loan opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure through the Federal Housing Administration. To enhance credit availability in the mortgage market, the measure also includes a one-year increase in the loan limits for single family homes from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
01.25.2008	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Community Council of South Texas Head Start Program has been awarded a $1,405,678.00 million grant. The money will be used to enhance services provided to Guadalupe and Comal County children and their families. Nationwide, since 1965, Head Start has served more than 23 million children from low-income families in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the Outer Pacifics. The program provides education, health, nutrition and social services to children. In Guadalupe and Comal counties, Head Start services over three hundred children between the ages of 3 and 5 years old. The money awarded today will pay for staff and teachers’ salaries, healthcare services, such as speech therapy and oral hygiene services for kids, as well as nutritional services. Money will also go towards parental involvement activities, and will also help purchase supplies for staff development. “It’s important that we take care of our children,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With services provided by Head Start, including education, healthcare, and nutrition, our children will be better prepared and healthier as they enter Kindergarten.” Funded in part by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Head Start promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of children through education, health, nutrition, and social service programs. The program especially focuses on helping preschoolers develop early reading and math skills needed to be successful in school. At least 90 percent of children enrolled in Head Start come from families whose income is below the poverty guidelines, or families receiving public assistance. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640, or log onto our website at www.house.gov/cuellar. ###
01.25.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Wilson County Sheriff Joe Tackitt, announced Appropriations funding of $70,500 to purchase equipment to fight drug trafficking. The three Wilson County Constables will also benefit from this allocation with $2,000 each for equipment. “Our law enforcement officers must have the best equipment to fight drug traffickers,” says Congressman Cuellar. “We will continue supporting our law enforcement to ensure they are equipped with the latest technology and equipment for their safety and that of Wilson County residents. I appreciate Sheriff Tackitt’s leadership and the work of the Deputies and Constables in providing safety for residents of Wilson County.” Meanwhile, Sheriff Tackitt says these funds will be put to good use and the money is very much appreciated. “Fighting crime is something we take very seriously here in Wilson County. I am grateful to Congressman Cuellar for the federal resources provided that allow us to do our job using the latest equipment for our Deputies and Constables.” For more information on Appropriations funding or federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
01.24.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Starr County Sheriff Reymundo Guerra, announced Appropriations funding for $117,500. The funding will be used to purchase equipment to fight drug trafficking. The eight Starr County Constables will also benefit from this allocation with $2,000 each for equipment. “Our law enforcement officers must have the best equipment to fight drug traffickers,” says Congressman Cuellar. “We will continue supporting our law enforcement to ensure they are equipped with the latest technology and equipment for their safety and that of Starr County residents. I appreciate Sheriff Guerra’s leadership and the work of his Deputies and Constables in providing safety for residents of Starr County.” Meanwhile, Sheriff Guerra says these funds will be put to good use and is very much appreciated. “Fighting crime along the border is something we take very seriously here in Starr County. I am grateful to Congressman Cuellar for the federal resources provided that allow us to do our job using the latest equipment for our Deputies and Constables.” For more information on Appropriations funding or federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
01.24.2008	Congressmen Solomon P. Ortiz, Henry Cuellar and Rubén Hinojosa will welcome Congressman Steve Buyer, ranking member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, on February 5-6 to the Rio Grande Valley to visit with local veterans and tour the South Texas VA Health Care Center in Harlingen. The visit will allow Rep. Buyer, an Indiana Republican, to see the challenges faced by South Texas veterans. Rep. Buyer will participate in a public forum with veterans at the Marine Military Academy in Harlingen on February 5 from 5:30-7pm. He will then tour the South Texas VA Health Care Center in Harlingen the following morning. All veterans are encouraged to attend the public forum. “The only real solution in providing accessible and essential health care to our veterans is to provide more facilities. South Texas is growing by leaps and bounds, and we must have the proper facilities to take care of our heroes,” said Rep. Ortiz. “Reps. Hinojosa, Cuellar, and I are grateful for Rep. Buyer visiting and gaining a better perspective on the struggles and pain South Texas veterans face on a daily basis.” “For far too long, our South Texas veterans have suffered without access to the health care they deserve – in many cases having to travel hundreds of miles for services,” said Rep. Hinojosa. “Rep. Buyer’s visit will ensure that the plight of our veterans gets the attention it deserves in Washington. It is high time that these brave Texans experience a level of medical care that is worthy of their service to our nation.” “Our South Texas veterans are in dire need of better access to healthcare, and they need these services closer to their homes. The men and women who serve our country deserve the very best healthcare that we can give them,” said Rep. Cuellar. “I commend Rep. Buyer for taking time off his busy schedule to visit the Rio Grande Valley and gain first-hand knowledge of critical issues facing South Texas veterans.” Currently, veterans in the region must travel to San Antonio to the closest veterans’ hospital — a five-hour car ride that places additional stress on veterans and their families. With Rep. Buyer’s visit, South Texas will now have played host to the top ranking members of this vital committee in Congress. Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner, D-Calif., spoke to South Texas veterans, elected officials, and local leaders last August. The Veterans Affairs Committee is expected to consider legislation early in February on the construction of VA medical facilities throughout the country, making this a timely visit for Rep. Buyer. ####
01.18.2008	Today, U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar announced $195,000 for Mercy Ministries of Laredo that will assist the non-profit organization in purchasing a medical mobile van. The mobile unit will provide health care services to the underserved population in Webb County and surrounding communities. Some of the primary health care services that are included as part of Mercy Ministries’ outreach efforts in the mobile unit include: Breast and cervical cancer screening, annual physical exams for adults, blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol checks, sports physicals for students, and general medical consultations. In addition, social workers also offer nutritional and social-needs counseling. In 2007, a total 1,689 residents sought services offered in the medical mobile van. “The Texas-Mexico border historically has been underserved with medical professionals, and this new unit will help alleviate that problem,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud the efforts of Mercy Ministries in taking the lead and providing services to our citizens who need access to health care.” Sister Maria Luisa Vera, Mercy Ministries of Laredo Chief Executive Officer, said that with the money awarded today, they are on the right path in continuing to offer these much-needed services. “We are very hopeful that 2008 will be the year Mercy Ministries of Laredo has a new medical mobile van to continue its mission and commitment of providing services to members of our Webb County community that are unfunded, under funded and underserved,” the sister added. Sister Rosemary Welch, Mercy Ministries of Laredo Director of Outreach, had similar remarks: “Thank you, Congressman Henry Cuellar; thank you, Webb County; and thank you to all of you who believe and support the mission of Mercy Ministries of Laredo.” For information on federal funding, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to / Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
01.14.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today a $2.5 million combined grant and loan from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to the Falcon Rural Water Supply Corporation for improvements to the water system. The funding will come as a $1.391 million grant and a $1.134 million loan. Specifically, the federal funds will be used to replace a 130,000 gallon ground storage tank at the Salineño plant site and a 150,000 gallon elevated storage tank to replace the existing Salineño standpipe. In addition, a 150,000 gallon elevated storage tank will replace the one at the Falcon standpipe. Also, 15,000 liter feet of 12” transmission lines and 19,500 liter feet of 6” distribution lines will be installed. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help communities in need,” said Congressman Cuellar. “When a community’s heavily-used water storage tank goes down, it is imperative that city leaders do all they can to fix the problem immediately. I congratulate officials in Starr and Zapata counties for taking immediate action and for working with my office in applying for federal loan and grant money for the benefit of its residents.” “On behalf of the residents that the Falcon Water Supply services, we publicly thank Congressman Cuellar for all his assistance with this much-needed help,” said Ismael Sandoval, President of the Falcon Rural Water Supply Corporation. The money was made available through the Rural Development Office of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The terms of the loan are 40 years at a low-interest rate of 4.5 percent. For information on federal grants, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to www.cuellar.house.gov Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ##
01.14.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Jim Hogg Sheriff Erasmo “Kiko” Alracon, announced Appropriations funding for $117,500. The funding will be used to purchase equipment to fight drug trafficking. The four Jim Hogg County Constables will also benefit from this allocation with $2,000 each for equipment. “Our law enforcement officers must have the best equipment to fight drug traffickers,” says Congressman Cuellar. “We will continue supporting our law enforcement to ensure they are equipped with the latest technology and equipment for their safety and that of Jim Hogg residents. I appreciate Sheriff Alarcon’s leadership and the work of his Deputies and Constables in providing safety for residents of Jim Hogg County.” For more information on Appropriations funding or federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at /. ###
01.11.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of the United States Department of Agriculture, through the Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) Program, has awarded Wilson County $286,000 for drainage improvements as a result of last year’s heavy rains. Specifically, the dollars will be used for the overall maintenance of the drainage systems damaged by the March 2007 torrential rains that hit Wilson County. The $286,000 awarded is a partial award and the remaining request for assistance is on a waiting list for EWP Program funding. Should additional funds become available, the Wilson County disaster recovery request will be re-evaluated for technical and financial assistance. “Ensuring the safety and well being of our communities is an issue I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The money that Wilson County is receiving today is an indication of the strong working relationships between county and federal government. I would like to thank the Wilson County officials for their leadership on this flooding issue.” Wilson County officials also received the news about the funding with great excitement. “The funds provided to Wilson County through the EWP program will be used for projects implementing erosion control through placement of rock riprap to minimize washouts, therefore, insuring the roads that the citizens drive on are passable. These protective measures will reduce the threat of future damages to roads, bridges, property and utilities,” said Wilson County Judge Marvin Quinney. “I want to thank Congressman Cuellar for the strong interest he takes in the well-being of the citizens in Wilson County,” said Precinct 2 Commissioner Leonard Rotter. “Wilson County receives these funds with open arms.” For information on federal grants, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to www.cuellar.house.gov Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ##
01.11.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from Floresville Independent School District and Alamo Community College, announced that the Floresville Early College and Technology Center (FECTC) has moved one step closer to reality as F.I.S.D. received a $429,000 funding. The award was included in the ’08 Appropriations Omnibus Bill that was signed into law this past December. These funds will be directed towards construction and equipment costs for the new Center. This a major step in making Wilson County high school graduates and the workforce more competitive in the fields of science technology, engineering, agriculture, natural resources, transportation, logistics, tourism and hospitality throughout the region. This project also makes the Alamo Community College District an integral part of Floresville High School and will bring higher education to Floresville and Wilson County. “The new center will bring more options to students in Wilson County to help them succeed,” says Congressman Cuellar. “By providing them more options, the entire community will benefit for years to come as these students graduate and enter the workforce.” For more information on appropriations awards or federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
01.11.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Atascosa Sheriff Tommy Williams, announced Appropriations funding for $70,500. The funding will be used to purchase equipment to fight drug trafficking. The four Atascosa County Constables will also benefit from this allocation with $2,000 each for equipment. “Our law enforcement officers must have the best equipment to fight drug traffickers,” says Congressman Cuellar. “We will continue supporting our law enforcement to ensure they are equipped with the latest technology and equipment for their safety and that of Atascosa residents. I appreciate Sheriff Williams’ leadership and the work of his Deputies and Constables in providing safety for residents of Atascosa County.” For more information on Appropriations funding or federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at /. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
01.08.2008	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the Poteet Volunteer Fire Department, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $41,895 to the Fire Department. The grant was awarded to the Volunteer Fire Department to provide each of their men and women with at least one new set of fire-fighter bunker protective gear, including a jacket, pair of pants, gloves, helmet and boots. Congressman Cuellar says the safety and well-being of our men and women when responding to an emergency situation is a top priority of his. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, it’s important to me that our first responders—those tasked to keep our community members safe in times of emergencies—are equipped with the latest protective gear and equipment.” “When I learned what the Poteet Volunteer Fire Department needed the money for, it was crucial that this grant be awarded,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. This award is round 22 of Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program announcements. The grant was written by Poteet Volunteer Fire Department Chief, Curtis Adams. The ceremonial check was presented to the Chief by Congressman Henry Cuellar at the grant announcement held at the Poteet Fire Station on Tuesday, January 8, 2008. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. For information on Congressman Henry Cuellar, visit his website at www.cuellar.house.gov. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
01.04.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has awarded the City of Laredo a $300,000.00 grant under the Community Action for a Renewed Environment (CARE) program. The money will be equally divided over a two-year period. As part of the grant, the City of Laredo Health Department will use the money to conduct outreach to school-age children and health care providers to reduce the public’s exposure to hazardous chemicals and indoor air environmental and asthma triggers. The project also seeks to raise awareness about water quality and conservation and solid waste issues. CARE is a community-based, community driven program that builds partnerships to help the public understand and reduce toxic risks from numerous sources. “Ensuring that our community understands the dangers of toxic pollutants and accompanying dangers is an issue I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate the City of Laredo and the Health Department for working hard to secure this grant and making sure that our population is well aware of all the issues surrounding toxic pollutants.” “This is an issue that we can not take for granted and I will continue to work hard to secure that funds to address this concern continue making their way to the Gateway City,” Congressman Cuellar added. “This grant will be successful in our City,” said City of Laredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas. “It will be put to great use as we continue to educate our community about the environment.” For information on federal grants, contact Congressman Cuellar’s Office at 202-225-1640. To learn more about Congressman Cuellar, log on to / Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
01.03.2008	Congressman Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, announced the launching of the new 28th Congressional District website. The new and improved website will now facilitate immediate communication with constituents through a variety of interactive tools, informational resources, and innovative media. Congressman Cuellar, who is known for his accessibility to constituents, has met the demands required to stay connected to the people in today’s evolving digital landscape. “I am pleased to offer constituents a new means to obtain resourceful information and an additional way to communicate with my office,” said Cuellar. “As a strong believer in accessibility, it is my intention to make visitors’ online experience both efficient and appealing.” The website serves as a platform for Congressman Cuellar’s commitment to the District, and focuses on content clarity, visitor usability, interactive features, and vibrancy. • Content Clarity: Visitors can obtain clear and up-to-date content in both English and Spanish regarding Congressman Cuellar’s news releases, legislation, district profile, internships, grants alerts, federal agency assistance, and upcoming visits. • Visitor Usability: The architecture of the site enhances visitor usability by enabling constituents to locate items expediently on the homepage. The homepage’s layout contains a central segment designated for the top news stories and most recent video footage. The center is flanked by two sidebars that offer categories with an automatic drop-down of subcategories. To crown these three segments is a slideshow of 15-20 recent photos of Congressman Cuellar in action. As visitors navigate within the site, the category sidebars continue to frame every page to serve as a table of contents and a point of reference. • Interactive Features: A variety of interactive features have been implemented to encourage constituents’ participation in the legislative process. Constituents can opt to sign up to receive e-newsletters; take a survey of the current “hot” issue; view Congressman Cuellar’s floor speeches, interviews and monthly cable shows; view an interactive google map delineating the district which also pinpoints the local offices and project sites; submit requests for flags flown over the Capitol, Washington tours, and meetings with Congressman Cuellar. • Vibrancy: A vibrant presentation of all these aspects imbue the website to paint a clear picture of Congressman Cuellar and what he stands for. Photographs of Congressman Cuellar accompany press releases from press conferences and events. The photo gallery currently contains over 100 photo albums of coffees, events, meetings, speeches and grant announcements from 2007. The video center also contains thumbnail pictures of screen shots for each recording. “Improving our website will serve a wide spectrum of audiences—from those in need of assistance with casework and federal agencies, to those who wish to voice their opinion on legislation, to students interested in internships or financial aid,” Congressman Cuellar said. Congressman Cuellar continues to regard accessibility as a priority and endorses technology as a means to reach out to his constituencies. “This is an exciting time to incorporate today’s technological advances in a way that gets people involved at the federal level. I am committed to making a strong, lasting connection with the people in the 28th District,” Congressman concluded. The new web address for Texas’ 28th Congressional District is /. If you have any questions or suggestions, please contact web manager Yolanda Urrabazo at 202-225-1640 Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
12.20.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Guadalupe County Sheriff’s Department has received funding through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) made possible by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Guadalupe County Sheriff’s Office is one of 32 recipients for the StarWitness Video Pro Image Processing equipment, granted in the amount of $26,900. “The rural communities in Guadalupe County will benefit greatly from these funds. I am pleased to see that this specialized commercial equipment will strengthen the daily operations of Guadalupe County’s law enforcement agencies," said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the need for technology in protecting our communities, especially rural regions. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” The Guadalupe County Sheriff’s Office will receive the StarWitness Video Pro Imaging Processing to enhance thermal imaging, night vision, and video surveillance equipment. Of the 3,709 CEDAP applications submitted this year, only 1,853 were accepted based on law enforcement agencies who demonstrated the need to improve their capability and capacity to respond to a major critical incident. Guadalupe County Grants Writer Thomas Bealley emphasized the county’s need for this equipment. “This equipment will enhance the footage we capture on video tapes for business and civilian surveillance. Because we utilize video tapes that are reused over the years, it is imperative to upgrade the quality of footage in order to better identify people committing a crime. With this technology, numerous cases can now be solved,” said Bealley. With the technological equipment, training is also provided in accordance with the Homeland Security Strategy. State Administrative Agencies (SAA) provide training at the time technologies are delivered and transferred under the program. The training is a prerequisite to receipt of equipment and helps ensure that the systems and devices awarded will be utilized fully and correctly. The Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness. Congressman Cuellar is proud to serve on the Homeland Security committee to play a role in obtaining grants for the 28th District of Texas. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
12.20.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Mission Police Department has received funding through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) made possible by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Mission Police Department is one of 366 recipients for the XOA Series Portable Video Surveillance System equipment, granted in the amount of $11,500. “The rural communities in Mission will benefit greatly from these funds. I am pleased to see that this specialized commercial equipment will strengthen the daily operations of Mission’s law enforcement agencies," said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the need for technology in protecting our communities, especially rural regions. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” The Mission Police Department will receive the XOA Series Portable Video Surveillance System to enhance thermal imaging, night vision, and video surveillance equipment. Of the 3,709 CEDAP applications submitted this year, only 1,853 were accepted based on law enforcement agencies who demonstrated the need to improve their capability and capacity to respond to a major critical incident. With the technological equipment, training is also provided in accordance with the Homeland Security Strategy. State Administrative Agencies (SAA) provide training at the time technologies are delivered and transferred under the program. The training is a prerequisite to receipt of equipment and helps ensure that the systems and devices awarded will be utilized fully and correctly. The Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness. Congressman Cuellar is proud to serve on the Homeland Security committee as he plays an instrumental role in obtaining grants for the 28th District of Texas. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
12.20.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Webb County Sheriff’s Department has received funding through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) made possible by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Webb County Sheriff’s Department is one of 86 recipients in the nation for the Detection/Deterrence Search and Surveillance System equipment, granted in the amount of $8,499. “The rural communities throughout Webb County will benefit greatly from these funds. I am pleased to see that this specialized commercial equipment will strengthen the daily operations of Webb County Sheriff’s Office," said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the need for technology in protecting our communities, especially rural regions. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” The Webb County Sheriff’s Department will receive the Detection/Deterrence Search and Surveillance System to deter and detect criminal activity before an incident occurs. The S&S System will strengthen detection and response through its search and surveillance features, including its mobility, its ruggedness, its submersibility, its covert illumination feature, and audio listening features. The equipment will also be used for daily all-hazards operations, such as preparations for and response to disasters caused by flood, storm or other natural causes. It will also be utilized in the interdiction of illegal narcotics, human trafficking, & other illicit cargo trafficking. Of the 3,709 CEDAP applications submitted this year, only 1,853 were accepted based on law enforcement agencies who demonstrated the need to improve their capability and capacity to respond to a major critical incident. The Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness. Congressman Cuellar is proud to serve on the Homeland Security committee as he plays an instrumental role in obtaining grants for the 28th District of Texas. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
12.20.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Zapata Sheriff’s Office has received funding through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP) made possible by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Zapata Sheriff’s Office is one of 366 recipients for the TacSight SE35 Advanced Thermal Imager for Law Enforcement equipment, granted in the amount of $11,794. “The rural communities in Zapata will benefit greatly from these funds. I am pleased to see that this specialized commercial equipment will strengthen the daily operations of Zapata’s law enforcement agencies," said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the need for technology in protecting our communities, especially rural regions. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” The Zapata Sheriff’s Office t will receive the TacSight SE35 Advanced Thermal Imager to enhance thermal imaging, night vision, and video surveillance equipment. Of the 3,709 CEDAP applications submitted this year, only 1,853 were accepted based on law enforcement agencies who demonstrated the need to improve their capability and capacity to respond to a major critical incident. With the technological equipment, training is also provided in accordance with the Homeland Security Strategy. State Administrative Agencies (SAA) provide training at the time technologies are delivered and transferred under the program. The training is a prerequisite to receipt of equipment and helps ensure that the systems and devices awarded will be utilized fully and correctly. “I thank Sheriff Gonzalez and his deputies for taking the necessary steps that aim to secure our communities,” Cuellar said. The Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness. Congressman Cuellar is proud to serve on the Homeland Security committee as he plays an instrumental role in obtaining grants for the 28th District of Texas. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
12.19.2007	Today the House passed the Omnibus Appropriations bill that contains language authored by Congressman Henry Cuellar calling for an assessment of the infrastructure needs of American land ports of entry including several within Cuellar’s 28th District of Texas. The language was taken from H.R. 2431, a bill Congressman Cuellar introduced earlier in this session of Congress. Special provisions in the Cuellar bill now contained in the Omnibus package include a “Port of Entry Infrastructure Assessment Study” to be up dated no later then January 31of every other year. The study was prepared by the United States Customs Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and will be updated by Department of Homeland Security and the General Services Administration (G.S.A.), and then reviewed by the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border protection, in consultation with the G.S.A., the office of Management and Budget, the Secretary of DHS and the affected state and local agencies. Needs that will be looked at include: 1) infrastructure and technology projects to enhance border security and facilitate the flow of legitimate commerce, 2) the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to achieve its mission and to support operations, 3) the ability to fulfill security requirements, and 4) facilitate trade across the borders of the United States. Congressman Cuellar, who worked closely with Congressman Dennis R. Rehberg (R-MT) to sponsor the original bill, understands how important decreasing “wait times” is in facilitating commerce and tourism between the U.S. and Mexico, while maintaining the highest level of security along the border. “It is imperative that we reduce the wait times at our borders and provide the resources they need to be fully operational,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As a native of the border, I know firsthand how essential it is to reduce wait times at the border to bolster trade and tourism.” Once the assessment is complete, the list of infrastructure and technology improvement projects will be forwarded to the Administrator of General Services for implementation in the order of priority assigned to each project. In the upcoming legislative session, Congressman Cuellar will also work to provide the necessary funding to increase the number of Customs Officers working at international bridges. Cuellar’s provisions also call for a National Land Border Security Plan that will be prepared with the consultation of affected federal, sate and local law enforcement agencies and private entities that are involved in international trade to provide the best security for the land ports. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
12.17.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Congressman John Culberson (R-TX) announced a $4.9 million appropriations earmark awarded to the nineteen Texas border sheriffs. These funds will be used to provide law enforcement with increased resources that will improve safety for border residents. Border security will effectively protect the entire country, translating to a safer border and increased national security. “I will continue to work in a bipartisan approach to bring additional resources to border law enforcement to increase border security,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I want to thank Congressmen Culberson, Chairman Alan Mollohan and the other Congressmen for working together to make this possible.” “America needs boots on the ground to protect our Southern border from armed and dangerous criminals, violent gang members, drug smugglers and potential terrorists,” commented Congressman Culberson. “We have seen the best response to local emergencies is providing local officials with the resources they need to do the job.” This 2007 appropriations earmark for $4.9 million is in addition to the 2005 appropriated funds of $5 million, also awarded to the Texas border sheriffs, bringing the total amount awarded to almost $10 million. Congressmen Cuellar and Culberson are both determined to continue fighting for more resources for law enforcement along the border. Both also commend the efforts of past chairman of the Texas Border Coalition, Sigi Gonzalez, Zapata County Sheriff, for his dedicated efforts in securing extra funding for the border. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
12.13.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded the City of Laredo a $44,608 grant for the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program. As one of the Housing Choice Voucher programs, the FSS program promotes the development of local strategies that enable families to achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency. “Helping those less fortunate is the essence of a community, and this HUD grant exemplifies that goal,” said Cuellar. “With HUD’s funding, local agencies can work together to move families in the right direction.” Family Self-Sufficiency, a HUD program, encourages communities to coordinate the use of assistance with public and private resources. Public Housing Agencies (PHA) work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive plan that gives FSS family members the skills and experience to progress. The FSS program also offers services, including child care, transportation, education, job training and employment counseling, substance/alcohol abuse treatment or counseling, household skill training, homeownership counseling. “I am pleased to see that so many families will now be able to receive services that encourage and guide them as they make the changes to live financially-independent lives,” said Cuellar. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
12.13.2007	Henry Cuellar announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced the awarding of five federal grants totaling $230,335 to fund separate programs in the City of Mission, the City of Pharr, and the County of Hidalgo. The Family Self-Sufficiency program and the Resident Opportunities for Self-Sufficiency program, respectively, aim to help families achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency. As one of the Housing Choice Voucher programs, the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program promotes the development of local strategies that enable families to achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency. HUD’s funding for the FSS program awarded $61,409 to The City of Mission, $59,010 to the City of Pharr, and $36,724 to the County of Hidalgo. FSS, a HUD program, encourages communities to coordinate the use of assistance with public and private resources. Public Housing Agencies (PHA) work with welfare agencies, schools, businesses, and other local partners to develop a comprehensive plan that gives FSS family members the skills and experience to progress. The FSS program also offers services, including child care, transportation, education, job training and employment counseling, substance/alcohol abuse treatment or counseling, household skill training, homeownership counseling. “Helping those less fortunate is the essence of a community, and this HUD grant exemplifies that goal,” said Cuellar. “With HUD’s funding, local agencies can work together to move families in the right direction.” Resident Opportunities for Self-Sufficiency (ROSS), another HUD program, promotes the delivery and coordination of supportive services that enable families attain economic self-sufficiency and elderly residents with disabilities to continue to live independently. HUD’s funding for the ROSS program awarded $35,000 to the City of Mission and $38,192 to the County of Hidalgo. Funding for the HUD programs totals $230,335, which will empower residents throughout Hidalgo County in becoming economically self-sufficient. “I am pleased to see that so many families will now be able to receive services that will benefit their families and encourage them to live financially-independent lives,” said Cuellar. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business,and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities. ###
12.07.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the McAllen, Edinburg, Hidalgo, Mission, Pharr and Weslaco in the U.S. and Reynosa and Rio Bravo in Mexico announced the awarding of an Environmental Protection Agency grant in the amount of $50,000 to the Fire Department. The City of McAllen Fire Department will use the funds to update its current sister-city plan with Reynosa to include a risk analysis and incorporate the cities mentioned above. In addition to updating their plan, the Fire Department will provide training to area first responders and conduct bi-national exercises to test the updated plan. “We now live in a post 9-11 time when its imperative that our cities and counties are prepared with a plan in cases of catastrophic disasters,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “With these funds, more cities along the border will be included in the overall plan, together with sister city partners in Mexico.” The City of McAllen will partner with first responders from the Cities of Edinburg, Hidalgo, Mission, Pharr, and Weslaco on the United States side of the border through inter-local agreements and with first responders from the Cities of Reynosa and Rio Bravo in Mexico. The goal of the project is to update and expand the scope of the McAllen-Reynosa Sister City Plan by completing four primary objectives: 1) to conduct meetings with key individuals on both sides of the border to discuss the Plan for McAllen-Reynosa; 2) to conduct bi-national exercises to test the updated Plan; 3) to conduct a risk analysis of the sister city area; and 4) to train area fist responders. Hidalgo County is one of the fastest growing areas of the United States and the juncture of one of the primary trade corridors between Mexico and the United States. The Pharr International Bridge is one of the busiest cargo ports of entry from Mexico into the United States, with an average of 110 transports carrying hazardous materials crossing from Mexico into the U.S. every day. Ninety percent of those transports carry flammable liquids and the other 10% carry hazardous materials and waste. These trucks must travel on busy streets and highways through cities and heavily populated areas carrying highly flammable, toxic, and potentially lethal hazardous waste products. As of April 2005, there were 136 maquila plants operating in Reynosa, Mexico. According to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), “Maquila plants are subject to a complex system of waste-management laws and regulatory systems in the U. S.-Mexico border region. The waste produced in maquila manufacturing operations must be repatriated to the country where the raw materials originated. Therefore, wastes produced from U. S. materials must be transported back to the U. S. for treatment and disposal” (source: Border Pollution Prevention and Maquiladoras, 2005). Hazardous chemicals and waste are also transported south into Mexico through Hidalgo County. Although there are four municipalities in the county that have hazmat trained personnel, equipment, and response capabilities, there has never been a multi-jurisdictional region-wide hazardous materials response exercise to test the combined resources of all jurisdictions in responding to a large-scale hazardous materials disaster. These granted funds will now allow this to take place and ensure the success of the Plan if implemented in cases of chemical hazard spills and/or natural disasters. For more information on the Plan, contact Carla M. Rodriguez, M.A., Grant Administration Director for the City of McAllen at (956) 681-1030. For more information on federal grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
12.01.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the Cibolo Volunteer Fire Department, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $75,050 to the Fire Department. The grant was awarded to the Volunteer Fire Department to provide each of their men and women with at least one new set of fire-fighter bunker protective gear, including a jacket, pair of pants, gloves, helmet and boots. Congressman Cuellar says the safety and well-being of our men and women when responding to an emergency situation is a top priority of his. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, it’s important to me that our first responders—those tasked to keep our community members safe in times of emergencies—are equipped with the latest protective gear and equipment.” “When I learned what the Cibolo Volunteer Fire Department needed the money for, it was crucial that this grant be awarded,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program is an important component of the Administration’s larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards. Since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. The grant was written by Lt. Carl Berghofer of the Cibolo Volunteer Fire Department. Assistant Chief Kirk Timke and Volunteer Board Secretary/Treasurer Steve Liparoto accepted the check from Congressman Cuellar at the grant announcement held at La Tortillita Restaurant in Cibolo this past Saturday. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
11.30.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced the reauthorization of the Head Start for School Readiness Act, which gives young children the tools they need to succeed in school. The passage of this crucial legislation authorizes $7.4 billion for FY 2008, $7.7 billion for FY 2009, $7.9 billion for FY 2010, and similar sums as may be necessary in FY 2011 and FY 2012. “The reauthorization of the Head Start program will have a tremendous impact on the lives of thousands of children in this area,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Providing our children with the necessary tools they need in their early stages of life is crucial in their developmental stage. A message has been sent that securing the well-being of our children is an issue that we take very seriously in Congress.” This bipartisan legislation improves Head Start teacher and classroom quality, strengthens the program’s focus on readiness, expands access to Head Start for more children, and ensures that centers are well run. In addition, it boasts coordination between Head Start and state and local programs, and improves comprehensive services that help children by helping their families. This legislation also includes an amendment by Congressman Cuellar that asks for an assessment to determine progress made by limited English proficient children. “This is important because it allows for Head Start service providers to be more consistent in their instruction,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Educators will learn from the practices of their colleagues and will share ideas and make informed decisions.” Head Start, which started in 1965, is a comprehensive child development and early education program for low-income children up to five years of age. The regular Head Start program serves children from three to five and the Early Head Start program serves infants and toddlers up to age three. Through its programs, Head Start serves more than 3,100 children in the Laredo area and more than one million across the nation.“On behalf of all the staff, parents, and children of the Webb County Head Start program, we want to express our appreciation to Congressman Henry Cuellar for supporting this legislation. Without the help of legislators like Congressman Cuellar, who is a well known champion of children's programs and education in general, Head Start would not exist,” said Aliza Oliveros, Director of the Webb County Head Start Program. Mary Capello, Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Migrant Council (TMC), shared similar thoughts: “After seven years of working with Federal Legislators from the eight states we serve and the different organizations involved in Head Start programs, I am ecstatic that the Head Start for School Readiness Act has been passed. As a Head Start super grantee, TMC looks forward to continuing the same excellent services that have been provided to children and their families for the last 36 years and creating early education experiences that will last a lifetime.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
11.29.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $401,000 loan, and awarded a $106,000 grant to the City of Jourdanton for the drilling of a new water supply well in an effort to provide adequate water to its citizens. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help communities in need,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D) Laredo. “When a city’s heavily-used water well goes down, it is imperative that city leaders do all they can to fix the problem immediately. I congratulate Jourdanton Mayor Larry Pryor for taking immediate action in applying for federal loan and grant money for the benefit of Jourdanton residents.” The money awarded will in part be used to reimburse the city’s expenditures in drilling the new water well, as well as investing in the new system. The new well will be drilled approximately 2,100 feet deep with a 14 inch steel casing, 10 inch blank pipe and 8 inch screen and liner including concrete foundation and discharge well piping, valves, flow meter and fittings. The money for the water well was made available through the Rural Development Office of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The terms of the loan are 40 years at a low interest rate of 4.5 percent. The city serves a population of 4,005. For information on federal grants, Congressman Cuellar invites you to contact his Washington office at (202) 225-1640 or (toll free) 1-877-780-0028.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
11.28.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced a one million dollar funding initiative that will establish a Joint Operations Training Center in Laredo. The program will be administered through a cooperative effort between Texas A&M International University and Laredo Community College. Both entities will develop the training curriculum. “The safety of our men and women who patrol the frontlines of our borders is imperative,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo). “We cannot expect our National Guardsmen and other law enforcement officers to assist in border security efforts without the appropriate training; therefore I am pleased to have secured from the Department of Defense this appropriations of one million dollars that will be used to kick-off the start of the training program.” In May of 2006, National Guard forces were assigned to “provide mobile communications, transportation, logistics, training, and construction support to the U.S. Border Patrol”. The intent was for National Guard troops to assist our Border Patrol in their efforts to secure our border. With these funds, troops, agents and officers will be better trained when placed on the frontlines to supplement border security efforts. Initially, the money will be used as seed money to provide the facility and course development of the program. Law enforcement officials will then recommend topics for training courses relevant to their supplemental border security initiatives. Some topics already suggested include: understanding the roles and responsibilities of the National Guard and other law enforcers in supporting the Border Patrol; and courses providing specific knowledge of the border region and providing the students with the skills, knowledge, and abilities to support the Border Patrol in their activities. “As the security of border improves with new initiatives such as increased number of Border Patrol agents, Operation Streamline, and improved technical resources along the border, there will be new efforts to circumvent our increasingly secure border, and we envision being able to provide the students with the intelligence to respond to the new emerging threats,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
11.16.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Frio County has been awarded a Colonia-planning grant in the amount of $52,750. These funds were made available from the Community Development Grant Block Program of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and will aid in planning efforts throughout the county. “I am pleased to see local entities taking the necessary steps to secure these funds. In order to see progress and expansion at the local level, it is crucial to make sure resources like this grant are sought. I am dedicated to working with you to bring about real, lasting solutions to the challenges presented in these communities, ” said Cuellar. The funds from The Community Development Block Grant will be used to prepare a county-wide colonia comprehensive plan. Plans will be developed to aid in problem solving and resource utilization for a predominantly low to moderate income population occupying colonias in Frio County. Local contractors will plan efforts for housing, infrastructure, economic and aesthetic environments. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that Frio County benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. To find out more about available federal grants, please contact the Office of Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
11.16.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that La Salle County has been awarded a Colonia-planning grant in the amount of $40,000. These funds were made available from the Community Development Grant Block Program of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and will aid in planning efforts throughout the county. “I am pleased to see local entities taking the necessary steps to secure these funds. In order to see progress and expansion at the local level, it is crucial to make sure resources like this grant are sought. I am dedicated to working with you to bring about real, lasting solutions to the challenges presented in these communities, ” said Cuellar. The funds from The Community Development Block Grant will be used to prepare a county-wide colonia comprehensive plan. Plans will be developed to aid in problem solving and resource utilization for a predominantly low to moderate income population occupying colonias in Frio County. Local contractors will plan efforts for housing, infrastructure, economic and aesthetic environments. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that La Salle County benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. To find out more about available federal grants, please contact the Office of Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
11.12.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the veterans of Jim Hogg, LaSalle, Webb and Zapata counties will have increased local access to quality healthcare services. As a result of Cuellar’s collaboration with the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA), local veterans’ organizations and his colleagues in Washington, D.C., the VA will be offering new healthcare options to the veterans of South Texas. “As I met with veterans from my district, I was hearing two things: that they needed better access to healthcare and that they needed services closer to home. The men and women who serve our country deserve the very best healthcare that we can give them. I commend the VA for taking the steps to provide our veterans with quality local healthcare,” said Cuellar. Currently, limited services are offered and many veterans have to travel to San Antonio for regular appointments as well as specialized services. With the new and enhanced services offered locally by the VA starting this month, the veterans in these four counties will be able to receive, among other services: physical and occupational therapy, prosthetics/orthotics, CAT scans, MRIs, dental and audioloygy services, and palliative radiation oncology. Beginning in December 2008, the following services will be offered locally: pulmonary, urology and cardiology. In addition, dermatology, opthamology, endocrinology, and PTSD services will also be offered. “As a Congressman, improving the lives of our veterans is a responsibility I take very seriously, and I am proud that we were able to facilitate these much-needed improvements to local healthcare options,” said Cuellar. This partnership between local health providers and the VA is the first of its kind in the nation. If the program proves to be a success, the VA could choose to implement it across the nation. Please view our Veterans' Services chart. For more information on the enhanced health care program, Veterans can call the VA Outpatient Clinic at (956) 523-7850. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
11.09.2007	Today Congressman Cuellar voted to restore tax fairness to millions of American families by voting in favor of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief. This legislation protects 23 million middle-class families from being forced to pay the alternative minimum tax. The bill, H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, ensures that no additional taxpayers pay the AMT this year while also extending popular tax credits and deductions that expire at the end of the year. In addition to the AMT relief, H.R. 3996 would also provide a change in refundable child credit, by increasing the eligibility for the refundable child tax credit in 2008 and making it refundable to the extent of 15 percent of the taxpayer’s earned income; provide an additional standard deduction for Sate and local real property taxes paid or accrued by taxpayers who claim the regular standard deduction; and extend for one year the election to take an itemized deduction for State and local general sales taxes in lieu of the itemized deduction permitted for state and local income taxes, for states like Texas who do not have income taxes and thus, their residents do not benefit from the State and local tax deduction. “While there were concerns about revenue raising provisions in the bill, this legislation is preventing the AMT from unfairly reaching into the pockets of middle class families in my district,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Tax fairness can be achieved in a fiscally responsible way. “If I had not supported this legislation, the number of people who pay AMT in Southwest Texas would have increased by 1500% in 2007. “1,800 of my constituents were protected from paying AMT. This legislation will provide relief to homeowners and students by extending the current deductions for college tuition and allowing homeowners to deduct up to $500 of property taxes in addition to their standard deduction.” H.R. 3996 will prevent the AMT from unfairly reaching into the pockets of middle-income families, while also extending tax credits and deductions that will benefit a wide array of Americans and the American economy. The Alternative Minimum Tax has been in effect since 1969. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
11.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Webb County Head Start Program has been awarded a $7.8 million grant. The money will be used to enhance services provided to Webb County children and their families. Nationwide, since 1965, Head Start has served more than 23 million children from low-income families in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the Outer Pacifics. The program provides education, health, nutrition and social services to children. Here locally, Webb County’s Head Start program services over 11-hundred children between the ages of 3 and 5 years old. The money awarded today will pay for staff and teachers’ salaries, healthcare services, such as speech therapy and oral hygiene services for kids, as well as nutritional services. Money will also go towards parental involvement activities, and to help purchase supplies for staff development. “It’s important that we take care of our children,” said Congressman Cuellar. “With services provided by Head Start, including education, healthcare, and nutrition, our children will be better prepared and healthier as they enter Kindergarten.” Funded in part by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Webb County’s Head Start promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of children through education, health, nutrition, and social service programs. The program especially focuses on helping preschoolers develop early reading and math skills needed to be successful in school. At least 90 percent of children enrolled in Head Start must come from families whose income is below the poverty guidelines, or families receiving public assistance. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640.
10.27.2007	Hundreds of South Texas Veterans spent their Saturday morning receiving complimentary health care services and enrolling with the Veterans Administration. The 2007 Veterans Health and Enrollment Fair was held in Rio Grande City with several health care and informational booths providing services for Veterans. The event was hosted by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), with medical services provided by Dr. Tony Falcon and Starr County Hospital. More importantly, Veterans attending the Fair were given the opportunity to enroll in the VA system. With accurate numbers of Veterans living in South Texas, Congressman Cuellar says more services can be provided closer to home. “In order for health care and other services to be provided closer to home, the number of Veterans need to reflect a population demand,” said Cuellar. “As the numbers grow, I’m confident we will see more services offered to Veterans in South Texas.” One issue Veterans living in South Texas have been working with Congressman Cuellar on is the creation of a Veterans hospital in the region. By showing higher numbers of Veterans living in South Texas, the VA would see the demand for a local Veterans hospital, or the creation of partnerships with local health providers. Earlier this year, at Cuellar’s invitation, Congressman Bob Filner, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, visited South Texas to hear concerns brought forth by area Veterans on the need for a healthcare facility closer to home. Through that visit, the VA Authorization Bill, which is expected to pass in Congress, will move South Texas forward in the development of medical services closer to home. Congressman Cuellar is co-sponsoring this piece of legislation. For more information on registering, Veterans can call Cuellar’s office in McAllen at (956) 631-4826. ###Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business,and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
10.26.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Department of Health and Human Service’s Office of Head Start awarded a $14.5 million grant to the Texas Migrant Council (TMC) for the expansion of the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program. The Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program is one of many programs that the TMC administers to those living in South Texas. TMC, which is also known as the New America Corporation, is headquartered in Laredo, but has a presence in seven additional states, including: Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Iowa, Nevada and Oklahoma. The program nationwide serves 8,000 children and 16,000 parents. Here locally, the program includes 2500 children, but with this additional funding, the program hopes to increase its children enrollment by 1,000. “The well-being of our children is at stake,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will see to it that more children can enroll in the Head Start Program and thus be better prepared for elementary school.” Funded in part by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the TMC promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of children through education, health, nutrition, and social service programs. Parents who have children enrolled in TMC programs are also eligible to receive services from the organization. “On behalf of the Texas Migrant Counsel and the many families we serve, I thank Congressman Cuellar for his continued support our educational programs,” said Mary Capello, Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Migrant Council. “These programs will benefit families across the United States.” This $14.5 million installment is the fourth and final payment of the $60 million awarded this year to the TMC. The TMC has been in existence since 1971. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
10.19.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with Roma Independent School District officials, announced the awarding of two grants totaling more than half a million dollars. The money will be used to build the infrastructure needed to place internet connections in each classroom of Roma I.S.D’s two newest schools. Specifically, the new elementary school and the new middle school will each have classrooms with at least two internet-wired computers in them, with future capabilities of an additional three internet-wired computers. Furthermore, each school will host computers labs throughout the campus, with the middle school building hosting an additional computer lab in the library for research purposes. Congressman Cuellar says this unprecedented award will go a long way in providing students at Roma I.S.D. with the same state-of-the-art opportunities given to other students in larger cities. “To succeed in today’s world of technological advantages, students in our part of the state all need to have equal opportunities,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I applaud school district officials, especially Leticia Cadena, for their work in applying for this available money and placing the students of Roma ISD first in making sure they have all the resources available to ensure educational success.” The middle school, which was granted $293,979.24, is slated to open January, 2009, and will be called Ramiro Barrera Middle School after long-time educator and once high school principal of Roma High School. Meanwhile, the elementary school, awarded $260,083.31, will open its doors August, 2008, and will be named Roel and Celia Saenz Elementary. Mr. Saenz spent many years at Roma I.S.D. as a math teacher and business manager for the school district, while Mrs. Saenz taught for many years and served as a librarian. She currently serves on the Roma I.S.D. school board. For more information on federal grants, feel free to contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 1-877-780-0028. ###
10.19.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development Housing Program and officials from Starr County, announced the awarding of a grant totaling $250,000. The money will be used to rehabilitate 50 individual houses owned and occupied by very-low and low income individuals in Starr County. Congressman Cuellar says this unprecedented award will go a long way in providing families with better living conditions. “Living in a safe and healthy home is my goal for each of my constituents in Congressional District 28,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Any time money is available for upgrades in homes that truly need repairs, it is my hope that county officials will apply and receive the funding. Today, I am pleased that Starr County officials, especially Starr County Judge Eloy Vera, saw the need for the funds, and quickly applied.” Officials from the USDA Housing Program say their programs are designed to strengthen the economy and infrastructure of rural areas. It is their hope to improve the quality of life in rural America. “USDA Rural Development is very pleased to be able to provide housing rehabilitation founding for rural Texans,” said Scooter Brockette, USDA Rural Development Housing Program Director. “It is our goal to ensure rural residents are afforded an opportunity to live in decent housing that meets health and safety standards and provides the benefits of energy efficient features.” County officials say they’ll use the grant money for repairs that will correct health and safety hazards found in these homes. The money will also be used for structural improvement and/or additions to the homes if overcrowding is a factor. Removing health hazards, such as deteriorated painting or siding, and making any modifications to the home for handicapped accessibility is also a priority. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business,and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
10.15.2007	If serving our country is a career path you or someone you know has chosen to pursue, why not earn a four year degree at the same time and then graduate as an officer? Congressman Henry Cuellar is now accepting applications for nominations to the United States Service Academies. Congressman Cuellar will nominate outstanding individuals hoping to seek a career as an officer in one of the country’s armed service branches. Four year service academies include the Military Academy (Army), Air Force Academy, Naval Academy and Merchant Marine Academy. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the United Sates armed services for a minimum of 5 years upon graduation. Congressman Cuellar will consider outstanding young men and women from the 28th Congressional District of Texas. Nominations are made on a strictly competitive basis. Therefore, Congressman Cuellar has established an Academy Nominations Selection Committee that will determine nominations based solely on the candidate's qualifications. Candidates are judged on their scholastic achievements, leadership performance, athletic participation, community service, and motivation. “Attending one of the United States Service Academies and then graduating as an officer in one of our armed service branches is one of the most admirable achievements a student can attain,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The United States demands a great commitment from its service men and women and it is reassuring to know so many remarkable young people are eager to serve their country.” If you or someone you know wishes to be considered for a nomination to attend any of the service academies, please contact Jennifer Dillard at (830) 401-0457 or 1-877-780-0028. Completed applications must be turned in no later than October 31st, 2007. Applicants will be interviewed in early December by the Service Academy Board for the 28th District. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business,and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
10.13.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from the Pleasanton Volunteer Fire Department, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $80 thousand to the Department. The grant was awarded to the Volunteer Fire Department to enhance communications between fire fighters when called to an emergency situation. With the grant money, Department officials will purchase four antenna dishes that will be placed in strategic areas in and around the county to enhance communications equipment--something officials say is crucial in keeping residents and volunteer firefighters safe. Meanwhile, Congressman Cuellar says the money comes at a time when this part of Texas is experiencing a steady annual growth in population, so safety and timeliness in an emergency situation is a top priority.“The Volunteer Fire Department has a primary response area of 186 square miles,” said Congressman Cuellar, Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “This area has seen an influx in new residential development due to the construction of many new subdivisions and therefore, it is imparative that our first responders are given all the resource available to keep them and the citizens of this area safe.” Grants under the Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency, in coorperation with the U.S. Fire Administration, are very competitive and hard to obtain. But since 2004, AFG has provided almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
10.12.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with the City of Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas, announced the awarding of four federal grants totaling more than $5.1 million to fund four separate programs in Laredo. U.S. Housing and Urban Development awarded $12,841.00 to the American Dream Down-Payment Initiative (ADDI); $3,711,664.00 to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG); $160,079.00 to the Emergency Shelter Grant program; and $1,290,876.00 to the HOME program.The American Dream Down-Payment Initiative (ADDI) ($12,841.00) promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down-payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households. ADDI helps low-income, first-time homebuyers with the biggest hurdle to homeownership: down-payment and closing costs. The Community Development Block Grants ($3,711.664.00) provide funds to local governments to ensure that residents have decent affordable housing and to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities. The Emergency Shelter Grant ($160,079.00) program provides annual funds to local and private entities to improve the quality and number of local emergency homeless shelters. The HOME program ($1,290,876.00) helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low—and very low—income families by providing grants to local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. Congressman Cuellar says this unprecedented award will go a long way in providing families with a roof over their heads. “Owning a home is the American Dream and a goal most people work hard to achieve,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will give families the opportunity to live in a safe and healthy environment.”Mayor Raul G. Salinas said these entitlement funds from HUD are vital to the community, so that the City of Laredo Community Development Department can continue to provide funding for the various programs that impact the city’s poorest neighborhoods.“Congressman Cuellar understands this and is in Washington fighting to protect these dollars so that Laredoans can have a chance of achieving the American dream,” Salinas added.For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640. ###
10.12.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), Congressman Charlie Gonzalez (D-San Antonio), Congressman Ciro Rodriguez (D-Laredo) and Congressman Lamar Smith (R-San Antonio) announced the awarding of eight federal grants totaling more than $25.5 million to fund five separate programs in Bexar County and San Antonio. U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) awarded $9,514.00 to Bexar County and $112,715.00 to San Antonio for the American Dream Down-Payment Initiative (ADDI); $1,782,661.00 to Bexar County and $14,830,969.00 to San Antonio for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG); $613,992.00 to Bexar County and $6,557,639.00 to San Antonio for the HOME program; $640,253.00 to San Antonio for the Emergency Shelter Grants program; and $972,000.00 to San Antonio for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program. The total of all grants is $25,519,743.00 million to fund services in Bexar County and San Antonio. The American Dream Down-Payment Initiative (ADDI) promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down-payment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households. ADDI helps low-income, first-time homebuyers with the biggest hurdle to homeownership: down-payment and closing costs. The Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) provide funds to local governments to ensure that residents have decent affordable housing and to provide services to the most vulnerable in our communities. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low—and very low—income families by providing grants to local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. The Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) program provides annual grants to state, local and private entities to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program provides housing assistance and related supportive services to local government, states and non-profit organizations for projects that benefits low-income persons medically diagnosed with HIV/AIDS. Congressman Cuellar says this unprecedented award will go a long way in providing families with a roof over their heads. “Owning a home is the American Dream and a goal most people work hard to achieve,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These funds will give families the opportunity to live in a safe and healthy environment.” “These federal resources will help many Bexar County families achieve their dreams of both living in a healthy household and eventually owning their own home,” said Congressman Charlie Gonzalez. “The grant’s commendable approach towards achieving these goals will provide a significant boost to the local housing market and help create homeownership opportunities for families who most need the assistance.” “As San Antonio’s representative on the House Committee on Appropriations, I know first hand how important these Federal funds are to keeping our community thriving.” said Congressman Rodriguez. “We will continue to work closely with leaders on both sides of the aisle as a bipartisan delegation to provide needed resources for housing our San Antonio community.” “Our community will benefit from these programs that open the door to affordable homeownership,” said Congressman Smith. “This funding demonstrates a commitment by the federal government to provide and support programs that improve the way of life for our residents.” For more information on grants, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at (202) 225-1640; the Office of Congressman Charlie Gonzalez at (202) 226-7524; the Office of Congressman Ciro Rodriguez at 202-225-4511; or the Office of Congressman Lamar Smith at (202) 225-4236. ###
10.05.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that SCAN (Serving Children and Adolescents in Need) has been awarded a total of $5.5 million through five separate grants that will help in the prevention of AIDS/HIV, assist run-away kids transition back into stable living environments, and help those suffering from substance and drug abuse. The grants were awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services. “As a member of Congress, ensuring that our citizens live in a healthy environment is an issue I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I commend SCAN for working hard to secure this grant that will help improve the lives of many of our residents.” One of the grants, the Border Enhancement and Expansion Act (BEEP), will expand and enhance substance abuse treatment and outreach services to those who might be at risk of contracting AIDS/HIV or those who are suffering with the disease. This $2.5 million will also be used to encourage follow-up testing every six to 12 months. In addition, home visitations, education, counseling, mental health services, and medical services also will be provided. The second grant, known as the Futuros Saludables Recovery Services Program, is aimed at assisting those suffering from substance and drug abuse. This grant for $1.4 million will help establish peer-to-peer recovery services and help prevent substance abuse and relapse, while at the same time monitoring the clients’ progress. The third grant, the Corazon Street Outreach Program, and the fourth grant, Arcoiris, will provide education and prevention services for runaway, homeless, and street youth who have been subjected or are at risk of sexual exploitation or abuse. This combined total of $1.3 million will also help these youth move and adjust to a stable and living environment. Outreach workers will provide the youth with supportive guidance, clothing, education, and transportation to the agency’s Emergency Youth Shelter. As part of the project, counselors and case managers will provide sexual abuse screening and assessment, substance abuse services, and individual, group and family counseling. This grant will also provide transitional living housing for these individuals.The fourth grant will assist SCAN in continuing operating its emergency shelter. This $379,500 grant will serve youth up to 18 years of age who are homeless, runaway, and living on the streets. The awarded money will help SCAN conduct runaway and homeless youth community-wide prevention and will also provide 24-hour emergency shelter for these individuals. As part of the program, SCAN caseworkers will also help strengthen family relationships and encourage stable living conditions for these youth. Counseling and other types of services will be provided. “On behalf of SCAN, Inc., I want to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his commitment to enhance and expand services in South Texas. This new funding will give SCAN the ability to enhance some of its current services and to bring new services to this area,” said Isela Dabdoub, Chief Executive Office at SCAN. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
10.05.2007	Today Congressman Henry Cuellar, together with officials from Texas A&M International University and Laredo Community College, announced the awarding of a federal grant in the amount of $3.5 million to the Mathematical Department at LCC. The Title V grant was awarded to the lead agency, LCC, and its partner, TAMIU, to improve the academic recruitment and retention of Hispanic students and other low income individuals. The Title V project is central to both institutions’ comprehensive development plans to improve the teaching and learning process of Hispanic students and low income individuals who make up over 90% of the student population at these institutions. “Good mathematical skills are so prevalent in today’s technological society,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28). “Knowing our two institutions of higher education will now focus more energy on developing students’ math skills brings hope of graduating students in fields that are essential in today’s world.” The Title V grant will be used in part to develop the following:• improve student achievement in mathematics by offering tutorial and counseling services;• provide computer labs for mathematics and related fields;• Provide faculty development in curriculum design, working with diverse student populations, assessment and instructional strategies through the use of technology;• Provide support to the Council on Educational Excellence to expand the opportunities and improve the academic attainment of Hispanic students in the Laredo area;• Create an endowment to support college students who have excelled in rigorous high school programs Dr. Dan Jones, TAMIU provost and vice president for academic affairs, who spoke today, stressed the importance of the award, “This Title V grant is important because it provides a robust arsenal of student support for both our primarily Hispanic-serving campuses. Through the grant, middle, high school, LCC and TAMIU students will draw immense benefit from the use of tutorial and counseling services, the embrace of technology-driven instructional strategies by highly-trained faculty and, most importantly, dedicated, multi-pronged efforts targeting student retention and graduation.” Meanwhile, LCC President Dr. Juan L. Maldonado said the college is pleased to have garnered the federal support with the help of Congressman Cuellar. Dr. Nora R. Garza, vice president for resource development at LCC was equally excited about the funding, “As a Hispanic Serving Institution, Laredo Community College is committed to its mission of making higher education accessible to all. With the support of the Title V Cooperative Development grant, we will be able to achieve greater strides in meeting our goals to help more students achieve brighter futures,” said Dr. Nora R. Garza, vice president for resource development at LCC. Officials say they will measure the effectiveness of the grant with several target goals, including:• providing at least 500 students with tutoring assistance• having 75% of students receiving tutoring pass mathematical courses with a “C” or better• having 75% of student receiving tutoring pass the tests required for their respective discipline For more information, please contact the Office of Congressman Henry Cuellar at 725-0639, the Office of Public Relations, Marketing and Information Services at Texas A&M International University at 326-2180, or the Office of Marketing and Public Relations at Laredo Community College at 721-5140. ### Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.
10.05.2007	U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar, in conjunction with the Rio Grande Valley Veteran’s Alliance, will host the 2007 Veterans Health and Enrollment Fair, Saturday, October 27, 2007. The event will provide free health services for local Veterans including immediate medical care from physicians, x-rays, lab work, high blood pressure exams, foot exams, and more. More importantly, Veterans attending the Fair will have the opportunity to enroll in the Veterans Administration system. With more accurate numbers of Veteran residents living in South Texas, Congressman Cuellar says more services can be provided closer to home. “I encourage all Veterans in Starr, Zapata, Jim Hogg and Hidalgo Counties to attend the Fair and enroll in the VA system. For health care and other services to be provided closer to home, numbers have to reflect a population demand. So no matter what your income, assets or branch of service, submit your application and be counted,” said Cuellar. One issue Veterans living in South Texas have been working with Congressman Cuellar on is to fight for a Veterans hospital in South Texas. By showing higher numbers of Veterans living in South Texas, the VA would see a higher demand for a local Veterans hospital or creating partnerships with local health providers. Once again, the event will take place on Saturday, October 27, from 8 am to 12noon, at the Family Health Center located at 2768 Pharmacy Rd., in Rio Grande City. Congressman Cuellar will be in attendance together with retired General Ricardo Sanchez. All Veterans are encouraged to attend. For more information, feel free to contact the Office of Henry Cuellar at 631-4826. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business,and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress. Accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
10.01.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the United Independent School District (United ISD) has been awarded a combined total of $507,747.36 through three separate grants awarded by the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant money will be used for internet access and telecommunications services. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in the United Independent School District receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. The first grant is for $172,961.18; the second is for $285,786.34; and the third is for $48,999.84. United ISD Superintendent Roberto J. Santos received the news with great excitement and said these dollars will go a long way in the education of the school district’s children. “I personally thank Congressman Cuellar for his assistance in looking out for the best interest of the children at United ISD,” Santos said. “Through his efforts, United ISD children will benefit and will have the most modern technology at their fingertips.” Also at the grant announcement, Congressman Cuellar, along with United ISD officials, presented backpacks filled with school supplies to underprivileged children at Dr. Henry Cuellar Elementary School. The backpacks were donated by COSTCO. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access.“As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Board Members, Superintendent Roberto J. Santos, and the United Independent School District family for ensuring that the students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
09.21.2007	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that the La Gloria Development Corporation has been awarded a $300,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The awarded funds, which came from HUD’s Rural Housing and Economic Development Program (RHED), will allow the corporation to purchase 10 lots and subsequently give low-income residents the opportunity of building their home. Once the 10 lots have been purchased with the federal funds and the families have been identified, La Gloria Development Corporation will seek monetary assistance from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs’ (TDHCA) Bootstrap Program for the construction of the homes. “I congratulate La Gloria Development Corporation for working closely with the federal and state government,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Ten families are now closer to reaching the American dream, which for most of us, is owning our own home. These families are being provided with an opportunity to build their assets through home ownership.” The Texas Bootstrap Loan Program is a self-help construction initiative, which is designed to provide low-income families an opportunity to help themselves through the form of sweat equity. Participants under this program are required to provide at least 60 percent of labor that is necessary to construct their home. Families may borrow up to $30,000 from TDHCA to build their home, and the interest-free loan will be paid over 30 years. “I have always been a firm believer that before someone else helps you, you must first help yourself, and this is exactly what this program does,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The federal government is here to give a lending hand to those who want to improve their lives.” La Gloria Development Corporation is a non-profit organization in El Cenizo that has been operating since 1992. Since its inception, the corporation has assisted 27 families build their homes through its self-help housing program. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
09.21.2007	Lytle Volunteer Fire Department officials expressed gratitude and were excited to receive word that their department has been awarded a $294,914 grant from the Department of Homeland Security. The money will be used for the purchase of a new fire truck that will come fully equipped with ladders, hoses, nozzles, and pike poles. The grant announcement was made today by Congressman Henry Cuellar. “This new apparatus and equipment will help us better serve our rapidly growing community,” said Lytle Volunteer Fire Department Chief Ernest Morales. “On behalf of the City of Lytle, surrounding counties, and the Lytle Volunteer Fire Department, we thank Congressman Cuellar for helping us secure these funds. We will make a valiant effort to maximize the potential effects this award has to offer.” The fire truck that will be purchased with the awarded funds will improve the response time to the scene of a rescue, as well as allow firefighters to efficiently manage multiple scenes at the same time with different firefighting/rescue vehicles. “I applaud the efforts of the Lytle Volunteer Fire Department and congratulate them on receiving this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I know the strong impact that volunteer fire departments have on rural areas, and I commend them for everything they are doing to secure the safety of their community’s residents.” Grants under the Vehicle Acquisition Program Area are very competitive and hard to obtain, and Congressman Cuellar is pleased to announce that the Lytle Volunteer Fire Department was one of few in the state of Texas to receive the grant. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides funding to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of the departments and non-affiliated emergency medical services organizations. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program will help enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of citizens in Lytle and the San Antonio area. Since 2004, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
09.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the La Joya Municipal Library has been awarded a $22,814.89 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for the maintenance of internal connections. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in La Joya receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the La Joya Municipal Library for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
09.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Richard Milburn Academy has been awarded a $31,539.37 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for internet access and telecommunications services. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in the Richard Milburn Academy receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Richard Milburn Academy for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
09.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City Independent School District has been awarded a $70,336.44 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for internet access and telecommunications services. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in the Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City area receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Schertz-Cibolo-Universal City Independent School District for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
09.13.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the South Texas Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse has been awarded a $2.5 million grant to reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS transmission among substance abusers in Starr and Webb Counties. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration (SAMHSA). The South Texas Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse will receive the first year allotment of 500,000, with the total amount of the grant potentially reaching $2.5 million over the next five years. “As a member of Congress, ensuring the health and safety of my constituents continues to be one of my top priorities. Unfortunately, HIV and AIDS are two diseases that know no boundaries and affects people from all walks of life,” said Congressman Cuellar. “These two diseases do not discriminate; they affect the rich and the poor and the educated and non-educated.” The project, called Caminos de la Frontera, will target men at high risk for HIV infection, including those who inject drugs, as well as men and women who are experiencing Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and substance dependency or abuse. Since testing started in 1985, 412 people have tested positive for HIV in Webb County and 17 in Starr County. The number of reported AIDS cases in Webb County is 260 and 29 in Starr County. Over the five-year grant period, funds will be used to provide coordinated substance abuse treatment and HIV/AIDS testing, counseling, and behavior modification therapies to 1,108 high-risk drug abusers. In addition, 720 high-risk drug users and their injection and/or sexual partners will be tested for HIV, and 2,000 persons at high risk for HIV transmission will receive free HIV and Sexually Transmitted Diseases health education. Chris Laurel, Executive Director of the South Texas Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse, expressed his gratitude to Congressman Cuellar and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for providing funds to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission among substance abusers on the Texas-Mexico border. “This 5 year grant will serve both Starr and Webb Counties with more intensive drug and alcohol outpatient treatment services and HIV/AIDS outreach, prevention, and counseling programs. It will target the neediest and poorest members of the community, especially Hispanic men and women who inject drugs, and their children who present the highest risk for HIV infection.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ###
09.12.2007	Congressman Henry Cuellar today announced that the St. Hedwig Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded a $118,750 grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant is part of the Vehicle Acquisition Program Area and the awarded funds will be used for the purchase of a brush truck, which will aid in grass fires. “I applaud the efforts of the St. Hedwig Volunteer Fire Department and congratulate them on receiving this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I know the strong impact that volunteer fire departments have on rural areas, and I commend them for everything they are doing to secure the safety of their community’s residents.” Grants under the Vehicle Acquisition Program Area are very competitive and hard to obtain, and Congressman Cuellar is pleased to announce that the St. Hedwig Volunteer Fire Department was one of few in the state of Texas to receive the grant. The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides funding to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of the departments and non-affiliated emergency medical services organizations. Since 2004, AFG has provided a total of almost $2.2 billion to first-responder organizations for the purchase of equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
09.07.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted on the final passage of the Conference Report accompanying H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007. The bill reduces the interest rates students pay on loans and authorizes a $20 billion investment, which will be cut from lender subsidies and used to fund aid to college students. The conference report, which passed the House by a vote of 292-97, will now go to the President’s desk for his signature. “The congressional passage of the student loan bill is a significant step towards helping families and students pay for college. We’ve seen tuition rates increase, and government funding has not caught up with the financial demands our students face. I believe this legislation will encourage more students to pursue their college education though some face financial hardship,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Many of these provisions will alleviate students’ financial situations and, therefore, put them on the track of success.” The College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 includes provisions that will drastically impact college students in the 28th District of Texas. It cuts interest rates in half on subsidized loans, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, over four years. It also boosts the Pell grant award by $1,090 over five years, and it offers debt forgiveness to certain public-sector workers after ten years of service. The language within the conference report will enhance programs that are especially pertinent for students throughout Texas. Upward Bound, a program that will better prepare low-income students, or students whose parents did not go to college, for higher education will receive an additional $282 million. The TEACH program will provide $4,600 grants to students who wish to teach in high poverty schools or in high-need subjects. The bill also includes a $510 million grant program to help schools that serve minorities ensure their students graduate. “Exemplary, qualified students in my district deserve the best education has to offer,” said Congressman Cuellar, “We must invest in America’s students, and it is Congress’ obligation to help relieve the financial burden placed upon those who cannot afford to attend college. I am proud to have taken part in this groundbreaking bill—the largest investment since the G.I. Bill, and at no cost to taxpayers,” said Congressman Cuellar. The Senate passed this bill by a vote of 79 to 12. It now travels to President Bush for his signature. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ####
09.04.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Jourdanton Independent School District has been awarded a $43,779.73 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for telecommunications services and internet access. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in Jourdanton receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Jourdanton Independent School District for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
08.31.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that both the Seguin Police Department as well as the Guadalupe County Sheriff’s Department have received funding through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program made possible by the Department of Justice. The City of Seguin will receive $10,247 to distribute to the Police Department and Guadalupe County will receive $10,397 to distribute to the Sheriff’s Department. “These funds will help provide equipment that will be beneficial to the daily operations of both law enforcement departments," said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I am well aware of the importance of technology when it comes to fighting crime. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” The Seguin Police Department will use awarded funds to enhance interoperability by purchasing laptop computers for their patrol units. These computers will allow officers to access critical information from the department’s dispatch center such as vehicle registration and driver’s license information. This new technology will also allow officers to write incident reports directly from their vehicles. “Seguin is very pleased to be the recipient of this grant and we are very grateful to Congressman Cuellar for making this possible. This grant will enhance the efficiency of our police department,” said Seguin Mayor Betty Ann Matthies. The Guadalupe County Sheriff’s Department will use the awarded funds to purchase four similar laptop computers. “I welcome the availability of these grant funds, as they will play an instrumental role in the health, welfare and safety of our citizens,” said Guadalupe County Judge Mike Wiggins. “We thank Congressman Cuellar for his leadership and interest in the well being of our citizens.” Funding for both agencies is part of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) which allows states, tribes and local governments to support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
08.30.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Atascosa Health Center, Inc. has received a $337,500 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services. The grant will be used for a satellite health clinic in Wilson County. Once fully operational, the clinic will provide medical and dental care, substance abuse services, mental health services, and perinatal services. Clients will also be screened for cancers, elevated blood lead levels, communicable diseases, and cholesterol. Services for children will also be provided; these include dental care, immunizations, pediatric vision and hearing screenings. “Providing easy access to quality health care has always been a top priority for me. I have always believed that in order to live a long and healthy life, preventive medicine must be available to everyone,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Today, I congratulate the Atascosa Health Center for bringing health care closer to the residents who need it the most in Atascosa and Wilson counties. At full capacity, the health care clinic in Wilson County is expected to serve an additional 4,525 customers. This is in addition to other clients already being served in the same county and those who are receiving services in Karnes County. According to statistics, this area has a high rate of obesity, diabetes and heart problems. In its proposed plan, the Atascosa Health Center will attempt to reduce these problematic rates while establishing measurable objectives towards lowering these health disparities. This is the second grant received by Atascosa Health Center, Inc., this year. In May, Congressman Cuellar announced a $441,000 grant for a new clinic in Karnes County. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
08.29.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Adriana D. Aguilar, a junior at United South High School, has been selected to participate in the prestigious United States House of Representatives Page Program. As a member of the Page Program, Adriana will live and study in Washington, DC for five months and provide administrative support to the House of Representatives in a variety of capacities. The Page Program is non-partisan and run by the U.S. House of Representatives, and is made up of high school juniors. The students serve as non-partisan federal employees, providing supplemental administrative support to House operations. Some page responsibilities include transporting legislative documents between Congressional Offices and delivering new bills and amendments to the House Floor. On average, only between 60-72 students from across the nation are selected to participate in the program. Adriana is the first Laredoan in several decades to participate in the program. Participating students must be juniors in high school and be at least 16 years old on the day the page term begins. The student must have also maintained a minimum GPA of 3.0 or 85 in the major subjects during their 9th and 10th grades and must have also submitted three letters of recommendation. “Adriana truly deserves to participate in this prestigious program. She not only meets all of the qualifications, but embodies the characteristics of a true American; she is a young woman who is on the right path to success,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I am certain that she will represent the City of Laredo, United Independent School District and United South High School with great pride.” In addition to her Page responsibilities, Adriana will attend the House Page School, where she will be taking classes that will apply towards her high school credits needed for graduation. Adriana will also participate in several seminars in Washington and will be tested at the end of the semester for course credit. Present at the ceremony were United Independent School District Superintendent Roberto Santos, board members Francisco Gonzalez and Mike Garza, and City Councilman Juan Chavez. United South High School Principal Roylin Wilson served as Mistress of Ceremonies. “I am honored to have been selected to participate in the Page Program, which will give me a first-hand look at the workings of our federal government. This once-in-a-lifetime opportunity would not have been possible without the support from Congressman Cuellar,” said Adriana. “I am eagerly looking forward to learning about House Floor procedures, witness votes, and interact directly with Members of Congress.” Adriana will participate in the program from September 2, 2007, to January 25, 2008. Upon graduation from high school, Adriana plans to attend the University of Texas at San Antonio. Her goal is to become a doctor and practice medicine in Laredo. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.28.2007	Laredo, TX – Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the City of Laredo has been awarded a $125,687 from the Department of Justice’s Office of Justice Program. These funds, which will support equipment and technology initiatives, will be used for both the City of Laredo and the Webb County Sheriff’s Department. Specifically, the Laredo Police Department will use awarded funds for the purchase of a Tag-Nabit Vehicle Identification System for its patrol units. This device will enable officers to read license plates by scanning up to 60 vehicles per second. The system is connected to a database and allows readings at residential and highway speeds. Funds from this grant will provide police officers with the ability to track stolen vehicles through license plate reading technology. This technology will provide a brief description of each vehicle in question. In addition, the Police Department will purchase Segway transport vehicles to facilitate community policing efforts. Segways permit officers to quickly transition from walking to sprinting speeds. These transport vehicles will be extremely beneficial in the Laredo downtown area. The Webb County Sheriff’s Department will institute technological improvements by purchasing a Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and accompanying antennas. This system will help increase the safety of deputies in the field by tracking active patrol units with pinpoint precision. “This equipment that will be purchased by both agencies is vital for their daily operations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I am well aware of the importance of technology when it comes to fighting crime. I will continue working hard to ensure that our first responders are well protected.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
08.28.2007	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Hidalgo Independent School District (Hidalgo ISD) has been awarded a $227,115 grant for its Readiness and Emergency Management Program. The grant, which comes from the Department of Education, will allow Hidalgo ISD to develop and improve plans that address all four phases of emergency management, including prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. The grant will also allow Hidalgo ISD to coordinate and share information with the area’s first responders and work collaboratively with police and fire departments and effectively address any emergency situation. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand how important it is for students to know how to react in emergency situations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate Hidalgo ISD for making the safety of its students and staff a top priority.” While reviewing and improving its emergency management plans, Hidalgo ISD will work collaboratively with community partners, including law enforcement, local government, public safety, public health, and mental health agencies. The emergency management plans must include: 1) training for school staff and students 2) a method on how to best communicate emergency management policies and procedures to parents 3) a way to support the implementation of the National Incident Management System. As part of the grant, Hidalgo ISD will also develop a written plan to prepare for a possible infectious disease outbreak. The special-needs population will be taken into consideration as the plan is being developed. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.27.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Webb County Community Coalition has been awarded a $100,000 grant to combat substance drug abuse. The grant is part of the Drug Free Communities Support Program and was awarded by the White House Office of National Drug Council Policy and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The Webb County Community Coalition will receive the first year allotment of $100,000, with the total amount of the grant potentially reaching $500,000 over the next five years. “As a member of Congress, ensuring that our children grow up in a healthy environment is an issue I take very seriously. Efforts to keep our communities drug-free are critical to a healthy environment here in Webb County and in the City of Laredo,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I commend the Webb County Community Coalition for working hard to secure this competitive grant.” The coalition was one of only of 90 grantees selected from 321 applicants across the nation. The Webb County Community Coalition is a program under the auspices of Serving Children and Adolescents in Need (SCAN), Inc., and works closely with other local organizations in curtailing the use of illicit drugs among youth and adults in Webb County. Its objectives are to: 1) increase community commitment to reduce substance abuse; 2) support and enhance the local drug prevention, intervention, and treatment infrastructure; 3) increase public awareness of local substance abuse issues and services; 4) promote the healthy development of youth and families; and 5) facilitate the referral process for youth requiring substance abuse services. “SCAN thanks Congressman Henry Cuellar for his assistance in securing this grant that will help us address substance prevention for children, youth and families,” said Isela Dabdoub, Chief Executive Officer at SCAN. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.###
08.22.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Hidalgo Independent School District (Hidalgo ISD) has been awarded a $227,115 grant for its Readiness and Emergency Management Program. The grant, which comes from the Department of Education, will allow Hidalgo ISD to develop and improve plans that address all four phases of emergency management, including prevention-mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. While reviewing and improving its emergency management plans, Hidalgo ISD will work collaboratively with community partners, including law enforcement, local government, public safety, public health, and mental health agencies. The emergency management plans must include: 1) training for school staff and students 2) a method on how to best communicate emergency management policies and procedures to parents 3) a way to support the implementation of the National Incident Management System. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand how important it is for students to know how to react in emergency situations,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I congratulate Hidalgo ISD for making the safety of its students and staff a top priority.” As part of the grant, Hidalgo ISD will also develop a written plan to prepare for a possible infectious disease outbreak. The special-needs population will be taken into consideration as the plan is being developed. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
08.21.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Jim Hogg County has been added to the Federal Disaster Declaration as a result of the severe thunderstorms that have recently swept through the area. Public entities, which include state and local governments and certain non-profit organizations, affected by the ravaging waters are now eligible to apply for federal disaster assistance though the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “I have seen first hand the damage that these storms caused in Jim Hogg County, and I want to assure the public entities that I will do everything in my ability to get them back on their feet as soon as possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. In addition to state agencies, local governmental entities, and certain private non-profit (PNP) organizations, special utility districts and Indian Tribal organizations may also apply for aid. Eligible PNP organizations must own or operate educational, utility, irrigation, emergency, medical, custodial care, or essential governmental services facilities. Governmental service facilities include museums, zoos, community centers, libraries, homeless shelters, senior citizen centers, rehabilitation facilities, shelter workshops, and other facilities which provide health and safety services of a governmental nature. These facilities must be open to the general public. As soon as possible after the declaration is made, the state of Texas, assisted by FEMA, will conduct the applicant briefings for state, local, and (PNP) organizations to inform them about the assistance available and how to apply for it. For more information, call FEMA at 1-800-621-FEMA (3362). “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the critical need for funds to make their way to Jim Hogg County,” Congressman Cuellar stated. Congressman Cuellar also thanks local city and county officials for working diligently to ensure that Jim Hogg County received the attention it deserves. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.21.2007	Today, United States Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Atascosa County has been added to the Federal Disaster Declaration as a result of the severe thunderstorms that have recently swept through the area. Individuals and public entities affected by the ravaging waters are now eligible to apply for federal disaster assistance though the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). To apply for assistance, individuals should register by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or going online at www.fema.gov. Whether applying online or by telephone, residents must have their social security number, current and pre-disaster addresses, a contact phone number, insurance information, total household annual income, a description of losses caused by the disaster, as well as a bank routing and account number ready if they prefer to have disaster assistance funds transferred directly into their bank account. “I applaud the addition of Atascosa County to the disaster declaration,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have seen first hand the damage that these thunderstorms caused in this county, and I want to assure the residents who were affected by these storms that I will do everything in my ability to get them back on their feet as soon as possible.” As part of the disaster declaration, FEMA-1709-DR, residents and public entities affected by the heavy rains and flooding will be able to apply for aid under the Individuals and Households Program (IHP) and Public Assistance (PA) program. The IHP provides assistance or direct services to individuals affected by the disaster who have necessary expenses and are unable to meet their needs through other financial means. According to FEMA, up to $28,200 is available in financial assistance, although some forms of IHP are limited and the amount may be adjusted each year. IHP assistance includes temporary housing, repair, replacement, semi-permanent or permanent housing construction, and other needs, including personal property and other items. The PA program makes federal funds available to repair damages and reimburse applicants for eligible costs associated with the disaster-related activities. Eligible applicants include state agencies, local governments or governmental entities, special utility districts, certain private non-profit organizations (PNP), and Indian Tribal organizations. Eligible PNP organizations must own or operate educational, utility, irrigation, emergency, medical, custodial care, or essential governmental services facilities. Governmental service facilities include museums, zoos, community centers, libraries, homeless shelters, senior citizen centers, rehabilitation facilities, shelter workshops, and other facilities which provide health and safety services of a governmental nature. These facilities must be open to the general public. As soon as possible after the declaration, the state of Texas, assisted by FEMA, will conduct the applicant briefings for state, local, and (PNP) organizations to inform them about the public assistance available and how to apply for it. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I understand the critical need for funds to make their way to Atascosa County,” Congressman Cuellar stated. Congressman Cuellar also thanks local city and county officials for working diligently to ensure that Atascosa County received the attention it deserves. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
08.21.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Mission Consolidated Independent School District (Mission CISD) has been awarded a $189,892 grant for its mentoring program. The mentoring program is for students in grades 4-8 who reside in rural, high-crime areas or troubled environments. Mission CISD will receive the first year allotment of $189,892, with the total amount of the grant potentially reaching more than $569,676 over the next three years. “As a member of Congress, ensuring that our children grow up in a healthy environment is an issue I take very seriously. I applaud the Mission CISD for taking the initiative to identify these students who otherwise might fall through the cracks,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Mentoring programs have proven successful in allowing our young people to walk a straight line.” The mentoring program at Mission CISD will assist participants with support and guidance from a mentor, improve their academic achievement, and help develop interpersonal relationships with their peers, teachers, other adults, and family members. This program will also reduce the drop out rate in Mission ISD while working to curb youth involvement in local gangs. “This grant will help us enhance our existing mentoring program designed for at-risk youth by creating a sense of belonging,” said Mission CISD Superintendent Oscar Rodriguez. “We also thank Congressman Cuellar for everything he has done to help our schools, students and the community.” This grant is in addition to the $198,604 that Congressman Cuellar announced last week for Mission CISD’s student drug-testing program. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.20.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Poth Independent School District has been awarded a $16,333.79 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for telecommunications services and internet access. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in Poth receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Poth Independent School District for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
08.20.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Pleasanton Independent School District has been awarded a $37,674.51 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for telecommunications services. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in Pleasanton receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in the education of our young people. I congratulate the Pleasanton Independent School District for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
08.17.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Mission Consolidated Independent School District (Mission CISD) has been awarded a $198,604 grant to implement a random student drug-testing program. The drug testing program is for students in grades 6-12 who participate in athletics or in school-sponsored extracurricular activities. Mission CISD will receive the first year allotment of $198,604, with the total amount of the grant potentially reaching more than $595,812 over the next three years. “As a member of Congress, ensuring that our children grow up in a healthy environment is an issue I take very seriously. I will do everything that is in my reach to make sure that all our students are drug-free,” said Congressman Cuellar. “One of the best places to start weeding out this problem is at our schools.” As part of the program, Mission CISD will randomly perform drug test on the students, provided that the student’s parent or legal guardian signs a consent form. If a student tests positive, the school district will place that child in an assistance program and will provide counseling or drug treatment if necessary. The results will be confidential. “Mission CISD thanks Congressman Henry Cuellar for everything he is doing to promote a drug-free culture,” said Superintendent Oscar Rodriguez. “We welcome this grant with open arms because it will help us utilize in other areas the resources we currently have, while at the same time promoting a healthy environment.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.17.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that La Joya Independent School District (LA Joya ISD) has been awarded a $1 million grant from the Department of Education’s Teaching American History Grants Program. The grant will be used to fund La Joya ISD’s project entitled Passion for United States (PUSH). The goal of this project is to raise student achievement in the subject of American History. The PUSH project will be divided into three objectives: 1) to increase teacher knowledge in American history; 2) to increase student achievement in American history in grades K-12; and 3) to increase La Joya ISD’s capacity to provide long-term, sustained professional development in American history beyond the life of the grant, which is expected to continue through the next three years. “As a member of Congress and a parent, I believe that it is very important to instill the importance of American History into our young people,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This grant will teach our students about the many important events that helped shape the America we know today.” In total, 30 elementary, middle and high school teachers will be trained annually over the next three years. Additionally, 15 elementary teachers will receive an Associates Degree in History as part of a three-year, 10-course program that also includes secondary level History certification. South Texas College and Texas A&M University are partnering with La Joya ISD in this project. Region One Education Center, Museum of South Texas History, Jamestown Yorktown Foundation, Pamplin Park and the National Museum of the Civil War Soldier are also partners in this endeavor. “La Joya ISD is elated about receiving these monies. The benefits are immense, and we could not have obtained this grant without the help of Congressman Cuellar,” said Alda Benavides, La Joya ISD Superintendent. “We will work diligently to continue expanding the students’ knowledge in History.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.16.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Texas A&M International University (TAMIU) has been awarded a $602,550 grant for its GEAR UP Program. The grant, which comes from the Department of Education, will be used to alleviate the educational challenges faced by low-income students in Spanish speaking homes. TAMIU will use funds from the Department of Education to implement the five year long GEAR UP Program. It will receive the first year allotment of $602,550, with the total amount of the grant potentially reaching more than $3.6 million over the next five years. TAMIU’s program, “Creating a Vision III” GEAR UP, will help students in the following school districts: Cotulla, Zapata County, Jim Hogg County, San Diego, Benavides, Carrizo Springs Consolidated, and Crystal City. Cotulla, Zapata County, and Jim Hogg County independent school districts are in Congressman Cuellar’s 28th Congressional District. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that our students receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have always believed that intervention programs are great tools in targeting students who have never considered the possibility of continuing their education beyond high school. I commend TAMIU for working to identify these students, and I trust that this program will provide the students with resources that will help continue their education through college.” The program’s goals include: strengthening existing academic strategies and implementing new programs to raise academic standards, providing academic support for students, improving teacher training, and increasing students’ knowledge of higher education and admissions. These goals will be achieved by developing an education program that will enable parents to provide a nurturing academic environment for their children. The program will also provide academic assistance, counseling, tutorial services, and educational activities to supplement regular school programs before entering college. In total, “Creating a Vision III” will serve 930 seventh grade students from these school districts. The students will continue in the program through high school. “This is a tremendous program with a strategic and systematic approach to increasing the number of Hispanic students graduating from high school, enrolling and graduating from college and thereafter improving their quality of life and their communities,” said Ray Keck, TAMIU President. “I’m especially impressed by the multiple approaches dedicated to the students themselves, their teachers and their parents, ¬each combining to reinforce the importance and availability of higher education here.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
08.10.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Poteet Independent School District has been awarded a $6,643.43 grant through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The grant will be used for the maintenance of internal connections. “Providing our youth with easy access to a quality education has been a priority of mine and I will continue working hard to make sure that the children in Poteet receive the best education possible,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. The grant will be used for internal connections management. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “As a father of two children, I understand the importance that technology plays in their education. I congratulate the Poteet Independent School District for ensuring that the area’s students have access to the latest technological advancements,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
08.08.2007	Today, United States Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Guadalupe County has been added to the Federal Disaster Declaration as a result of the severe thunderstorms that swept through the area last month. Individuals affected by the ravaging waters are now eligible to apply for federal disaster assistance though the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). To apply for assistance, individuals should register by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or going online at www.fema.gov. Whether applying online or by telephone, residents must have their social security number, current and pre-disaster addresses, a contact phone number, insurance information, total household annual income, a description of losses caused by the disaster, as well as a bank routing and account number ready if they prefer to have disaster assistance funds transferred directly into their bank account. “I applaud the addition of Guadalupe County to the disaster declaration,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We have seen first hand the damage that these thunderstorms caused in this county, and I want to assure the residents who were affected by these storms that I will do everything in my ability to get them back on their feet as soon as possible.” As part of the disaster declaration, FEMA-1709-DR, people affected by the heavy rains and flooding will be able to apply for aid under the Individuals and Households Program (IHP), which provides assistance or direct services to individuals affected by the disaster who have necessary expenses and are unable to meet their needs through other financial means. According to FEMA, up to $28,200 is available in financial assistance, although some forms of IHP are limited and the amount may be adjusted each year. IHP assistance includes temporary housing, repair, replacement, semi-permanent or permanent housing construction, and other needs, including personal property and other items. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I will make it a priority to ensure that funds make their way to Guadalupe County and help as many people as possible,” Congressman Cuellar noted. Congressman Cuellar also thanks local city and county officials for working diligently to ensure that Guadalupe County received the attention they deserve. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
08.07.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Department of Homeland Security has awarded the Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department a grant of $38,000 through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants program. The Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department will use the grant to purchase an air compressor, a cascade bottle system and a fill station. “This equipment is vital to firefighting operations. The bottles, in particular, will be used in our breathing apparatus to supply air to firefighters in house fires,” said Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department Assistant Chief Henry Jay Fotjik. “We thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for the support he has given us and other numerous fire departments in his district.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants program provides funding to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of the departments and non-affiliated emergency medical services organizations. “I applaud the efforts of the Jourdanton Volunteer Fire Department and congratulate them on receiving this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I know the strong impact that volunteer fire departments have on rural areas, and I commend them for everything they are doing to secure the safety of their community’s residents.” Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. The National Preparedness Directorate in the Federal Emergency Management Agency administers the grants in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
08.06.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar expressed his gratitude to the Chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives Congressman Bob Filner for meeting with South Texas Veterans and said the gatherings were a success. The meetings started Sunday in San Antonio and continued through Monday in Laredo, Zapata, Roma and Donna. “It is clear that better access to healthcare is a top priority for all veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The veterans had an opportunity to share their concerns, which gave Chairman Filner a first-hand look at the daily hardships that veterans in my district are facing.” During the meetings, most veterans’ organizations said driving to Audie Murphy Hospital in San Antonio is one of their biggest concerns, and that in addition to it placing a burden on their finances, it also takes away time from the family and many have to miss work to receive these services. Veterans also spoke about the need for more health services at the local offices and the long delay in time to process the applications. A strong advocate for veterans’ benefits, Congressman Cuellar stated that recent legislative activity by both chambers of Congress increased the Department of Veterans’ Affairs budget by $6.6 billion. This discretionary funding represents the largest annual increase to Veterans’ Affairs healthcare spending in the department’s 77-year history. “We need to protect our veterans who protected our country. It is a responsibility I take very seriously and am proud that we were able to increase this funding and help improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I appreciate Chairman Filner taking time off from his busy schedule to meet with the veterans of South Texas and hear their concerns. This historic visit to South Texas is an indication of his commitment to the veterans in our area.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.03.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3222, the FY 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill, that includes a $1 million provision requested by Congressman Cuellar to establish a training center on the border that, for the first time, will focus on interoperability for National Guard units and other federal and local counterparts in protecting the nation’s land borders. The center will be housed at Texas A&M International University and run through a cooperative effort with the Laredo Community College. “Securing the nation’s land borders in an efficient manner is important to me and something I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this bill, which ultimately means safer communities for residents in the 28th District.” The FY 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill invests a total of $459.6 billion, an increase of $39.7 billion more than last year’s budget. The bill, which is expected to preserve the ability to deter and respond to future threats, also gives troops a 3.5 percent pay increase, improves military health care, and invests in increasing support for families of those in the military. Key provisions of the bill include: • National Guard and Reserve: Provides funding to address shortfalls of the National Guard and Reserve to help these forces meet demands of overseas deployments and respond to natural disasters at home• Training and military equipment for the troops: Provides an increase of 13 percent for home-station training, so that the troops are prepared for any deployment• Military health care: Provides additional funding for military health care, including fostering better coordination between the Defense Department and the Department of Veterans’ Affairs• Support for troops at home: Provides funding for military family support, including childcare centers, education initiatives, and family advocacy programs, which support military families affected by the war. Programs to support military families affected by child and spousal abuse are also included in the bill.• Military construction oversight: Includes several steps to improve the oversight of contractors, including funding, contracting security positions, and improving the Department of Defense acquisition workforce “This bill ensures that our military is fully prepared for threats and challenges worldwide and also ensures that our troops receive the benefits they deserve and have earned. One of my priorities is securing the safety of our troops and the military,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.03.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Division of Emergency Management - Office of the Governor has scheduled an applicant briefing for Starr County governmental agencies and certain non-profit organizations whose buildings were affected by the recent storms that ravaged through the area. The briefing will be held on Tuesday, August 7, 2007, at the Starr County Courthouse at 10 am. The briefing will assist applicants start the process and review important program information. The Public Assistance program makes federal funds available to repair damages and reimburse applicants for eligible costs associated with the disaster-related activities. “I have seen first hand the damage that these storms caused in Starr County, and I want to assure those affected that I will do everything in my ability to get them back on their feet as soon as possible,” said Congressman Cuellar. Eligible applicants include state agencies, local governments or governmental entities, special utility districts, certain private non-profit organizations (PNP), and Indian Tribal organizations. Eligible PNP organizations must own or operate educational, utility, irrigation, emergency, medical, custodial care, or essential governmental services facilities. Governmental service facilities include museums, zoos, community centers, libraries, homeless shelters, senior citizen centers, rehabilitation facilities, shelter workshops, and other facilities which provide health and safety services of governmental nature. These facilities must be open to the general public. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I will make it a priority to ensure that funds make their way to Starr County and help as many agencies as possible,” Congressman Cuellar stated. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that he has secured priority grant consideration in the House version of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, for a Wilson County Community Youth Center. This consideration will give Wilson County an advantage when it applies for funds to build a Community Youth Center. The center will be used to educate the area’s youth in agriculture related topics. Financial assistance would come from grants and/or loans made available through Rural Development programs within the Department of Agriculture. “I strongly believe that we should provide our youth with every opportunity available, and this priority grant status does exactly that. It gives the youth of Wilson County an opportunity to learn about agriculture,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Other Provisions • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food.• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide healthy foods to students in pre-school, elementary, and secondary schools.• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income.• Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department will administer loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Agriculture Loans: This measure provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm-ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions.• Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that indicates if it was U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that he has secured priority grant consideration in the House version of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, for a Starr County Community Youth Center. This consideration will give Starr County an advantage when it applies for funds to build a Community Youth Center. The center will be used to educate the area’s youth in agriculture related topics. Financial assistance would come from grants and/or loans made available through Rural Development programs within the Department of Agriculture. “I strongly believe that we should provide our youth with every opportunity available, and this priority grant status does exactly that. It gives the youth of Starr County an opportunity to learn about agriculture,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Other Provisions • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food.• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide healthy foods to students in pre-school, elementary, and secondary schools.• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income.• Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department will administer loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Agriculture Loans: This measure provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm-ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions.• Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that indicates if it was U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that he has secured priority grant consideration in the House version of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, for a Jim Hogg County Community Youth Center. This consideration will give the Jim Hogg County an advantage when it applies for funds to build a Community Youth Center. The center will be used to educate the area’s youth in agriculture related topics. Financial assistance would come from grants and/or loans made available through Rural Development programs within the Department of Agriculture. “I strongly believe that we should provide our youth with every opportunity available, and this priority grant status does exactly that. It gives the youth of Jim Hogg County to learn more about agriculture,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Other Provisions • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food.• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide healthy foods to students in pre-school, elementary, and secondary schools.• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income.• Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department will administer loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Agriculture Loans: This measure provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm-ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions.• Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that indicates if it was U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that he has secured priority grant consideration in the House version of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, for vehicles for the cities of El Cenizo and Rio Bravo. This consideration will give the cities of Rio Bravo and El Cenizo an advantage when they apply for funds to purchase the vehicles. The financial assistance would come from grants and/or loans made available through Rural Development programs. “Rio Bravo and El Cenizo are striving communities that want to succeed, and I will do everything I can to help them out,” said Congressman Cuellar. “If granted, these vehicles will have a tremendous impact in their day-to-day operations.” The FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Other Provisions • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food.• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide healthy foods to students in pre-school, elementary, and secondary schools.• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income.• Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department will administer loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Agriculture Loans: This measure provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm-ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions.• Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that indicates if it was U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that he has secured priority grant consideration in the House version of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, for a Frio County Community Youth Center. This consideration will give Frio County an advantage when it applies for funds to build a Community Youth Center. The center will be used to educate the area’s youth in agriculture related topics. Financial assistance would come from grants and/or loans made available through Rural Development programs within the Department of Agriculture. “I strongly believe that we should provide our youth with every opportunity available, and this priority grant status does exactly that. It gives the youth of Frio County an opportunity to learn about agriculture,” said Congressman Cuellar. The FY 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Other Provisions • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food.• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide healthy foods to students in pre-school, elementary, and secondary schools.• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income.• Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department will administer loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Agriculture Loans: This measure provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm-ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions.• Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that indicates if it was U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
08.01.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar hailed the House passage of the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act that will provide health care to 11 million children nationwide and strengthens the Medicare system. Congressman Cuellar is proud to be 1 of 12 members who co-sponsored the CHAMP legislation. The legislation includes funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which was established in 1997, and serves low-income uninsured children. Since its inception, the number of children without health insurance has fallen by one third, with only six million receiving access to health care through SCHIP. This program assists children whose family’s income falls above the threshold for Medicaid, but who still cannot afford to purchase medical insurance coverage. “We cannot fail America’s children; we must recognize the importance of our youth and provide them adequate access to health care,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar is most proud of this legislation because he started the SCHIP pilot program in Laredo, Texas, at Farias Elementary School while he was a member of the Texas Legislature. Because of the pilot program’s success, it later became a statewide program. The CHAMP Act ensures that the six million children currently enrolled - including 526,406 in Texas - will retain their health coverage after funding for SCHIP expires on September 30. Moreover, an additional five million children who are not enrolled in SCHIP will now be eligible to receive health care services under this legislation. The legislation also includes a provision that gives states the option to extend coverage for the “aged out” 17-year-old individuals until the age of 24. States are allowed two years to spend their federal SCHIP allotments for each fiscal year. For the first time, SCHIP funds will provide pregnant women with health care services. The states must meet the criteria, which is intended to expand the number of women eligible for benefits. The legislation also includes key provisions that benefit seniors. Seniors are ensured continued access to the doctors of their choice by stopping a 10% payment cut to doctors, are encouraged to seek preventative health benefits by eliminating co-payments and deductibles, are ensured that Medicare stays affordable, and are ensured access to doctors they trust. Other key provisions of the Medicare section include:• Assigning the poorest beneficiaries to a plan that would cover 95 percent of the 100 brand and generic drugs most commonly used by Medicare beneficiaries • Allowing beneficiaries with assets of less than $17,000 – or $34,000 for couples – to qualify for the Medicare Savings Program and Low-Income Subsidy Program which indicates that beginning in 2010, the limit would be increased annually by $1,000 for individuals and $2,000 for couples The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
08.01.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the House passed the Conference Report on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), which authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. The conference report, which passed the House by a vote of 381-40, will now to go the President’s desk for his signature. In working on water infrastructure for the Colonias along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to projects in Webb and Zapata Counties. “The congressional passage WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will provide essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I am proud of the Colonias provision, which was secured during a floor colloquy with Chairman Oberstar.” WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects in the Rio Grande Basin and in the San Antonio Channel .In the Lower Rio Grande Basin and San Antonio Channel, the Secretary of the Army will be able to review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design construction work. In working on water infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to Colonias projects in Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
08.01.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the House passed the Conference Report on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), which authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. The conference report, which passed the House by a vote of 381-40, will now be sent to the President’s desk for signature. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin, the Secretary of the Army will review the possibility of further progress on the Raymondville Drain Project and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design future construction work. In working on water infrastructure for the Colonias along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to projects in Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I am proud of the Colonias provision, which was secured during a floor colloquy with Chairman Oberstar.” WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects along the San Antonio Channel and in the city of Dilley. The Secretary of the Army will assess current projects along the San Antonio Channel and determine what new steps should be taken to enhance flood control. The studies conducted in Dilley will aim to reduce flood damage, control erosion and implement environmental restoration. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
08.01.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the House passed the Conference Report on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), which authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. The conference report, which passed the House by a vote of 381-40, will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. The Secretary of the Army will be able to review the plan for flood protection on the Guadalupe and San Antonio Rivers and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design future construction work. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects in the Rio Grande Basin and in the city of Dilley. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin, the Secretary of the Army will be able to review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design construction work. In working on water infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to Colonias projects in Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
08.01.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the House passed the Conference Report on H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), which authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects, and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water programs in Texas’ 28th District. The conference report, which passed the House by a vote of 381-40, will now be sent to the President’s desk for signature. In Dilley, a project is authorized to reduce flood damage as determined by the Secretary of the Army. The project reaffirms the commitment of the federal government to help improve water resources infrastructure and address new water resources needs. “The Congressional passage of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Dilley. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud my colleagues in Congress for passing this important piece of legislation.” WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects in the Rio Grande Basin and in the San Antonio Channel. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin and San Antonio Channel, the Secretary of the Army will be able to review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design construction work. In working on water infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to Colonias projects in Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
07.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Congressman Bob Filner, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, will be his special guest in San Antonio on Sunday, August 5, 2007, to meet with veterans in an effort to address some of their top concerns. The meeting will take place at the University of Texas at San Antonio Downtown Campus, Buena Vista Building – 1.236, 501 W. Durango Street, from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. “This will be a historic occasion for the veterans in this area. Through meeting with veterans’ organizations of the 28th district, it is clear that better access to healthcare is their top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invited the Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman so he can hear first hand what the veterans in my district are facing. He was very gracious to accept the invitation to South Texas, and all veterans are urged to attend and participate in this very important gathering.” The purpose of the meeting is for veterans to engage in a dialogue about critical veterans’ issues and specific problems experienced by veterans who live in South Texas. A strong advocate for veterans’ benefits, Congressman Cuellar stated that recent legislative activity by both chambers of Congress increased the Department of Veterans’ Affairs budget by $6.6 billion. This discretionary funding represents the largest annual increase to Veterans’ Affairs healthcare spending in the department’s 77-year history. “One of our greatest responsibilities is to protect our veterans who protected our country. It is a responsibility I take very seriously and am proud that we were able to increase this funding and help improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We appreciate Chairman Filner’s taking time off from his busy schedule to meet with the veterans of South Texas and hear their concerns.” For more information or for directions to the event, please call Eddie Zavala or Jose Luis Rodriguez at the local Laredo office at 956-725-0639.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Congressman Bob Filner, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, will be his special guest in Laredo on Monday, August 6, 2007, to meet with veterans in an effort to address some of their top concerns. The meeting will take place at Texas A&M International University, Student Center Auditorium, Room #236, 5201 University Blvd., from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. “This will be a historic occasion for the veterans in this area. Through meeting with veterans’ organizations of the 28th district, it is clear that better access to healthcare is their top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invited the Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman so he can hear first hand what the veterans in my district are facing. He was very gracious to accept the invitation to South Texas, and all veterans are urged to attend and participate in this very important gathering.” The purpose of the meeting is for veterans to engage in a dialogue about critical veterans’ issues and specific problems experienced by veterans who live in South Texas. A strong advocate for veterans’ benefits, Congressman Cuellar stated that recent legislative activity by both chambers of Congress increased the Department of Veterans’ Affairs budget by $6.6 billion. This discretionary funding represents the largest annual increase to Veterans’ Affairs healthcare spending in the department’s 77-year history. “One of our greatest responsibilities is to protect our veterans who protected our country. It is a responsibility I take very seriously and am proud that we were able to increase this funding and help improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We appreciate Chairman Filner’s taking time off from his busy schedule to meet with the veterans of South Texas and hear their concerns.” For more information or for directions to the event, please call Eddie Zavala or Jose Luis Rodriguez at the local Laredo office at 956-725-0639.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Congressman Bob Filner, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, will be his special guest in Roma on Monday, August 6, 2007, to meet with veterans in an effort to address some of their top concerns. The meeting will take place at the VFW Post 9175, 1704 PFC Angel Moreno (17 Flores St.), from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. “This will be a historic occasion for the veterans in this area. Through meeting with veterans’ organizations of the 28th district, it is clear that better access to healthcare is their top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invited the Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman so he can hear first hand what the veterans in my district are facing. He was very gracious to accept the invitation to South Texas, and all veterans are urged to attend and participate in this very important gathering.” The purpose of the meeting is for veterans to engage in a dialogue about critical veterans’ issues and specific problems experienced by veterans who live in South Texas. A strong advocate for veterans’ benefits, Congressman Cuellar stated that recent legislative activity by both chambers of Congress increased the Department of Veterans’ Affairs budget by $6.6 billion. This discretionary funding represents the largest annual increase to Veterans’ Affairs healthcare spending in the department’s 77-year history. “One of our greatest responsibilities is to protect our veterans who protected our country. It is a responsibility I take very seriously and am proud that we were able to increase this funding and help improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We appreciate Chairman Filner’s taking time off from his busy schedule to meet with the veterans of South Texas and hear their concerns.” For more information or for directions to the event, please call Froy Garza at the local McAllen office at 956-631-4826.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.31.2007	Rio Grande City, TX – Staff members of Congressman Henry Cuellar’s office in McAllen were on hand to welcome representatives from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) upon their arrival at the Mobile Disaster Recovery Center (DRC) in Rio Grande City. FEMA recovery specialists will be in Rio Grande City from Monday, July 30 – Saturday, August 4, to assist victims of the recent flooding that ravaged through Starr County. The Mobile DRC is a one-stop shop where affected individuals can learn more about the disaster aid process and meet one-on-one with recovery specialists to check on the status of their application or to learn about other types of aid. Pictured in the photo from left are Pedro Santiago, FEMA Program Advisor; Charlie Cook, FEMA Mobile DRC Manager; Mario Garcia, Outreach Coordinator with the office of Congressman Cuellar; Norma Reyes, FEMA Office of Legislative Affairs; and Froy Garza, Hidalgo County Area Coordinator – office of Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
07.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Congressman Bob Filner, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, will be his special guest in Donna on Monday, August 6, 2007, to meet with veterans in an effort to address some of their top concerns. The meeting will take place at Donna High School, ½ Mile East Wood Avenue, from 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. “This will be a historic occasion for the veterans in this area. Through meeting with veterans’ organizations of the 28th district, it is clear that better access to healthcare is their top priority,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invited the Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman so he can hear first hand what the veterans in my district are facing. He was very gracious to accept the invitation to South Texas, and all veterans are urged to attend and participate in this very important gathering.” The purpose of the meeting is for veterans to engage in a dialogue about critical veterans’ issues and specific problems experienced by veterans who live in South Texas. A strong advocate for veterans’ benefits, Congressman Cuellar stated that recent legislative activity by both chambers of Congress increased the Department of Veterans’ Affairs budget by $6.6 billion. This discretionary funding represents the largest annual increase to Veterans’ Affairs healthcare spending in the department’s 77-year history. “One of our greatest responsibilities is to protect our veterans who protected our country. It is a responsibility I take very seriously and am proud that we were able to increase this funding and help improve healthcare for our veterans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We appreciate Chairman Filner’s taking time off from his busy schedule to meet with the veterans of South Texas and hear their concerns.” For more information or for directions to the event, please call Froy Garza at the local McAllen office at 956-631-4826.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3161, the FY 2008 Agricultural Appropriations Bill, which will strengthen rural communities, while making sure that Americans have safe and healthy food to eat. “This bill allows us to reinvest in rural America, protect public health and food safety, improve nutrition and health eating, and promote renewable energy and conservation in rural America,” said Congressman Cuellar, whose district is considered rural. The FY 2008 Agricultural Appropriations Bill invests a total of $91.5 billion and more than $990 million over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Food Aid, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Other Provisions: • Food Stamps: The measure provides funding for low-income families to purchase food• Child Nutrition Programs: Includes funding for various child nutrition programs that provide nutritious foods to pre-school children and children in elementary and secondary schools• Women, Infants and Children (WIC): This measure provides assistance to children up to five years of age, and to pregnant, postpartum, and breast-feeding women who are nutritionally at-risk because of inadequate nutrition and income. • Mad Cow Disease: The measure is requesting for a report from the FDA that details obstacles to complying with a new and upgraded rule regarding the prohibition of additional specified risk materials from ruminant and non-ruminant animal feed. • Food Safety: The measure requires the FDA to develop a performance plan that establishes measurable benchmarks for improvements in the performance of its food safety mission. The plan would comprehensively overhaul FDA’s food safety operations, covering both domestic and imported foods. • Rural Housing and Development: Under this measure, the Agriculture Department administers loan and grant programs targeted to underserved, impoverished, or economically declining rural areas. The programs included in this measure provide assistance for single and multifamily housing, community facilities and infrastructure and business development. Agriculture and Conservation Programs • Farm Service Agency: This • Agriculture Loans: Provides funding for a number of loans to farmers, including farm-operating, farm ownership and American Indian tribal-land acquisitions. • Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS): Includes funding for APHIS to conduct inspections and quarantine activities to protect animals and plants from diseases and pests. • Conservation Programs: Provides funding for conservation programs that assist private landowners in reducing erosion, improve soil and water quantity and quality, improve and conserve wetlands, and enhance fish and wildlife habitat. • Meat Labeling: The bill includes funding to implement country-of-origin meat labeling that states if it was a U.S.-raised and slaughtered, was of foreign origin, or if it contains meat from more than one country.• Future of Energy: The measure nearly doubles funding for renewable energy loans and grants to businesses to help grow the economy, create new jobs, lower energy prices, and reduce global warming. “Farming and ranching have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for agriculture growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding for new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.30.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Department of Health and Human Service’s Office of Head Start awarded a $17 million grant to the Texas Migrant Council (TMC) for the expansion of the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program. “This grant will have a tremendous impact on the lives of the many people the Texas Migrant Council serves. The well-being of my constituents is my most important priority. I will continue to make sure that programs like those provided by the Texas Migrant Council are adequately funded,” said Congressman Cuellar. The money awarded today will be used for the expansion of the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program; the program serves 8,000 children and 16,000 parents nationwide. The funding from this grant will allow this program to provide assistance to an additional 1,000 children and twice as many parents. TMC, which is also known as the New America Corporation, is headquartered in Laredo, but has a presence in eight states including: Texas, Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Iowa, Nevada and Oklahoma. In total, The Texas Migrant Council serves approximately 100,000 clients, including children and adults. The Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program is one of many programs that the TMC administers to those living in South Texas. Through its programs, the TMC serves close to 15,000 children and adults in the Laredo area. Close to 2,500 of these clients are served by the Migrant and Seasonal Head Start Program. Funded in part by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the TMC promotes school readiness by enhancing the social and cognitive development of children through education, health, nutrition, and social service programs. Parents who have children enrolled in TMC programs are also eligible to receive services from the organization. “My staff and I thank U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar for his continued support to the children and families in his district as exemplified by this $17 million grant that he helped secure,” said Mary Capello, Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Migrant Council. “We appreciate having a hard-working and highly-accessible Congressman in Henry Cuellar.” The TMC has been in existence since 1971. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.30.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a $47,288.00 grant will be awarded to the Poteet Independent School District (ISD) through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The Poteet ISD will receive $24,013.00 to be used for telecommunications services and $23,275 to be used for internet access. “E-rate provides our schools and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success, and I am proud that I have helped secure funds to benefit the kids in Poteet,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). It provides financial assistance to schools and libraries that need telecommunications services and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
07.30.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that the Department of Justice’s Office of Justice Programs has awarded the City of Laredo Housing Authority Weed and Seed Program a $200,000 grant to help curb criminal activities in targeted areas. “This is great news for the City of Laredo and the Housing Authority. This grant will improve security and help keep our citizens safe,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. As part of the Weed and Seed Program, law enforcement officials will focus on reducing gun-related and drug trafficking crime in areas served by the Laredo Housing Authority. Community policing efforts will also be modified in an effort to develop support and cooperation from the area’s residents, while at the same time introducing intervention and treatment goals. This will include programs aimed at reducing drug use and abuse. After-school programs aimed at curtailing the proliferation of gang activity will also be introduced. “The Laredo Housing Authority wants to thank Congressman Henry Cuellar for his support in helping us receive this $200,000.00 grant,” said Abraham Rodriguez, Director of the Laredo Housing Authority. “We look forward to the continued improvement of Laredo’s quality of life, and we thank Congressman Cuellar for the outstanding job he us doing.” Community policing embraces two key concepts – community engagement and problem solving. These strategies foster a sense of responsibility within the community for solving crime. These strategies also help develop cooperative relationships between police and the residents. “Our local law enforcement officers are here to assist the families, but they can not do it alone. They need the residents’ cooperation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I invite all the residents who receive services from the Laredo Housing Authority to get involved in this program so that together we can make our communities better places to live, and above all, free of crime.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
07.28.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, joined by United States Postal Service representatives, officially renamed the Rio Grande City Post Office as the Lino Perez Jr. Post Office. Perez is a south Texas resident who dedicated more than four decades of his life to the postal service. The renaming of the post office is the result of legislation Congressman Cuellar introduced, which was supported by his colleagues in Congress, and later signed into law by President Bush. “It is an honor to recognize the great contributions that Lino Perez Jr. made to his community in Starr County,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The naming of this post office in his honor commemorates his hard work and dedication to the residents of Rio Grande City.” Perez was born in Rio Grande City in 1914, and attended high school in South Texas and in Austin. He returned home to Rio Grande City shortly after graduation to begin his career with the post office in 1934 under the guidance of his father. After more than two decades working through the ranks at the Rio Grande City Post Office, Perez was named Postmaster of the same facility. His strong work ethics were instrumental in upgrading the Rio Grande City Post Office to a “2nd-class” facility. He established the city’s first mail delivery service, created several rural mail routes in Starr County, and helped lay the foundation for his community’s future growth. After 41 years of loyal service, Perez retired from the Rio Grande City Post Office, but is still warmly remembered by his family, friends, community, and former co-workers for the many contributions he made to the postal service. In addition to his busy work schedule, Perez still found time to get involved in his community. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus, and served as council President, State and International District Deputy, and Captain of the Guard. Perez eventually became Texas State Deputy, the highest Knights of Columbus position in the state. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.28.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $50,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the Jim Hogg County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Jim Hogg County will be eligible to receive $50,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $100,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with Starr County. “This is great news for the County of Jim Hogg. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.27.2007	Today, U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar hailed the Congressional passage of H.R. 1, Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, which makes air travel safer, improves screening cargo at our ports, protects America from weapons of mass destruction, and helps end terrorism. “Today, we are sending to the President’s desk one of the most critical bills of the 110th Congress – strong, comprehensive legislation that will make America safer by enacting the recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar, who serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, was appointed by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi to serve as a conferee to H.R.1, a conference made up of a select group of members of Congress who worked to implement the recommendations. “I know there are many issues facing our country, but there is nothing more important than making sure that all Americans feel safe in this country. And this is exactly what this bill does - it restores a sense of security to all Americans,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Having two major airports in my district and the fourth largest trade port in the nation, I know first hand how important it is for my constituents to feel safe at all times.” The bill also provides assistance to first responders by establishing a stand-alone communications interoperability grant program at the Department of Homeland Security to ensure that fire-fighters and police can communicate with each other in an emergency. Other key provisions in the Congress-passed bill include: • Homeland Security Grants: The bill ensures that homeland security grants will be allocated primarily on risk basis. The Department of Homeland Security will determine the funding that each state receives. more • Visa Waiver Program: The measure requires the Department of Homeland Security to establish an Electronic Travel Authorization system to prescreen individual Visa Waiver Program travelers against watchlists and other databases before they are approved for visa-free travel. • Aviation Security: The bill expands the screening of cargo on passenger aircraft by establishing a system for phasing in the inspection of 100 percent of cargo carried on passenger aircraft over the next three years. It also provides more funding for critical security programs. • Seaport Security: The measure requires that within five years, 100 percent of seaborne containers bound for the United States be scanned before leaving foreign ports. • Preventing Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction: The measure includes several provisions to take more aggressive steps to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. • Intelligence and Information Sharing with Local Law Enforcement: The measure strengthens state and local agencies “fusion” centers, which have been established to gather, analyze and disseminate potentially homeland security-relevant information to appropriate state and local officials. It also strengthens the presence of federal agencies, such as the Border Patrol, at fusion centers and also improves the Department of Homeland Security’s Information Sharing Programs. “As we near the sixth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on our country, I applaud my colleagues in Congress for implementing these recommendations,” said Congressman Cuellar. In January, H.R.1 was the first bill of the 110th Congress passed by the House. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
07.26.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $3.6 million funding provision requested by Rep. John Culberson of Houston, and supported by Congressman Cuellar, to help Texas border sheriffs crack down on criminal elements and activities. Rep. Culberson’s provision will make the Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition eligible to receive $3.6 million. If the provision is included in the final version of the bill, the $3.6 million will be divided according to need among sheriff’s departments that are members of the Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition and that apply for funds from the organization. “This is great news for Hidalgo, Starr, Webb, and Zapata counties. It’s evident that Members of Congress in Washington are aware of the need for more funding in this part of the country,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud their efforts in helping the Texas Sheriff’s Border Coalition combat crime in this region. These funds will have a tremendous impact among communities throughout the border region, including four of the counties I represent.” "Congressman Henry Cuellar is a tireless advocate for our Texas Border Sheriffs and I deeply appreciate his strong support for securing these $3.6 million,” said Congressman Culberson. Other key provisions in the Law Enforcement/Justice Department section of the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill include: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex traffickingmore• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $50,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the Wilson County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Wilson County will be eligible to receive $50,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $100,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with Atascosa County. “This is great news for the County of Wilson. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $50,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the Starr County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Starr County will be eligible to receive $50,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $100,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with Jim Hogg County. “This is great news for the County of Starr. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border more• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $100,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the McMullen County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, McMullen County will be eligible to receive $100,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $200,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with Frio County. “This is great news for the County of McMullen. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which makes large investments in restoring law enforcement assistance, helps make our communities safer, and invests in research for climatic changes. “Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me and something I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this bill, which ultimately means safer communities for residents in the 28th District.” The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border more • Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding for new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $100,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the Frio County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Frio County will be eligible to receive $100,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $200,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with McMullen County. “This is great news for the County of Frio. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. ####
07.25.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3093, the FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill, which includes a $50,000 provision requested by Congressman Cuellar that will help the Atascosa County Sheriff’s Department combat drug trafficking. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Atascosa County will be eligible to receive $50,000 to establish a drug task force to help fight drug trafficking, particularly methamphetamine production. This is part of $100,000 that Congressman Cuellar was able to obtain to be shared evenly with Wilson County. “This is great news for the County of Atascosa. This provision will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The FY 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill invests a total of $53.8 billion, an increase of almost $3.2 billion over last year’s budget and $2.3 billion over the President’s request. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: Law Enforcement/Justice Department: • Federal Bureau of Investigation: Provides funding to fill an additional 391 positions• Drug Enforcement Administration: Provides funding to assist with the removal and disposal of clandestine methamphetamine laboratories in the southwest border• Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS): Includes funding to restart the hiring process for the (COPS) program and for the purchase of bulletproof vests and for the creation of anti-gang initiatives• U.S. Attorney’s Office: Funds additional positions for child exploitation and obscenity investigations and for gang-related prosecution• Additional funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives• Includes funding for victims of slave and sex trafficking• Southwest Border Prosecutors: Includes funding for the handling and processing of drug and alien cases referred from federal arrests along the southwest border• Drug Courts: Provides state, local and tribal governments with grants, technical support, and training to create dedicated drug courts for non-violent offenders and develop an integrated mix of treatment, drug testing, incentives and sanctions• State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP): Will assist state and local governments with the costs of jailing undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes not related to their immigration status• Violence Against Women Office: Provides funding for the arrests in domestic violence cases and for prosecuting cases involving violence against women Commerce Department: • International Trade Administration: Provides funding for the ITA, whose mission is to create economic opportunity for U.S. workers and firms by promoting trade, opening foreign markets, and supporting U.S. commercial interests at home and abroad• Economic Development Administration: Includes funding measures for communities that are struggling with long-term economic problems, as well as those that are experiencing sudden, severe economic decline• Minority Business Development Agency: Includes funding to foster the creation, growth and expansion of minority-owned businesses “Commerce and international trade have always been extremely important for the 28th Congressional District of Texas, and with this bill, we will continue moving forward with the many initiatives that make this area a thriving hub for economic growth,” said Congressman Cuellar. Funding has also been allocated for science-related agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the National Science Foundation. Funding of new strategies to combat global warming is addressed in the bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.24.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3074, the FY 2008 Transportation - Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which includes a Cuellar provision for the widening and reconstruction of Thomas Road in McAllen, TX. Currently, the road is narrow, congested with traffic, and in a dilapidated condition. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Hidalgo County would be eligible to receive $250,000 to repair the road. “Working in Congress to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of Hidalgo County remains one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents in Hidalgo County receive the attention they deserve from the federal government.” The FY 2008 Transportation - Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill aids American families with affordable housing, helps modernize the transportation infrastructure, and creates jobs. The bill invests a total of $104.4 billion in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development departments, an increase of almost $6 billion over last year’s budget. “The passage of this bill means improved roadways and communities throughout our nation - including the 28th Congressional District - which are crucial components for the maintenance of a strong economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. The budget for the Transportation Department represents an increase of $2.4 billion over last year and $1.1 billion more than the President’s request. This bill specifically aims to improve and maintain the nation’s aging highway infrastructure, while at the same time creating almost 59,500 jobs across all sectors of the economy. The Federal Transit Administration, Federal Aviation Administration, Amtrak, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration also receive funding under this bill. In addition, the Housing and Urban Development Department will benefit under this bill, receiving $2 billion more than the 2007 budget and $3.1 million more than the President’s request. The bill provides funding for the Section 8 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program, supporting the renewal of 1.9 million vouchers and the addition of 4,000 new clients. The legislation also provides aid for the HOME Investments Partnership program, which provides downpayment assistance to those who want to purchase a home. “The availability of decent, affordable housing is important to all our citizens and I am committed to doing everything I can to provide greater access to suitable housing for all who seek it,” said Congressman Cuellar. Housing for senior citizens and people with disabilities, and the revitalization of distressed housing projects will also receive funding under this bill. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.24.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 3074, the FY 2008 Transportation - Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which includes a Cuellar provision for land acquisition and construction of a community park in Jim Hogg County. If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Jim Hogg County will be eligible to receive $150,000 to build a park that will include a senior citizen’s facility, baseball fields, an adult/child day care, plus other recreational facilities. “Working in Congress to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of Jim Hogg County remains one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of Jim Hogg County receive the attention they deserve from the federal government.” The FY 2008 Transportation - Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill aids American families with affordable housing, helps modernize the transportation infrastructure, and creates jobs. The bill invests a total of $104.4 billion in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development departments, an increase of almost $6 billion over last year’s budget. “The passage of this bill means improved roadways and communities throughout our nation - including the 28th Congressional District - which are crucial components for the maintenance of a strong economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. The budget for the Transportation Department represents an increase of $2.4 billion over last year and $1.1 billion more than the President’s request. This bill specifically aims to improve and maintain the nation’s aging highway infrastructure, while at the same time creating almost 59,500 jobs across all sectors of the economy. The Federal Transit Administration, Federal Aviation Administration, Amtrak, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration also receive funding under this bill. In addition, the Housing and Urban Development Department will benefit under this bill, receiving $2 billion more than the 2007 budget and $3.1 million more than the President’s request. The bill provides funding for the Section 8 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program, supporting the renewal of 1.9 million vouchers and the addition of 4,000 new clients. The legislation also provides aid for the HOME Investments Partnership program, which provides downpayment assistance to those who want to purchase a home. “The availability of decent, affordable housing is important to all our citizens and I am committed to doing everything I can to provide greater access to suitable housing for all who seek it,” said Congressman Cuellar. Housing for senior citizens and people with disabilities, and the revitalization of distressed housing projects will also receive funding under this bill. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.24.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced the House passage of H.R. 3074, the FY 2008 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill, which aids American families with affordable housing, helps modernize the transportation infrastructure, and creates jobs. The bill invests a total of $104.4 billion in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development departments, an increase of almost $6 billion over last year’s budget. “The passage of this bill means improved roadways and communities throughout our nation - including the 28th Congressional District - which are crucial components for the maintenance of a strong economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. The budget for the Transportation Department represents an increase of $2.4 billion over last year and $1.1 billion more than the President’s request. The bill specifically aims to improve and maintain the nation’s aging highway infrastructure, while at the same time creating almost 59,500 jobs across all sectors of the economy. The Federal Transit Administration, Federal Aviation Administration, Amtrak, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration also receive funding under this bill. In addition, the Housing and Urban Development Department will benefit under this bill, receiving $2 billion more than the 2007 budget and $3.1 billion more than the President’s request. The bill provides funding for the Section 8 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program, supporting the renewal of 1.9 million vouchers and the addition of 4,000 new clients. The legislation also provides aid for the HOME Investments Partnership program, which provides downpayment assistance to those who want to purchase a home. “The availability of decent, affordable housing is important to all our citizens and I am committed to doing everything I can to provide greater access to suitable housing for all who seek it,” said Congressman Cuellar. Housing for senior citizens and people with disabilities, and the revitalization of distressed housing projects will also receive funding under this bill. The bill will now go to the Senate for approval. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.23.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Dilley Independent School District (Dilley ISD) through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The Dilley Independent ISD will receive $34,212.96 to be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our schools and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success, and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Dilley,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. “These funds will enable us to provide internet for our instructional programs and help offset the costs of telephone services. Without these monies, it would be hard for Dilley ISD to continue the level of instructional opportunities we now afford our students,” said Dilley ISD Superintendent Dr. Jack Seals. “Dilley ISD thanks Congressman Cuellar for supporting our children.” E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). It provides financial assistance to schools and libraries that need telecommunications services and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
07.23.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Henry Cuellar’s Federal Customer Service Enhancement Act with strong bipartisan support. The Cuellar bill, which passed the House 383-0, will set in place standards to increase the quality of customer service provided by federal government agencies. “The federal government should cater to the American people. My bill will raise the bar for federal customer service and pave the way for citizens to have improved, easier transactions with federal agencies,” said Congressman Cuellar. “When people have business with a government agency, I want them to walk away feeling like the government is serving them well.” The Federal Agency Customer Service bill improves the level of attention in how the Federal Government interacts with the American people, other agencies, and Congress. It requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to develop performance measures that would determine whether or not federal agencies are providing high-quality customer service. It also sets standards for federal agencies to increase the quality of customer service to the public and enhances access to federal information and services. The legislation includes accountability provisions as well as incentives for federal employees who go above the requirements. The bill ensures that the initiatives outlined in this piece of legislation are achieved through the use of both external and internal reviews to Congress. “This bill will have positive effects around the country. I want to thank Congressman Ed Towns, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Government Management, Organization and Procurement, for his assistance in moving this legislation,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Improving the lives of American citizens is a responsibility that I take very seriously.” “The business community has long recognized the need for great customer relations. When people are satisfied with the services provided by a business, they become repeat customers. The same mentality and practices should be applied to government agencies,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I look forward to working with the Senate to move the legislation one step closer to becoming law.”Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.23.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Zapata County Independent School District (Zapata CISD) through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The Zapata CISD will receive $142,577.51 for internet access. “E-rate provides our schools and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Zapata,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. “We appreciate the continued support that Congressman Cuellar has given the Zapata County Independent School District. This grant will make a strong impact in the lives of our students,” said Zapata CISD Superintendent Romeo Rodriguez. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). It provides financial assistance to schools and libraries that need telecommunications services and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # #
07.23.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Lytle Public Library through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The Lytle Public Library will receive $1,085.18 for telecommunications services. “E-rate provides our schools and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success, and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Lytle,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunications services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). It provides financial assistance to schools and libraries that need telecommunications services and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
07.19.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the House passage of H.R. 3043, the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill, which makes key investments to strengthen America’s families – from education to health care to job training. “Providing a good and solid education to our students, making health care accessible to my constituents, and having a qualified and trained work force have always been priorities of mine, and this bill addresses all three issues,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for taking a stand and doing what is right for our fellow Americans.” Some of the key provisions of the bill include: • Making college more affordable for students• Helping to raise the achievement levels of American students• Investing in the skills of America’s workers• Expanding access to health care for the uninsured and investing in initiatives that will provide new access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans• Investing in life-saving medical research This bill calls for increasing college financial aid by $2 million over the 2007 budget and $3.2 million over the President’s request. In addition, it also provides an increase of $2 billion dollars over last year’s budget – and $1 million over the President’s request – for No Child Left Behind Programs. This includes an increase of $1.9 billion over 2007 for Title I programs, giving an additional 161,000 low-income children extra help with reading and math. The bill also takes important steps in funding several initiatives that will provide access to healthcare for more than 2 million uninsured Americans, including more funding for community health centers and state health access grants. Employment and training initiatives also benefit under this bill; it provides funding for vital programs such as Job Corps, dislocated worker training, and job placement assistance for at-risk youth. Funding for life-saving medical research into diseases such as cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s is also included in the bill. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.19.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the House passage of H.R. 3043, the 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill, which includes a Cuellar provision for a mobile health center for Mercy Ministries of Laredo. “The Texas-Mexico border historically has been underserved with medical professionals, and this new unit will help alleviate that problem,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud the efforts of Mercy Ministries in taking the lead and providing services to our citizens who need access to health care.” If this provision is included in the final version of the bill, Mercy Ministries of Laredo would be eligible to receive $100,000 to purchase a new mobile health center and provide services to uninsured and underinsured residents in Webb County. The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Appropriations Bill makes key investments to strengthen America’s families – from education to health care to job training. Some of the key provisions of the bill include: • Making college more affordable for students• Helping to raise the achievement levels of American students • Investing in the skills of America’s workers• Expanding access to health care for the uninsured and investing in initiatives that will provide new access to health care for more than 2 million uninsured Americans• Investing in life-saving medical research “Providing a good and solid education to our students, making health care accessible to my constituents, and having a qualified and trained work force have always been priorities of mine, and this bill addresses all three issues,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I applaud my colleagues in the House for taking a stand and doing what is right for our fellow Americans.” The bill calls for increasing college financial aid by $2 billion over the 2007 budget and $3.2 billion over the President’s request. In addition, it also provides an increase of $2 billion dollars over last year’s budget – and $1 billion over the President’s request – for No Child Left Behind Programs. This includes an increase of $1.9 billion over 2007 for Title I programs, giving an additional 161,000 low-income children extra help with reading and math. This bill also takes important steps in funding several initiatives that will provide access to healthcare for more than 2 million uninsured Americans, including more funding for community health centers and state health access grants. Employment and training initiatives also benefit under this bill; it provides funding for vital programs such as Job Corps, dislocated worker training, and job placement assistance for at-risk youth. Funding for life-saving medical research into diseases such as cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s is also included in the bill. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.19.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced today that, through a partnership with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Commerce, Texas will be eligible to receive $65,069,247 of the $968,385,000 that have been awarded to help state and local first responders improve public safety communications and coordination during a natural disaster or homeland security threat. “This is great news for this part of the state. It will improve security and help keep our citizens safe. Securing the safety of my constituents in an efficient manner is important to me,” said Congressman Cuellar, who is the Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response. The Public Safety Interoperable Communications (PSIC) grants will provide funding for first responders and emergency management coordinators to purchase communications systems. This will help emergency crews communicate via voice, data, and/or video signals. Within the next month, the State of Texas must submit an application of interest. The amount of money to be received by the state will be confirmed by September 30, 2007. Once the amount of money that Texas will receive is confirmed, the state will have to justify how these dollars will be spent. A state-wide plan will be submitted to the Department of Homeland Security outlining how the money will be distributed throughout Texas. Once the state-wide plan is approved, the money is expected to reach the state starting in March 2008. Currently, first responders from different agencies use distinct communication tools that impede critical communication among firefighters, police and other emergency personnel during a disaster. “One of my priorities is to make sure that our first responders are adequately equipped and that all agencies are able to communicate with each other during any type of emergency,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I thank Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and Department of Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez for working with state agencies and bringing these dollars to where they are mostly needed.” PSIC funds were allocated using a formula that considers threats, vulnerabilities and consequences to determine risk. Grant funded projects must be completed by the end of Fiscal Year 2010. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
07.18.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced the House passage of H.R. 2641, the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which calls for the promotion of energy independence and the reduction of global warming. With the passage of the bill, the House is taking action to lessen the dependence on foreign oil and cut greenhouse emissions. The bill invests $3 billion - $1 billion more than President Bush’s request – to research global warming and to work on new technologies and renewable energy to slow it down. In addition, it also includes a 50 percent increase over the President’s request in energy efficiency and renewable energy. The bill calls for research and development of alternative fuels, such as corn based and cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel. “It is imperative to me that my constituents have secure, healthy environments to live in, and addressing our energy crisis is one of them,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Working in Congress to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of Texas remains one of my top priorities.” The bill calls for investing in long-term research for developing the next generation of scientific breakthroughs, supporting 3,500 additional researchers and allowing almost all of the science facilities to continue operating at maximum capacity. It also focuses attention on the need to improve U.S. waterways and flood protection. “We need to sustain the coastal and inland navigation infrastructure critical to the U.S. economy and at the same time, we need to close the gaps in flood protection,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I commend my colleagues in the House in passing this bill and I encourage our Senate counterparts to preserve these important provisions as the bill moves through Congress.” Nearly 80 percent – or $25.243 billion - of the bill’s $31.6 billion will be used for Energy Department programs; $5.584 billion will be sent to the Army Corps of Engineers; and $1.073 billion will be allocated for the Department of the Interior. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.18.2007	Yesterday, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted in favor of the passage of H.R. 2641, the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which includes a Cuellar provision for an Energy-Efficient Green Campus Research Initiative at Texas A&M International University (TAMIU). “As part of this initiative, TAMIU will expand on green practices already in place, and at the same time, aggressively undertake other technologies, such as the use of solar panels,” said Congressman Cuellar. "I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this bill and I am hopeful that the final version also includes the provision for TAMIU.” The TAMIU initiative will be a joint collaboration between the university and the Texas Engineering Experiment Station (TEES). Included in the TAMIU provision are $500,000 that will help the university develop and implement a Green Campus strategy for greater energy and resource efficiency with the assistance of the Energy Systems Laboratory and TEES. The university will also obtain certification in Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) from the US Green Building Council for a new Student Success Center as a highly visible cornerstone. As part of the initiative, TAMIU will also design and develop a “plug and play” test-bed feature within the new Student Success Center mechanical and control systems to facilitate future research on high-efficient building systems and renewable technologies. “With all the focus on green and renewable energy it makes sense for TAMIU to take the lead in implementing cutting-edge technology,” said Congressman Cuellar. This bill invests $3 billion - $1 billion more than President Bush’s request – to research global warming and to work on new technologies and renewable energy. In addition, it also includes a 50 percent increase over the President’s request in energy efficiency and renewable energy. The bill also calls for research and development of alternative fuels, such as corn based and cellulosic ethanol and biodiesel. In addition, it addresses the reduction of dependence on foreign oil and greenhouse gas emissions and calls for investing in long-term research for developing the next generation of scientific breakthroughs. The bill also focuses attention on the need to improve U.S. waterways and flood protection. Nearly 80 percent – or $25.243 billion - of the bill’s $31.6 billion will be used for Energy Department programs; $5.584 billion will be sent to the Army Corps of Engineers; and $1.073 billion will be allocated for the Department of the Interior. The bill is still pending Senate action, full Congressional approval, and the President’s signature. President Bush has threatened to veto this appropriations measure. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.18.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi named him as a conferee to H.R.1, Improving American Security Act of 2007. As a member of this conference, Congressman Cuellar will work with a select group of members of Congress to implement the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. "I thank Speaker Pelosi and Homeland Security Chairman Benny Thompson for believing in me and for naming me to the conference,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I know there are many issues facing our country, but there is nothing more important than making sure that all Americans feel safe in this country. And this is exactly what this bill does - it restores a sense of security to all Americans. As we near the sixth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on our country, it is imperative that these recommendations are implemented quickly.” As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, Congressman Cuellar said he will use his expertise in safety matters to ensure that the recommendations are implemented. As a member of Congress representing the U.S.-Mexico border, Congressman Cuellar brings a unique perspective on security issues. After negotiations are considered and a mutual agreement is made by the House and Senate on the final language of the bill, both chambers will vote on it again and send it to the President for his signature. H.R.1 was the first bill of the 110th Congress passed by the House. It calls for the implementation of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. Some of the provisions in the bill include improving homeland security, preventing terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction (WMD), and authorizing strategies for curbing the appeal of extremism around the world. Other key provisions in the House-passed bill include: • Improving the explosive screening of checked baggage at airports by requiring the installation of the latest in-line explosive detection systems. • Expanding the screening of cargo on passenger aircraft by establishing a system for phasing in the inspection of 100 percent of cargo carried on passenger aircraft over the next three years. • Beefing up efforts to prevent the proliferation of WMD by including strengthening the Defense Department’s Nunn-Lugar program, strengthening the Energy Department’s Global Threat Reduction Initiative, and creating a Coordinator for the Prevention of WMD Proliferation, who would also serve as Presidential Advisor. “Implementing the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission has been a top priority for this Congress,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is not only an honor to serve on this important conference, but a duty that I know will impact critical policies important to America and to the border,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip. # # # #
07.12.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $789,000 loan and awarded a $640,000 grant to the City of Cotulla. The combined total of $1,429,000 will be used to improve 1,384 water connections, which includes approximately 30,900 linear feet of water lines. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help communities in need. The infrastructure improvements that will be generated from this funding will have a profound impact on those who live in Cotulla, and I congratulate the City of Cotulla on the receipt of this award,” Rep. Cuellar said. The proposed pipelines will replace old and undersized lines, and will also provide residents with adequate water supply and pressure. “I commend the exceptional work that Congressman Cuellar is doing for us in Washington. He truly has the best interest of our citizens in mind,” said Cotulla Mayor Abel Gonzalez. “He understands our needs and always comes through for his constituents. The citizens of Cotulla are very appreciative of everything he continues to do to help improve our infrastructure.” The money for this project was made available through the Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program offered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Office. “When federal funding is applied to local projects, the citizens of Texas experience an improved quality of life. Securing progress and the continued well-being of my constituents is very important to me,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.12.2007	The House of Representatives passed legislation that will make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of students and families pay for college – and doing so at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. The legislation - the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (H.R. 2669) - which Congressman Cuellar advocated for and voted in favor, will boost college financial aid by about $18 billion over the next five years. The legislation pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $19 billion. It also includes nearly $1 billion in federal budget deficit reduction. “As a strong proponent of education, I voted in favor of this bill because it is critical in making sure that all students have access to a post-high school education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This bill will also make a landmark investment of $500 million in minority-serving institutions over five years.” Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship will increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant will reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006, thus restoring the Pell’s purchasing power. About 6 million low- and moderate-income students would benefit from this increase. “We will see an average savings of $4,550 in interest per student over the life of the loan at a 4-year school in Texas,” Congressman Cuellar noted. On average, the typical student at a four-year public school of higher learning in Texas leaves with a debt of $14,233. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. Like legislation passed by the House earlier this year, the College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year, with approximately 205,508 coming from Texas. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that will ease the financial burden imposed on students and families by the cost of college, including: o Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schools; o Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; o Increased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; o New tuition cost containment strategies; and o Landmark investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions and minority serving institutions. A broad coalition of student advocacy groups and labor organizations support the College Cost Reduction Act. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.11.2007	Today, United States Congressman Henry Cuellar praised the decision of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to selecting a site in San Antonio as one of the five nationwide finalists for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF). The Texas Research Park in northwest San Antonio is a possible site to host the 520,000-acre facility and Congressman Cuellar has been strongly supportive of the effort to bring NBAF to South Texas. Sites in four other states are also vying for the facility. The proposed facility will provide animal testing capabilities needed for the licensure of human disease vaccines, defend against high-consequence human and foreign animal diseases in livestock, and provide the essential DHS infrastructure requirements for threat characterization, forensics and detection. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response and as a member of the Agriculture Committee, I am extremely pleased that the Department of Homeland Security is considering the City of San Antonio as a possible site,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Preventing bioterrorism attacks against the U.S. agriculture through the introduction of animal diseases is very important to me. I will continue to do everything possible to bring this important facility to South Texas.” The DHS is currently working with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to identify several diseases to the U.S. animal industry that will be studied at the facility. These diseases include, but are not limited to, Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), Classical Swine Fever (CSF), African Swine Fever (ASF), Rift Valley Fever (RVF), Nipah and Hendra Viruses, Contagious Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), and Japanese Encephalitis (JE) virus. The research conducted at NBAF will focus on developing tests to detect the diseases and countermeasures to prevent them. The final site selection will be completed by October 2008, with construction starting in 2010. The new facility is expected to be in operation by 2013-2014. Once fully operational, the testing facility will be home to about 250-300 jobs, including researchers, technical support staff, and operations specialists. “This is a very positive step for both San Antonio and the nation. This new facility will meet the research needs of the nation, and if the San Antonio site is selected, the local economy will also benefit,” Congressman Cuellar said. “With the elite group of researchers we currently have in Texas, it makes sense that this facility comes to San Antonio.” The new facility will replace the current aging NBAF facility at Plum Island, NY, which is over 50 years old. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.11.2007	“I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Lady Bird Johnson today. She was a great Texan, but above all, she was an exceptional First Lady, wife and mother,” said U.S. Congressman Henry Cuellar, TX-28. "Her tireless work for the beautification of America and her dedication to the founding of the Headstart Program will forever be her legacy. Her death is a great loss to Texas and to the nation. I extend my most sincere condolences to the Johnson Family, in particular to her daughters Lynda Bird and Luci Baines.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.11.2007	Today, United States Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that Webb and Starr Counties have been added to the Federal Disaster Declaration as a result of the severe thunderstorms that swept through the areas last month. Individuals affected by the ravaging waters are now eligible to apply for federal disaster assistance though the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). To apply for assistance, individuals should register by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or going online at www.fema.gov. Whether applying online or by telephone, residents must have their social security number, current and pre-disaster addresses, a contact phone number, insurance information, total household annual income, a description of losses caused by the disaster, as well as a bank routing and account number ready if they prefer to have disaster assistance funds transferred directly into their bank account. “I applaud the addition of Webb and Starr Counties to the disaster declaration,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I have seen first hand the damage that these thunderstorms caused in both counties, and want to assure the residents who were affected by these storms that I will do everything in my ability to get them back on their feet as soon as possible.” As part of the disaster declaration, FEMA-1709-DR, people affected by the heavy rains and flooding will be able to apply for aid under the Individuals and Households Program (IHP), which provides assistance or direct services to individuals affected by the disaster who have necessary expenses and are unable to meet their needs through other financial means. According to FEMA, up to $28,200 is available in financial assistance, although some forms of IHP are limited and the amount may be adjusted each year. IHP assistance includes temporary housing, repair, replacement, semi-permanent or permanent housing construction, and other needs, including personal property and other items. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I will make it a priority to ensure that funds make their way to these two counties and help as many people as possible,” Congressman Cuellar noted. Congressman Cuellar also thanks local city and county officials for working diligently to ensure that these two counties received the attention they deserve. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.07.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the College Cost Reduction Act that included an important amendment offered by Rep. Henry Cuellar. The Cuellar Amendment requires the careful consideration of the potential consequences of alterations to the Federal Family Education Loan Programs (FFELP). The FFELP provides more than $50 billion in low-cost loans every year, servicing over six million students and their families. The Cuellar Amendment will ensure that studies done on the effects an auction system would have on the FFELP will be evaluated by Congress before any changes are implemented. “I have seen the benefits of strong student loan programs and services in my state, and this bill takes a crucial step in reducing the cost of college for students nationwide. I applaud my colleagues for passing this timely and important bill and including my amendment,” said Cuellar. The College Cost Reduction Act aims to make higher education available to more students across the nation. It seeks to increase the purchasing power of Pell grants, make student loans more affordable and increase student loan forgiveness, especially in areas of need. The bill calls for a state and federal commitment to reducing the cost of college. “Making college affordable and accessible to every student in the nation has to be one of our top priorities. With a commitment to the education of every American, we will help to create a workforce that is educated and competitive in the global economy,” Cuellar continued. “When we work to extend educational opportunity to every corner of our great nation, we build for improvements for generations to come. This bill and my amendment represent the priorities of nation. We will continue to strive to create good legislation that will better the lives of the American people,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.03.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the La Joya Independent School District (ISD) has been selected to receive funding to support professional development for U.S. history teachers. The grant of $1 million was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education through the Teaching American History Grants Program. An official check presentation will occur in early August. The program is designed to raise student achievement by improving teachers’ knowledge, understanding and appreciation of traditional U.S. history. Grant awards will assist local education agencies, in partnership with entities that have expertise, to develop and disseminate innovative models of professional development. “I congratulate Superintendent Alda Benavides and other La Joya ISD educators for their hard work in bringing this grant to the schools in La Joya. Their continued hard work and dedication will make a difference in the quality of education provided to the children of La Joya,” said Cuellar. “We are so excited about this grant. We have a lot of plans for this district, and we are united in trying to achieve our goals. We are so excited about this opportunity that we are literally doing cartwheels in the office!,” said Martha Trevino, Grants Development Coordinator. These programs are designed to help teachers develop a deeper understanding and appreciation of U.S. history and translate this to their students. The $1 million grant to La Joya ISD is anticipated to be renewed for two years following the initial one-year time period. “American history can teach our students so much about the world today. I am pleased that we were able to bring federal funding to such a worthwhile project. Knowing that I have a role in bettering the education for kids in Texas gives me great pride and satisfaction,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Zapata County has been awarded a Colonia-Construction grant in the amount of $500,000 for first-time sewer services. The grant was made available through the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBGP) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The purpose of this grant is to support community development projects such as sewer, water and housing rehabilitation to county applicants for projects in unincorporated, eligible non-border colonia areas. Such areas are determined eligible based on objective criteria including lack of potable water supply, adequate sewage systems and sanitary housing. These areas are located farther than 150 miles from the Texas-Mexico border. “The residents of the colonias in Zapata County deserve to enjoy a certain standard of living conditions. I am currently working in Congress to spur economic growth in colonias, which will help to raise the quality of life for the residents of these communities,” said Cuellar. In Zapta County, the grant will be used to provide sewer services to households located in the Falcon Lake Estates West. The 5,700 feet of sewer lines will create new connections for 44 homes. The funds provided by this CDBGP grant can be used for water and wastewater improvements, including first-time service, and for housing rehabilitation for low-income households. Other projects, including street paving and drainage, can be completed using the money provided by a CDBGP grant. The CDBGP program is administered by the Texas Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA). “This project will change the lives of the residents of Zapata County. Currently, there is no sewer system in place in the specified area, which poses a health hazard that has to be rectified. I will continue to work in Congress to bring resources to these citizens,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
07.02.2007	As a result of the efforts by Congressman Henry Cuellar, the Department of Veterans’ Affairs has agreed to make improvements to increase veterans’ access to local healthcare options in South Texas. These improvements and added services include: Enhanced Local Services • Audiology/Hearing Aids• Dental Services• Optometry Services/Eyeglasses New Local Services • CT/MRI Scans• Diabetic Eye Photo Services• Orthopedics• Physical and Occupational Therapy• Prosthetics (Evaluation & Training)• Sleep Disorder Care• Minor surgeries on a case-by-case basis Options for Local Services to be Added in the Future • Oncology and Cancer Care VETERANS’ FUNDING FROM CONGRESS Just last month, Rep. Henry Cuellar supported and voted for the passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008. The bill provides generously for veterans, including the largest increase in funding in the 77-year history of the VA. Key Funding For Veterans • The bill appropriates a total of $109.2 billion for military construction and veterans programs. • $37.1 billion is designated for veterans’ health programs, which is a $3.1 billion increase over the current level. • A transfer of $15 million to the Defense Department/VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund. The funds will be used to improve the continuity of health care for veterans. • $4.1 billion will be used for the operation and maintenance of veterans’ hospitals and other medical facilities. • $41.2 billion will be spent on mandatory spending for veterans’ compensation benefits and pensions. This will allow 3.2 million beneficiaries to receive compensation benefits and provide pension payments for over half a million veterans with disabilities. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
07.02.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the veterans of South Texas will have increased local access to quality healthcare services. As a result of Cuellar’s collaboration with the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA), local veterans’ organizations and his colleagues in Washington, D.C., the VA will be offering new healthcare options to the veterans of South Texas. “As I met with veterans from my district, I was hearing two things: that they needed better access to healthcare, and they needed services closer to their homes. The men and women who serve our country deserve the very best healthcare that we can give them. I commend Tim Shea and his team at the VA for taking the steps to provide our veterans with quality local healthcare,” said Cuellar. Currently, limited services are offered and many veterans have to travel to San Antonio for regular appointments as well as specialized services. With the new and enhanced services offered by the VA at the local level, the veterans of South Texas will be able to avoid undue and prohibitive travel, and receive better healthcare in their community. The veterans of South Texas have expressed the need for many services to be provided locally that they will now have access to, such as CT and MRI scans and physical therapy. Other new services will include orthopedics, prosthetics, sleep disorder care and minor surgeries on a case-by-case basis. These new services will generate approximately $1 million of revenue for the Laredo area. Not only will the local veterans benefit, but the local economy will be bolstered as well. For these improvements, solicitations on the street will happen by September of this year, with contracts being awarded by November 2007. “As a Congressman, it is my job to help better the lives of our veterans. It is a responsibility I take very seriously, and I am proud that we were able to facilitate these much-needed improvements to local healthcare options,” said Cuellar. “I will continue to work with the VA and veterans’ organizations to improve the status of local healthcare. The health and well-being of the brave men and women who serve this country is very important to me. I will keep looking for ways to bring improvements to the services provided to our veterans,” continued Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.29.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Lytle Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” The Lytle Independent School District (ISD) will receive $90,933.70 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Lytle,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Two grants were awarded to the Lytle ISD. The first grant of $53,778.65 will be used for internet access, while the second grant of $37,155.05 will be used for telecommunications. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
06.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the McMullen Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the McMullen County Independent School District (MCISD) with a ceremonial check for $35,960.57 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in McMullen County,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” The first grant of $26,502awarded to the MCISD will be used for telecommunications. The second grant of $9,458.57 will be used for internet access. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
06.28.2007	“Before any border fence construction begins, the federal agencies must take into account input from local border communities. I have worked to open and continue a dialogue between local communities and high-ranking officials from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and SBINet. Already, we have seen increased outreach efforts by these federal agencies. “In Congress, I also worked to include language in legislation to ensure the consideration of this local input, give the DHS more latitude in implementing border infrastructure projects, and to call attention to the potential environmental impact a fence would have on border communities. It is imperative that those people who will be affected by the building of a fence have their voices heard at in the halls of Congress. “The American people have called for more secure borders and comprehensive immigration reform. I am committed to doing my part in Congress to develop solutions that will address immigration and secure our borders, while not affecting the international trade and tourism that is vital to our economy. “Immigration reform must encompass several factors: we need to know who is crossing our borders and when, we need to develop a feasible guest worker program, and we have to find a solution for the millions of immigrants living in this country right now. I have been to the White House and spoken with the president, and I believe that we will come together to generate real reform. “I will continue to fight to make the concerns of border citizens a priority for Congress and the country. I am dedicated to bringing about real, lasting solutions to the challenges presented at our international borders.”Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.26.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Wilson County has been awarded a Disaster Relief grant in the amount of $350,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds will be used for street improvements and repairs. With this grant, contractors will be able to make repairs to damaged roads resulting from March 2007 flooding. The street improvements will occur in Precincts Two and Four. Through the installation of gravel, regarding and compacting of roads, and replacement of damaged culverts, 107 areas of county roads will be repaired. “I congratulate Wilson County on receiving this grant. We must continue to work together to invigorate local growth and progress,” said Cuellar. The grant is made available through the Community Development Block Grant Program of the HUD. It will be administered by the Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA) through the Texas Community Development Block Grant (TxCDBG) Program. These funds could be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, particularly for low-income citizens. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that Wilson County benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.26.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar hailed the passage of the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, including an amendment to increase funds for the Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF). Rep. Cuellar and the entire border delegation worked closely with Chairman Norm Dicks of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies to increase funding to this important program. “I commend Chairman Dicks for putting forth such an important piece of legislation. As a result of his leadership and collaboration, we have succeeded in increasing funding for water projects that are crucial to border communities,” said Cuellar. Since 1997, the BEIF program has provided essential funding support for drinking water and wastewater projects along the U.S.-Mexico border. These projects have created environmental and health benefits for the citizens of border communities. To date, several Texas projects have been certified by the Border Environment Cooperation Commission and have already benefited from these funds. The cities of Alton, Laredo, Roma, and Pharr, the most-recently certified Texas project, have received commitments for more than $30 million of previously appropriated BEIF funds to support much-needed improvements to water and wastewater infrastructure. “The BECC sincerely appreciates the efforts of Congressman Cuellar and his fellow distinguished members of the Border Caucus to increase the funding recommendation for EPA's US-Mexico Border Program. This action demonstrates the commitment of Congress to improving the quality of life along the US-Mexico Border and we look forward to sharing the positive impacts resulting from this investment,” said Daniel Chacon, BECC General Manager. Rep. Cuellar worked with Rep. Dicks to make sure that his amendment improved funding to BEIF projects. The amendment increased funding by $15 million, bringing the total to $25 million for the program. Many of the projects will be undertaken in rural communities and designated colonias. “The need in these areas for water and wastewater improvements is great,” said Cuellar. “I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to preserve this amendment. I hope that we can further increase the funding during the conference process. Without the opportunity for federally-funded projects, the health and environment in these communities will deteriorate.” “It is imperative to me that my constituents have secure, healthy environments to live in. Working in Congress to ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of Texas remains one of my top priorities. I take my responsibility to better the lives of the people of Texas to heart,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that two grants will be awarded to Poteet Elementary and Intermediate schools through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” Poteet Elementary School will receive a $6,445 grant, and Poteet Intermediate School will receive a grant for $4,003. “E-rate provides our schools and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success, and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Poteet,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Both grants will be used for internal connections management. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
06.22.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the McAllen Housing Authority has been awarded $160,786 by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds will be used for relocation assistance for families in Retama Apartments. “I congratulate the city of McAllen on receiving this grant. This grant will provide critical resources to assist people with their relocation. I will continue to work to bring services and resources to the citizens of McAllen,” said Cuellar. The money comes through the Housing Choice Vouchers and Public Housing Relocation programs of HUD. They were authorized by the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 to help citizens relocate from buildings scheduled for demolition. The Retama Apartment building is slated for demolition in conjunction with the HUD-approved disposition plan. “Making sure that we help the residents of the Retama Apartments successfully relocate is a responsibility of our local and federal governments. These funds will help these families smoothly transition to their new homes,” said Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar and Congressman Ruben Hinojosa recently co-hosted a Federal Grants Workshop in McAllen. They provided Grants Specialists from their staffs and recruited other agencies to help guide their constituents through the process of applying for and receiving federal grants. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that the people of McAllen benefit from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.21.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the city of Stockdale has been awarded a Disaster Relief grant in the amount of $129,640 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds will be used for sewer facilities, street improvements, drainage improvements and park improvements. With this grant, contractors will be able to make repairs to damaged facilities resulting from March 2007 flooding. New reinforcements will be made to support the existing sewer lines, and construction will take place along Highway 87 across from Stockdale Creek. Street repairs will occur on 4th, 6th and Sample Streets and at the city park. “I congratulate the city of Stockdale on receiving this grant. We must continue to work together to invigorate local growth and progress,” said Cuellar. “We are happy because these funds will provide such necessary aid to the citizens of Stockdale,” said Carl Lambeck, City Manager. The grant is made available through the Community Development Block Grant Program of the HUD. It will be administered by the Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA) through the Texas Community Development Block Grant (TxCDBG) Program. These funds could be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, particularly for low-income citizens. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that Wilson County benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.20.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the City of Penitas has been awarded $4,360,000 for the development of a new wastewater system. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development office has approved a direct loan in the amount of $1,364,000 and a development grant in the amount of $2,996,000. The proposed funds will be used to construct a mechanical wastewater treatment plant, lift stations, a grinder pump station and 450 house connections. This is Phase I of three phases. When completed, the project will benefit approximately 1,200 families living in and around the incorporated City limits of Penitas. It will double the amount of house connections currently in place. “These improvements will make an amazing difference for the citizens of Penitas. My office has worked closely with Mayor Servando Ramirez and I want to congratulate him and the other city officials who have dedicated so much time to bring these funds to the City of Penitas,” said Cuellar. “We are very excited because this project will not only benefit the residents within the City of Penitas, but it will also create the opportunity for increased economic development,” said Oscar Cuellar, City Manager. “This project will change the lives of the residents of Penitas. Currently, there is no sewer system in place, which poses a health hazard that has to be rectified. I will continue to work in Congress to bring resources to these citizens,” said Cuellar. “I am currently working to move legislation that will spur economic growth in colonia areas to escalate progress and improvements in these communities.”Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
06.20.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that McMullen County has been awarded a Colonia-Construction grant in the amount of $500,000 for first-time sewer service. The grant was made available through the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBGP) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The purpose of this grant is to support community development projects such as sewer, water and housing rehabilitation to county applicants for projects in unincorporated, eligible non-border colonia areas. Such areas are determined eligible based on objective criteria including lack of potable water supply, adequate sewage systems and sanitary housing. These areas are located farther than 150 miles from the Texas-Mexico border. “The residents of the colonias in McMullen County deserve to enjoy a certain standard of living conditions. I am currently working in Congress to spur economic growth in colonias, which will help to raise the quality of life for the residents of these communities,” said Cuellar. In McMullen County, the grant will be used to provide sewer service to 28 homes that have no existing system in place. The 4,000 feet of sewer lines will extend to beneficiaries on Deer Run Street and Quail Trail Street. The funds provided by this CDBGP grant can be used for water and wastewater improvements, including first-time service, and for housing rehabilitation for low-income households. Other projects, including street paving and drainage, can be completed using the money provided by a CDBGP grant. The CDBGP program is administered by the Texas Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA). “This project will change the lives of the residents of McMullen County. Currently, there is no sewer system in place, which poses a health hazard that has to be rectified. I will continue to work in Congress to bring resources to these citizens,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
06.20.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Guadalupe County has been awarded a Non-Border Colonia grant in the amount of $250,000 for sewer system improvements. The grant was made available through the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBGP) of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The purpose of this grant is to support community development projects such as sewer, water and housing rehabilitation to county applicants for projects in unincorporated, eligible non-border colonia areas. Such areas are determined eligible based on objective criteria including lack of potable water supply, adequate sewage systems and sanitary housing. These areas are located farther than 150 miles from the Texas-Mexico border. “The residents of the colonias in Guadalupe County deserve to enjoy a certain standard of living conditions. I am currently working in Congress to spur economic growth in colonias, which will help to raise the quality of life for the residents of these communities,” said Cuellar. In Guadalupe County, the grant will be used to replace 40 failing septic tanks located in the Redwood and Rancho Vista colonias. The funds provided by this CDBGP grant can be used for water and wastewater improvements, including first-time service, and for housing rehabilitation for low-income households. Other projects, including street paving and drainage, can be completed using the money provided by a CDBGP grant. The CDBGP program is administered by the Texas Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA). “This project will change the lives of the residents of Guadalupe County. Currently, there is an inadequate sewer system in place, which poses a health hazard that has to be rectified. I will continue to work in Congress to bring resources to these citizens,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
06.19.2007	Today, Congressman Cuellar joined the majority in passing The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. Cuellar was instrumental in increasing funding for levee projects through the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (IBWC). He also successfully included language in the bill to fight the illegal trafficking of drugs, arms, cash and people along the Texas-Mexico border. As Hidalgo County’s new Congressman, Cuellar also turned his attention to the rising need for levee funding for the IBWC. On March 16, 2007, Congressman Cuellar and Congressmen Ruben Hinojosa and Solomon Ortiz sent a letter to Rep. Lowey asking for additional funding for the IBWC. The IBWC is responsible for the maintenance of more than 500 miles of levees along the U.S.-Mexico border, many of which are too weak or too low to withstand a major rain event. The State and Foreign Operations bill includes a $13,205,000 increase in funds over the 2007 level for the IBWC for a total of $15,725,000 for construction alone. “Just this week, Texas saw an unprecedented amount of rainfall. We must take the steps now to make sure that the levee systems are prepared, ready and able to weather serious storms. I am proud that we have done our part in the U.S. House of Representatives to increase the security and well-being of citizens who live in these areas,” said Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar worked to ensure that this bill recognizes the increasing instability along the Texas-Mexico border, including the illegal trafficking of people. In the report language, the Appropriations Committee ensures that funds made available under International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE) be used to support the fight against human, drug and weapons smuggling. “The issue of Missing Americans is one that is heart-breaking for the people of my district. I commend Chairwoman Nita Lowey of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs for recognizing this timely and serious problem,” said Cuellar. “The time has come to address issues that are critical to not only citizens of our border communities, but across the country. When we improve our borders and increase safety for citizens at the borders, we are taking steps towards building a more secure America. I commend my colleagues in the House in passing this bill and encourage our Senate counterparts to preserve these important provisions as the bill moves through Congress,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.19.2007	Today, Congressman Cuellar joined the majority in passing The State and Foreign Operations Appropriations bill. Cuellar was instrumental in including language in the bill to fight the illegal trafficking of drugs, arms, cash and people along the Texas-Mexico border. He was also successful in increasing funding for levee projects through the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (IBWC). “The issue of Missing Americans is one that is heart-breaking for the people of my district. I commend Chairwoman Nita Lowey of the Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs for recognizing this timely and serious problem,” said Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar worked to ensure that this bill recognizes the increasing instability along the Texas-Mexico border, including the illegal trafficking of people. In the report language, the Appropriations Committee encourages that funds made available under International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement (INCLE) be used to support the fight against human, drug and weapons smuggling. As Hidalgo County’s new Congressman, Cuellar also turned his attention to the rising need for levee funding for the IBWC. On March 16, 2007, Congressman Cuellar and Congressmen Ruben Hinojosa and Solomon Ortiz sent a letter to Rep. Lowey asking for additional funding for the IBWC. The IBWC is responsible for the maintenance of more than 500 miles of levees along the U.S.-Mexico border, many of which are too weak or too low to withstand a major rain event. The State and Foreign Operations bill includes a $13,205,000 increase in funds over the 2007 level for the IBWC, for a total of $15,725,000 for construction alone. “Just this week, Texas saw an unprecedented amount of rainfall. We must take the steps now to make sure that the levee systems are prepared, ready and able to weather serious storms. I am proud that we have done our part in the U.S. House of Representatives to increase the security and well-being of citizens who live in these areas,” said Cuellar. “The time has come to address issues that are critical to not only citizens of our border communities, but across the country. When we improve our borders and increase safety for citizens at the borders, we are taking steps towards building a more secure America. I commend my colleagues in the House in passing this bill and encourage our Senate counterparts to preserve these important provisions as the bill moves through Congress,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.15.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Homeland Security Appropriations bill that authorizes funds for the programs that fall under the jurisdiction of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Rep. Cuellar worked with his colleagues to make sure that vital provisions were included in the bill that provide for local input into plans for border fence and infrastructure projects, flexibility in implementing these projects, and consideration of the environmental impact on communities. By working the House floor, Cuellar was successful in preserving this important language. An amendment was offered to strike this language but was defeated by a vote of 233-190. “I have been a staunch advocate for these measures and thank Chairman David Price of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security for accepting my proposed language. Chairman Price showed great leadership on this provision. I would also like to recognize Congressman Ciro Rodriguez for working with me on this,” said Cuellar. On May 7, 2007, Rep. Cuellar sent a letter to Chairman Price to follow up on previous conversations about how Congress can best secure our borders. The letter stressed the importance of allowing the DHS to employ latitude in how it secures the borders, including a combination of fencing, technology and staffing. The letter included recommended language to be included in the bill that passed the floor today. “I have been working closely with both local and federal officials to make sure that we are including local input during every step of improving our border security. I want to thank our border mayors, county judges, local officials and the private sector for participating in the dialogue with the federal officials. They have helped shape the language included in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill,” said Cuellar. “It is absolutely vital that we implement efficient projects that are tailored for local considerations. I am proud that my colleagues have recognized this need and included my suggested language in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill,” Cuellar continued. Cuellar succeeded in including the input of officials and citizens from the Texas-Mexico border in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill. By facilitating meetings for local representatives with high-ranking federal officials over the course of several weeks, Rep. Cuellar ascertained local concerns and worked with his colleagues in Washington to create policy that will be tailored to each community. “I believe that we must allow the DHS to have latitude to determine the most cost-effective means of securing our borders while minimizing the impact on the environment and local communities. By working in Congress to develop this system, we can secure our borders in an efficient and effective way,” said Cuellar. The bill appropriates $37.4 billion and includes important provisions dealing with border security procedures and projects. “I was proud to vote for this bill today. I applaud my colleagues and Chairman David Price on passing this effective piece of legislation,” said Cuellar. Key components of the bill include: • Border Security. The bill appropriates $8.8 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP), which will support the hiring of 3,000 additional border patrol agents, resulting in a total of 17,819 by the end of FY 2008. • Firefighter Assistance Grants. The bill provides $570 million for grants to firefighters, which is $23 million above FY 2007 and $270 million above the President’s request. • SAFER Grants. The bill provides $230 million for Staffing for the Staffing Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which helps fund hiring and training of additional firefighters. This is an increase of $115 million above FY 2007. • Improved Benefits for CBP Officers. The measure requires CBP to offer its officers “law enforcement officer” status under the retirement system, making them eligible for more generous benefits and provides $50 million for this transition. • Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The measure directly appropriates a net $4.2 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). ICE will also be required to obtain monthly updates from the nation’s correctional facilities on the number of incarcerated immigrants who are subject to deportation. “This piece of legislation will increase border security and help keep our citizens safe. My constituents’ safety and securing our borders in an efficient matter are important issues to me,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.13.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Zapata Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Zapata County Independent School District (ZCISD) with a ceremonial check for $89,052.16 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Zapata,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I also want to thank the superintendent, the school board trustees and the district staff for their dedication and hard work.” The grant awarded to the ZCISD will be used for telecommunications. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
06.13.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar voted for the passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008. Congressman Cuellar successfully collaborated with the Appropriations Committee to add a provision in the report language of the bill to address the issue of increasing veterans’ access to healthcare across South Texas. On March 13, 2007, Cuellar sent a letter to Rep. Chet Edwards, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Veterans Affairs. In the letter, Cuellar proposed language to be included in the bill that would improve inpatient care for the veterans of South Texas. Cuellar continued to examine the status of veterans’ healthcare and look for ways to increase access to quality healthcare through meetings with Rep. Edwards and Rep. Bob Filner, Chairman of the Committee on Veterans Affairs. “I want to thank Congressmen Edwards, Filner, Solomon Ortiz and Ruben Hinojosa for their partnership and hard work to treat our veterans with the respect they deserve. Together, we have worked to bring attention to the growing need for adequate healthcare options for our veterans,” said Cuellar. The bill appropriates a total of $109.2 billion for military construction and veterans programs, including: • $37.1 billion for veterans’ health programs, which is a $3.1 billion increase over the current level • A transfer of $15 million to the Defense Department/VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund. The funds will be used to improve the continuity of health care for veterans. • $4.1 billion for the operation and maintenance of veterans’ hospitals and other medical facilities • $41.2 billion in mandatory spending for veterans’ compensation benefits and pensions. This will allow 3.2 million beneficiaries to receive compensation benefits and provide pension payments for over half a million veterans with disabilities. “The Military Construction/VA spending bill provides the largest single increase in the 77 year history of the Veterans Administration. It is a major victory and is being endorsed by all of the major veterans’ organizations,” said Cuellar. “Increasing access to quality healthcare services is a duty we owe to the brave men and women who have served in our armed forces. They deserve to receive the best medical services close to home. As the spending bill moves through Congress, I urge my colleagues to preserve this provision,” said Cuellar. The following is the text of the addition to the report language of H.R. 2642 that will benefit the veterans of South Texas: House Report 110-186 - MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, VETERANS AFFAIRS, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, 2008 Far South Texas Inpatient Care- The Committee notes that the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) report recognized inpatient access gaps existed in various locations, including the Valley-Coastal Bend market in Texas. The CARES solution was to recommend that the Department use existing authorities and policies to contract for care to improve access to inpatient care in this market. It has come to the attention of the Committee that this solution has been less than optimal. Accordingly, the Secretary is directed to review the CARES recommendation for the Valley-Coastal market, and report to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress on all options available to address the inpatient access issues facing this market's population, including the feasibility of new hospital construction by February 1, 2008. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.13.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the Mission Consolidated Independent School District (CISD) has been selected to receive a $198,604 grant. The grant from the Department of Education will be used for school-based student drug-testing programs. An official check presentation will take place in early August. “I congratulate Superintendent Oscar Rodriguez and Mission CISD educators on the receipt of this grant. I commend their hard work and dedication to the students,” said Cuellar. The Grants for School-Based Student Drug-Testing program provides local schools and educational agencies with funds to develop, implement and expand mandatory, random student drug-testing (RSDT). RSDT programs can be used to target students in school athletic programs, other extracurricular groups or used in a voluntary program. “Providing our schools with federal resources like this one increases the safety and security of our kids. The students of Mission can be more productive and receive a better education when they are in positive environments. Bringing federal funding to our local schools is a priority for my staff and I,” said Cuellar. The Mission Consolidated ISD was required to identify a target population, provide a comprehensive plan for the funds and ensure the confidentiality of drug-testing results in order to qualify for the grant. The funds, which are anticipated to be allocated for the next three years, are designated to be used between July 1, 2007 and June 30, 2008. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # # #
06.12.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Homeland Security Appropriations bill that authorizes funds for the programs that fall under the jurisdiction of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Rep. Cuellar worked with his colleagues to make sure that vital provisions were included in the bill that provide for local input into plans for border fence and infrastructure projects, flexibility in implementing these projects, and consideration of the environmental impact on communities. “I have been a staunch advocate for these measures and thank Chairman David Price of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security for accepting my proposed language. I would also like to recognize Congressman Ciro Rodriguez for working with me on this,” said Cuellar. On May 7, 2007, Rep. Cuellar sent a letter to Chairman Price to follow up on previous conversations about how Congress can best secure our borders. The letter stressed the importance of allowing the DHS to employ latitude in how it secures the borders, including a combination of fencing, technology and staffing. The letter included recommended language to be included in the bill that passed the floor today. “I have been working closely with both local and federal officials to make sure that we are including local input during every step of improving our border security. I want to thank our border mayors, county judges, local officials and the private sector for participating in the dialogue with the federal officials. They have helped shape the language included in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill,” said Cuellar. “It is absolutely vital that we implement efficient projects that are tailored for local considerations. I am proud that my colleagues have recognized this need and included my suggested language in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill,” Cuellar continued. Cuellar succeeded in including the input of officials and citizens from the Texas-Mexico border in the Homeland Security Appropriations bill. By facilitating meetings for local representatives with high-ranking federal officials over the course of several weeks, Rep. Cuellar ascertained local concerns and worked with his colleagues in Washington to create policy that will be tailored to each community. “I believe that we must allow the DHS to have latitude to determine the most cost-effective means of securing our borders while minimizing the impact on the environment and local communities. By working in Congress to develop this system, we can secure our borders in an efficient and effective way,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.12.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008. The bill appropriates $37.4 billion and includes important provisions dealing with border security procedures and projects. “I was proud to vote for this bill today. I applaud my colleagues and Chairman David Price on passing this effective piece of legislation,” said Cuellar. Key components of the bill include: • Border Security. The bill appropriates $8.8 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP), which will support the hiring of 3,000 additional border patrol agents, resulting in a total of 17,819 by the end of FY 2008. • Firefighter Assistance Grants. The bill provides $570 million for grants to firefighters, which is $23 million above FY 2007 and $270 million above the President’s request. • SAFER Grants. The bill provides $230 million for Staffing for the Staffing Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, which helps fund hiring and training of additional firefighters. This is an increase of $115 million above FY 2007. • Improved Benefits for CBP Officers. The measure requires CBP to offer its officers “law enforcement officer” status under the retirement system, making them eligible for more generous benefits and provides $50 million for this transition. • Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The measure directly appropriates a net $4.2 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). ICE will also be required to obtain monthly updates from the nation’s correctional facilities on the number of incarcerated immigrants who are subject to deportation. “This piece of legislation will increase border security and help keep our citizens safe. My constituents’ safety and securing our borders in an efficient matter are important issues to me,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
06.08.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that due to long processing times for passport applications, the federal government is making an accommodation for air travel. U.S. citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda will temporarily be allowed to travel with government-issued photo identification such as a drivers’ license and U.S. Department of State official proof of a passport application. To obtain proof of a passport application, individuals should visit www.travel.state.gov and click on the “Click Here for Proof of Application” link. By providing the last name, date of birth, and last four digits of a traveler’s social security number, citizens can locate and print official proof of their pending application. Children under the age of 16 who are traveling with a legal guardian will be allowed to travel with child’s proof of application. This new procedure is effective immediately and will remain so until Sept. 30, 2007. After that date, the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) stipulation to present a passport for travel to those locations will be required. “In the face of record-breaking demand for passports, people have been experiencing delays in receiving their passports. I have been working to help my constituents resolve their passport issues, and I am glad that the government is taking steps to allow people to travel,” said Cuellar. The WHTI was mandated by Congress in the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to strengthen border security and facilitate entry into the United States for citizens and legitimate international visitors. The WHTI requirements for air travel took effect on Jan. 23, 2007. Under these new stipulations, air travel to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda now require travelers to present a valid passport. “With the new travel regulations in place, it was becoming problematic for many people to obtain a valid passport in time to complete their travel. My office has been working diligently to try to help my constituents resolve their passport issues, and we will continue to assist with the process,” said Cuellar. As early as January of 2008, passports will be required for land travel to these locations as well. “I appreciate the State Department making these changes, but I am concerned by the delays caused by the increased demand for passports. I can only imagine that when passports are required for land travel, the processing of passport applications will come to a halt. I urge the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to take proactive steps to prevent this situation from repeating itself,” said Cuellar. Earlier this week, Congressman Cuellar sent a letter to the State Department inquiring what action was being taken to relieve the backlog of passport applications and end the delays.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.31.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved $3,975,000 for Starr County water systems improvement. The money consists of a $2,980,000 loan and a $995,000 grant to Union Water Supply Corporation. The money will be used to double the treatment capacity of the existing water treatment plant and improve water transmission lines. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help communities in need. The improvements that will be generated by these funds will benefit the people of Starr County. The recent population growth in this area necessitates the upgrades to ensure continued progress in the region,” Cuellar said. The rural development funds awarded will be utilized by the Union Water Supply Corporation for improvements to their water system. The system consists of a surface water treatment plant that would see its capacity double in size, including the construction of a new 150,000 gallon tank. The project will serve 1,736 water connections. The money for this project was made available through the Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program offered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Office. These funds will increase the plant’s current capacity and allow for reasonable future growth. “When federal funding is applied to local projects, the citizens of Texas experience an improved quality of life. Securing progress and the continued well-being of my constituents is very important to me,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.30.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has approved a $1,164,000 loan, and awarded a $242,000 grant to Jim Hogg Water Control & Improvement District No.2. The money will be used for water and wastewater service improvement in Jim Hogg County. “I am always pleased when the federal government makes a concerted effort to help communities in need. The infrastructure improvements that will be generated from this funding will have a profound impact on those who live in Jim Hogg County, and I congratulate the Jim Hogg Water Control and Improvement District on the receipt of this award,” Rep. Cuellar said. The money awarded will be utilized by the Jim Hogg Water Control and Improvement District to improve water and wastewater services in the Old Cemetery Road area. Water line extensions along East Lisa, East Caroline, and East Clayton road will provide residents in this area with sufficient water supply and pressure. There is also a proposal for water line extension to Old Cemetery Road as well as North and South Valleo Avenues. “We are happy for what the Congressman has done for this part of his district, and we are excited about this opportunity to improve our county’s infrastructure with the funds that have been provided,” said Jim Hogg Water Control and Improvement District President, Santos Cantu. The money for this project was made available through the Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant program offered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Office. “When federal funding is applied to local projects, the citizens of Texas experience an improved quality of life. Securing progress and the continued well-being of my constituents is very important to me,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.30.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that this week, Atascosa County will be provided with disaster relief assistance by the Small Business Administration (SBA). The services come in response to Atascosa County being added to the disaster declaration by President Bush earlier this month. Today, the SBA will open a Disaster Loan Outreach Center to provide personal assistance to homeowners, renters and businesses who sustained damage form the severe storms and tornadoes that struck Texas late last month. Representatives will be available at 711 Broadway St. in Jourdanton starting today through Sat., June 2, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Customer service representatives will be on hand from both the SBA and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to assist people. Resources will be available to help citizens navigate the SBA disaster loan program and assist individuals with FEMA applications. “As a member of the Small Business Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives, I want to make sure that my constituents are aware of all of the services the SBA can provide. My sympathies and prayers go out to those people who were affected by the storms. I am committed to making sure that these victims receive the support they need to recover from the damage as quickly as possible,” said Cuellar. Early today, a representative from Congressman Cuellar’s San Antonio office also met with two FEMA officials to make sure that the people affected by the natural disaster are receiving expedient assistance. “We have come a long way in improving FEMA customer service. As the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee that deals with emergency services and response, I want to ensure that the federal government does its part in community recovery. My staff and I are available to help provide any information or assistance that we can,” said Cuellar. For more information on SBA assistance, visit www.sba.gov/services/disasterassistance. More information is available on FEMA services at www.fema.gov/rebuild. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Marion Independent School District through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Marion Independent School District (ISD) with a ceremonial check for $26,988 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Marion,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Two grants were awarded to the Marion ISD. The first grant of $9,516 will be used for internet access, while the second grant of $17,432 will be used for telecommunications. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
05.24.2007	Rep. Henry Cuellar continued to provide the most recent, accurate information regarding the possibility of the construction of a fence along the Texas-Mexico border. Today, he called for a study to be conducted assessing the impact a potential border fence would have on the environment. Congressman Cuellar has been instrumental in making sure that local input is heard at the federal level. “Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Ralph Basham has assured me that environmental impact studies will be performed prior to making a decision on building a fence. Although no fence will be built in Texas this year, letters will be sent out notifying communities of the commencement of these studies. I have advocated for these studies to begin and encouraged the Border patrol to work directly with local residents,” said Cuellar. Earlier this week, Cuellar hosted a videoconference with high-ranking federal officials and local officials and landowners. Border Chief David Aguilar of CBP and representatives from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and SBINet were present for the meeting. They answered questions and addressed the concerns of the residents of South Texas who participated from McAllen and Laredo. “As a citizen of Laredo, I know how important the issue of building a fence is to residents near our international borders. I have established an ongoing line of communication between the residents of Texas and the federal government and will continue to ensure that people are getting the most up-to-date information,” said Cuellar. The federal officials reasserted that they would partner with the people of the communities that would be affected by any fence construction. Local outreach will begin in the near future, and information will be readily available to the public through local border communications contacts. During the meeting, some of the topics addressed were the status of fence construction, continued access to the Rio Grande River for landowners and possible environmental impact. “I believe that we can find a variety of solutions that are tailored to each geographic area. I will continue to work with federal officials and in Congress to reach a solution that is the most effective and efficient combination of resources available,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.# # #
05.24.2007	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) will be funded at $118 million, which is $11 million above last year and $118 million over the Administration’s request.The Administration’s FY 2007 Budget contained alarming cuts to valuable federal programs that countless American families rely on including the CSFP. This meant that, in the 28th Congressional District of Texas, over 5,000 senior citizens would lose their primary source of nutrition.In March, Congressman Henry Cuellar called an emergency meeting with various public officials and representatives from the South Texas Food Bank. He addressed concerns of the potential depletion in food supply for senior citizens in Webb and Zapata counties resulting from these drastic budget initiatives. In April, Congressman Cuellar rallied alongside hundreds of senior citizens in Laredo in his continued opposition of the cuts to this valuable nutrition program. His unyielding support of the people of the 28th District echoed in the halls of Congress where he continued his fight against deep cuts to seniors’ programs by working in a bipartisan manner to secure additional funding.Congressman Cuellar said, “I will not allow the federal budget to be balanced on the backs of America’s senior citizens, who tend to be those in the greatest need. It is the government’s duty and moral obligation to provide its citizens with the proper means to stay healthy and not go hungry.”South Texas Food Bank Director Alfredo Castillo was extremely pleased to learn that CSFP would be refunded this year, “I’ve had the opportunity of getting to know our seniors on a one on one basis and understand the personal negative effects the program’s elimination would have on their health and their livelihood. I want to thank Congressman Cuellar for being the front runner on efforts to save CSFP. His support has restored our seniors’ faith in the system.”“This upcoming fiscal year, seniors need relief, not additional cuts to programs they rely on,” argued Congressman Cuellar, whose persistent support of the CSFP helped effect a complete turnaround in events. “It was gratifying to see members of the community, the South Texas Food Bank, and hundreds of senior citizens stand up to protect this important program. I am pleased to see that our joint efforts have resulted in continued support of our senior population in my district and across the country and would like to thank my Congressional colleagues for moving this forward, Congress acted, and we have saved the CSFP.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.23.2007	“Today Texas lost one of its greatest sons. Lloyd Bentsen’s legacy is one of devoted service to the American people, and particularly to the people of Texas. Whether it was in uniform, in local government, in the halls of Congress, or in the executive branch, Bentsen left his country in a better state than he found it,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “To the family of my fellow Texan, Lloyd Bentsen, I extend my deepest condolences.” Secretary Bentsen fought tirelessly for those who never received the opportunities he had. He stood proudly against discriminatory poll taxes, and worked to bring economic opportunity to the people of Texas. Congressman Cuellar added, “Lloyd Bentsen was a leader in innovative politics as a builder of bipartisan coalitions and an advocate of business, commerce and trade, setting the standard for all public servants.” “As a role model, Bentsen has few equals, and I am confident that his legacy will continue to influence state and federal politics for a long time to come,” commented Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities
05.21.2007	On Fri., May 18, Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-Texas) hosted a meeting in Washington, D.C. to address the need for increased access to healthcare for veterans. Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Bob Filner (D-Calif.) and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriation Subcommittee Chairman Chet Edwards (D-Texas) participated in the meeting with Abe Martinez, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Laredo Medical Center and Elmo Lopez., Jr., CEO of Doctors Hospital of Laredo. Representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs were also present at the meeting. “We must increase our veterans’ accessibility to healthcare. Making sure our veterans receive quality services close to home is very important to me. These brave men and women deserve the best treatment that they can possibly receive,” said Cuellar. During the meeting, increased accessibility to healthcare was addressed, as well as supplementing the services currently provided. There was discussion of how the government can partner with local providers to make sure that veterans can receive services close to their homes. “Doctors Hospital supports our veterans one hundred percent, and we’re happy to be in the process of providing greater accessibility for veterans’ healthcare. We thank Congressman Cuellar for his leadership on this important issue,” said Elmo Lopez, Jr. “We are very glad to be a part of increasing access to healthcare for all of our veterans. We have the right facilities and providers to make sure that our veterans receive high-quality healthcare close to home,” said Abe Martinez. “I want to thank my colleagues Rep. Filner and Rep. Edwards for participating in the meeting. When we address local concerns at the federal level, we can begin to find effective solutions and provide the absolute best care for our veterans,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.21.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced Gabriella Caballero as the winner of the 2007 Congressional Art Competition for Texas’ 28th District. Caballero is a sophomore at John B. Alexander High School in Laredo, Texas. Her winning entry is a pastel drawing entitled “Flower Girl.” The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete to display their work in the United States Capitol Building. Each member of Congress has the opportunity to host a local competition amongst high school students and select the winning entry. Caballero was picked out of 82 contestants by a panel of judges from Texas Lutheran University in Seguin, Texas. “I congratulate Ms. Caballero on her stunning artwork. I was impressed with the quality and breadth of all of the submissions. Such outstanding work shows how talented the students of Texas are and what they can accomplish,” said Cuellar. As the winner of the art competition, Caballero is invited to fly to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines in late June to attend a reception and ribbon-cutting ceremony where her artwork will be displayed. She will have the opportunity to spend time with Congressman Cuellar and tour the nation’s capitol. “I look forward to welcoming Ms. Caballero to Washington, D.C. This is a great accomplishment and she is truly deserving of all of her rewards. I hope her success inspires other students to create art and strive for excellence,” said Cuellar. First launched in 1982, this year marks the 25th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since its inauguration, thousands of contests have been held around the country. Throughout the history of the competition, more than 650,000 high school students have been involved in the program. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.18.2007	Yesterday, Congressman Henry Cuellar joined his colleagues in the House and Senate in passing the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget Resolution. The budget invests in America’s priorities, returns to ‘pay as you go’ principles, reduces the deficit, and balances the budget in just five years. The Budget Resolution is a return to fiscal responsibility and accountability. It has been praised by major nonpartisan budget and fiscal watchdog groups. There are no tax increases in the Budget Resolution; in fact, it accommodates tax relief for middle class families and provides generously for veterans programs and children’s healthcare. “I am proud that we were able to pass a balanced budget that reflects our top priorities. We have listened to what the American people want and what is important to our communities. In return, we have produced a budget that delivers on those issues,” said Cuellar. The budget provides for increased funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). SCHIP will receive an increase of $50 billion, allowing millions of uninsured children to receive healthcare. The $6.7 billion increase in spending for the VA represents the largest increase in the department’s 77-year history. The budget also allocates money for the 9/11 Commission recommendations and accommodates more homeland security funding. Other vital programs will receive increased financial support, including Head Start and No Child Left Behind. The passage of the budget also paves the way for Congress to begin work on the 2007 Farm Bill. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Cuellar will make sure that the interests of Texas are well-represented in this important legislation. “The people spoke out in the 2006 elections, demanding a new direction for our country. We promised to deliver that change and the budget takes a significant step towards fulfilling that goal. The people of Texas expect and deserve a government that is responsive to their needs while being responsible. This is exactly what my colleagues and I delivered,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.17.2007	Congressman Henry Cuellar voted today against the FY2007 budget and its deep cuts to education, healthcare, and other valuable federal programs. This budget also adds trillions of dollars to the national deficit over the next ten years and continues a path of mortgaging the future of our children and grandchildren. Congressman Cuellar continues to pursue new fiscal policies to take America in a new direction. Cumulative funding for federal education programs will see billions of dollars in cuts affecting programs such as No Child Left Behind, Technology Grants, Drug Free School Grants, Pell Grants and many higher education initiatives as a result of this budget. “The budget cannot be balanced by slashing education funding, the backbone of our country’s competitive edge and our economic future,” stated Congressman Cuellar. The 2007 budget does not even keep funding for the Head Start program. As a result, 19,000 children could be cut from the program, or the program could be forced to make cuts to the services – such as qualified teachers, educational activities, and parent education – proven to help children reach kindergarten better prepared to succeed. The budget also contains deep cuts to vocational training programs and programs for first generation and low income residents. “These programs, which I’ve worked tirelessly to protect and expand over the last year, are essential to the futures of millions of Americans,” added Congressman Cuellar. “We cannot attack America’s working class, especially our nation’s students by dramatically decreasing the assistance they deserve to improve their lives,” he continued. On the heels of the recent Medicare deadline, seniors and disabled persons relying on federal healthcare assistance programs will continue to be disappointed as payments to hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, ambulance services and other healthcare providers will be cut by $105 billion over the next ten years. The budget also cuts health professions training and eliminates several key health programs including the Preventative Health Grant, the Healthy Communities Access Program, and many emergency medical services for children, seniors, disabled persons and working families. Investments in veterans’ healthcare also fall short. As America continues to welcome home a new generation of veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan, the budget undermines their need for reliable, quality healthcare, and is $10 billion below the amount needed to maintain services at current levels over the next five years. Congressman Cuellar is a firm believer in strong leadership, and remains unyielding in his support of alternative fiscal policies which prioritize the interest of all Americans. Congressman Cuellar said, “My vote will always be for American students, seniors, farmers, veterans and all our nation’s citizens. Now is the time that Congress and the Administration should recommit themselves to serving the needs of real people.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
05.16.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Hidalgo County and the cities of Pharr, McAllen and Mission have the opportunity to receive up to $16,228,839 combined from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD will award these dollars once the county and respective cities have developed a plan for their use that is approved by the federal agency. “In recent years, the previous Congress has cut funding for these crucial programs. The new majority will remain committed to maximizing the federal benefits in local communities. We must use our resources to help people truly see progress and expansion at the local level,” said Cuellar. Each year, HUD allocates funds at the local level. Each community is then responsible for devising a plan to utilize the funds. Of the total monies available, Hidalgo County has been allotted the potential for an $8,632,714 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). These funds could be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, particularly for low-income citizens. Hidalgo County also has the possibility to receive a $2,764,988 HOME grant, designed to create affordable housing for low-income households. An additional $16,282 is available for an American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) grant to increase homeownership rates among lower-income and minority households, and to revitalize and stabilize communities. Finally, $372,645 is available for an Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) to provide homeless individuals with basic shelter and essential supportive services. At the city level, the opportunity for CDBG funds exists for Pharr in the amount of $1,141,378 and for Mission in the amount of $854,004. McAllen has the possibility to develop plans to utilize a $1,827,742 CDBG and a $619,086 HOME grant. Hidalgo County and each of the three cities now must develop a plan for each of these grants. Once the plan is approved by HUD, the funds will be released to the city. Congressman Cuellar encourages the local entities to promptly take the steps necessary to secure these funds. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that the residents of Hidalgo County benefit from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.16.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the city of Laredo has the opportunity to receive up to $5,175,460 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD will award these dollars once Laredo has developed a plan for their use that is approved by the federal agency. “In recent years, the previous Congress has cut funding for these crucial programs. The new majority will remain committed to maximizing the federal benefits in local communities. We must use our resources to help people truly see progress and expansion at the local level,” said Cuellar. Of the total anticipated amount, $3,711,664 would qualify under a Community Development Block Grant. These funds could be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, particularly for low-income citizens. There is the possibility for a $1,290,876 HOME grant, designed to create affordable housing for low-income households. An additional $12,841 is available for an American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) grant to increase homeownership rates among lower-income and minority households, and to revitalize and stabilize communities. Finally, $160,079 is available for an Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) to provide homeless individuals with basic shelter and essential supportive services. The city of Laredo now must develop a plan for each of these grants. Once the plan is approved by HUD, the funds will be released to the city. Congressman Cuellar encourages the local entities to promptly take the steps necessary to secure these funds. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that the city of Laredo benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.16.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that Bexar County has the opportunity to receive up to $2,409,167 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). HUD will award these dollars once Bexar County has developed a plan for their use that is approved by the federal agency. “In recent years, the previous Congress has cut funding for these crucial programs. The new majority will remain committed to maximizing the federal benefits in local communities. We must use our resources to help people truly see progress and expansion at the local level,” said Cuellar. Of the total anticipated amount, $1,785,661 would qualify under a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). These funds could be used to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, particularly for low-income citizens. There is the possibility for a $613,992 HOME grant, designed to create affordable housing for low-income households. An additional $9,514 is available for an American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI) grant to increase homeownership rates among lower-income and minority households, and to revitalize and stabilize communities. Bexar County now must develop a plan for each of these grants. Once the plan is approved by HUD, the funds will be released to the county. Congressman Cuellar encourages the local entities to promptly take the steps necessary to secure these funds. “Taking advantage of the opportunity to receive federal funding for local problems is a key part of economic growth and development. It is important that Bexar County benefits from all that the federal government can provide. In Washington, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that the community is aware of all of the opportunities available and how to go about acquiring them,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.15.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar joined a bipartisan majority to pass H.R. 1700, the COPS Reauthorization Act. The measure aims to help local law enforcement agencies to hire an additional 50,000 police officers over the next six years. “I am proud that today, my colleagues and I took the first step to reinstitute the highly-successful and popular COPS hiring grants program. With crime rates on the rise, it is imperative that we do something to keep our people safe. I encourage the Senate to act on this bill quickly, and I hope that the President signs it into law,” said Cuellar. Created in 1994, the COPS hiring grants program helped local agencies hire 117,000 police officers from 1995 to 2005. To date, $40,505,494 in COPS grants have been awarded to law enforcement agencies in Texas’ 28th District. Crime-fighting technologies have improved and an additional 544 police officers and sheriff deputies were hired as a result of the funding. The program, which had enjoyed support from the public and law enforcement professionals, was completely eliminated in 2006 after years of reduced funding. Under the COPS hiring grants program, our nation’s crime rates significantly dropped. According to a nonpartisan GAO study, the COPS program was responsible for reducing crimes by 200,000 from 1998 to 2000 alone. Since the program has been eliminated, violent crime has sparked across the nation. “This bill will reinvigorate the COPS program, helping local law enforcement agencies to hire the staff they need to keep the citizens of Texas safe. By authorizing the COPS hiring grants, COPS technology grants and community prosecutor grants, the COPS legislation will help to bring crime rates back down,” said Cuellar. The COPS Reauthorization Act has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Senior Whip.####
05.14.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded $6.5 million in federal dollars to the Laredo International Airport. The money will be used for noise mitigation and the rehabilitation of the apron portion of the airport runway. Rep. Henry Cuellar commends the U.S. Department of Transportation for allocating money for the Laredo International Airport. “Continued development in Texas’ 28th District is a priority of mine and I believe that this happens when the federal government works to bolster local interests. I congratulate Jose Flores and the Laredo International Airport on the receipt of the grant and look forward to seeing the improvements,” said Rep. Cuellar. The $5 million grant was secured through the Federal Transit Administration and was supplemented by an entitlement of $1,513,444. Of the total monies granted, $2 million will be used for noise mitigation. Approximately 77 families will be assisted with sound insulation of their homes as a result of this money. “Improving our transportation systems will help to bolster economic growth in Laredo and all of Texas. When we improve our facilities and infrastructure, the entire community reaps the benefits. Thanks to the efforts of folks from Laredo, we will see improvements to the airport and for the local homeowners,” said Cuellar. “Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have closely followed all of the grants being applied for in my district to ensure that the maximum amount of federal dollars will be allocated for Texas. My staff is always available to assist the people of the 28th District in navigating the complex process of applying for and receiving federal dollars,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.14.2007	Last night, Rep. Henry Cuellar joined Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel, Bush Administration officials, and House and Senate leaders to announce a new bipartisan trade policy for America. Congressman Cuellar praised the agreement and commended Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Rangel, Ranking Member Jim McCrery and Rep. Sander Levin for creating a new direction for international trade. The policy incorporates internationally recognized labor and environmental standards in U.S. free trade agreements. This shift in U.S. trade policy will expand and shape commerce, spreading the benefits of globalization and raising standards in America and around the world. “As a native of the largest land port in the country, I know that the preservation of free trade is a vital component of the economy of Texas and across the nation. I am a long-standing advocate for free and open commerce. I am proud that Congress was able to work with the Administration to reach a consensus that bolsters free trade,” said Cuellar. “The economic health of our country is vital to spurring growth and progress across the nation. In Washington, we must address globalization and capitalize on the motivation and entrepreneurial spirit of the American people. In today’s political and economic climate, boosting free trade will usher in a renewed sense of development.” The advancement of the new trade policy will expand opportunities for American businesses, workers and farmers while including fundamental operating standards. It also clears the way for broad, bipartisan support for existing Peru and Panama free trade agreements, and will apply to future accords with South Korea and Colombia. “What the American people want are real and lasting solutions to the issues they face. Bipartisanship is often only a buzz word and I applaud my colleagues for finding a new direction for our country to enhance trade. This bipartisan policy shows that the 110th Congress is committed to fulfilling our promise for a new direction for the United States of America,” said Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.11.2007	Today, the U.S. Department of Education awarded $292,189 to South Texas College under the Upward Bound Program. Upward Bound projects are designed to help young adults develop the skills and motivation necessary for success in education beyond secondary school. The grant awarded to South Texas College will support approximately 75 participants in Upward Bound programs. “I congratulate Shirley Reed and her colleagues at South Texas College on receiving this grant. With the work of dedicated people in our education system, we will see continued success and increased education opportunities for our young people,” said Rep. Cuellar. Upward Bound provides fundamental support to participants in their preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for participants to succeed in their pre-college performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which participants complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from colleges and universities. The projects provided by Upward Bound serve high school students from low-income families, high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor’s degree, and low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing for post-secondary education. These projects provide academic instruction in math, laboratory sciences, composition, literature and foreign languages. Tutoring, counseling, mentoring, cultural enrichment and work-study programs are also supported by Upward Bound. “Ensuring that every person who wants to pursue a college education is able to is a top priority of mine. Programs like Upward Bound help to give students the tools, resources and motivation they need to be successful in reaching their academic goals,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.11.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Department of Education awarded $396,194 to Laredo Community College under the Upward Bound Program. Upward Bound projects are designed to help young adults develop the skills and motivation necessary for success in education beyond secondary school. The grant awarded to Laredo Community College will support approximately 115 participants in Upward Bound programs. “I congratulate Laredo Community College on receiving this grant. With the work of dedicated people in our education system, we will see continued success and increased education opportunities for our young people,” said Rep. Cuellar. Upward Bound provides fundamental support to participants in their preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for participants to succeed in their pre-college performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which participants complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from colleges and universities. The projects provided by Upward Bound serve high school students from low-income families, high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor’s degree, and low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing for post-secondary education. These projects provide academic instruction in math, laboratory sciences, composition, literature and foreign languages. Tutoring, counseling, mentoring, cultural enrichment and work-study programs are also supported by Upward Bound. “Ensuring that every person who wants to pursue a college education can is a top priority of mine. Programs like Upward Bound help to give students the tools, resources and motivation they need to be successful in reaching their academic goals,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.11.2007	“Having lived on the US-Mexico border all my life, I am acutely aware of the negative implications that the deployment of armed troops would have on America’s relations with our neighboring country. What we need is a smart and tough border control policy, not military force,” stated Congressman Cuellar on the House Floor today as Congress continued consideration of the National Defense Authorization Bill for fiscal year 2007. He also spoke against the construction of a wall between the U.S. – Mexico border.Congressman Goode (R-VA) is proposing an amendment to this bill which authorizes the secretary of Defense to assign members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps to assist the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement of the Homeland Security Department in their border-protection duties. The amendment also authorizes the secretaries of Homeland Security and Defense to establish a training program that offers general instruction to the requested forces on law enforcement issues in the border areas.Congressman Cuellar is opposed to this initiative which proposes deploying military force on the US-Mexico Border. “This amendment is an unnecessary initiative which does not address border issues and which will have a direct and negative impact on national relations between the United States and Mexico. This amendment is no good,” Congressman Cuellar added. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities. ####
05.10.2007	Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 890, the Student Loan Sunshine Act, including a provision co-authored by Rep. Henry Cuellar. The Student Loan Sunshine Act aims to create more transparency in the relationship between private lenders and educational institutions. Rep. Cuellar co-authored Section Five of the Act with Rep. Ric Keller (R-Fla.). The provision requires the Department of Education to place a link to studentaid.gov on its website. It also requires the Department of Education to collect financial aid information from federal departments and agencies, and include this information in an enhanced financial aid search matrix. “At a time when students and their parents are finding it increasingly difficult to fund higher education, it is imperative that we make information on financial aid completely accessible to everyone who wants to pursue a college degree. Every student deserves the opportunity to continue their education, and expanding access to financial aid will help them to achieve their goals,” said Cuellar. The Student Loan Sunshine Act takes critical steps to guarantee loan options for students, gives students complete information regarding loan repayment, protects students from aggressive marketing practices, and helps ensure timely processing of loan applications. A long-standing advocate for expanding education opportunities, Cuellar pursued similar measures while in the state legislature. With a track record for making education a top priority in his work as a public servant, Cuellar commends the passing of the Student Loan Sunshine Act. “I was very committed to increasing educational opportunities when I worked in the state legislature and I am proud to continue this work on the federal level. Making financial aid information readily available to students is a key step in making a college education a reality for every citizen,” said Cuellar. For more information on financial aid opportunities in Texas, please visit www.collegefortexans.com or call the Texas Financial Aid Information Center (TFAIC) toll-free at 1-888-311-8881.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.09.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the House passage of critical legislation that authorizes the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2008. Contained in this legislation are several key additions authored by Congressman Cuellar that will create a Border Communities Liaison Officer in the Department’s Policy Office, compel the Department to evaluate and prioritize on-site training in the Southwest for Border Patrol agents, and mandate an assessment to significantly reduce wait times at the border. The first provision that Congressman Cuellar successfully added to the authorization legislation creates a direct line of communication between local elected officials and business leaders from border communities and high-level policymakers at the Department of Homeland Security in Washington, D.C. “Before there is policy change regarding border practices, the voice of the community must be heard in Washington. This is why the creation of a Border Community Liaison in the Homeland Security Department is so important. Recently, I have been facilitating meetings between local and federal officials to help make this kind of communication an ongoing practice,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar’s second addition calls for the evaluation of current training practices and emphasizes the importance of training Border Patrol agents along the Southwest border, where many of them will serve. This provision helps to better prepare Border Patrol agents to meet the challenges they will face in their careers. Third, Congressman Cuellar secured inclusion of a mandate to assess what staffing, infrastructure and technology is needed to reduce wait times at the border. For the first time, this assessment will take a comprehensive look at what resources the Department of Homeland Security needs to markedly reduce wait times at the nation’s borders. “It is imperative that we reduce the wait times at our borders and provide the resources needed to be fully operational. By easing the flow of traffic at the border, we will help to bolster the trade and tourism that is so vital to the economy,” said Congressman Cuellar. The authorization legislation, which also addresses many broad and important management issues within the Department, will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. Congressman Cuellar’s provisions aim to find a route to improve the Department of Homeland Security’s operations along the Texas border. “We must take informed, proactive steps to create a viable and lasting solution to the problems at our nation’s borders. I have heard from the residents and officials of border communities how crucial these improvements are, and I am proud that I was able to represent their opinions and concerns in Washington, D.C.,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
05.07.2007	This morning, Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28) facilitated a video conference between federal and local officials to continue dialogue regarding the proposed border fence and address the lack of outreach to local citizens and officials. The meeting included top-ranking officials from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Chief David Aguilar of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and SBINet Executive Director Greg Giddens. Staff members of Rep. Cuellar, Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, Sen. John Cornyn, local leaders and elected officials also participated, including Webb County Judge Danny Valdez, Dennis Nixon of International Bank of Commerce, and Laredo Mayor Raul Salinas. During the video conference, CBP and DHS officials agreed to engage local communities in an outreach campaign and said they will continue communicating with border leaders before any action on the proposed fence is taken. Officials also explained that the proposed fence location was drafted before SBINet measures were implemented and that DHS officials will monitor the results of a pilot program in Ariz. to determine if these security measures are good for the entire U.S.-Mexico Border. Rep. Cuellar said he will also coordinate a visit to study the pilot program in Ariz., with the intention of determining the feasibility of a similar project along the Texas-Mexico Border. “We will look to find the best options to increase border security, including the possibility of SBINet technology,” said Rep. Cuellar. “The SBINet technology-- including air surveillance, cameras, ground sensors and ground radars-- would help minimize the number of miles of fencing along our borders.” Chief Aguilar welcomed town hall meetings along the border as a part of the CBP outreach initiative. “I will work to bring SBINet Executive Director, Border Patrol Chiefs, border mayors, county judges and other officials who are stationed along the Texas-Mexico border to Laredo for a border town hall meeting in the near future,” said Cuellar. “Two people who will become major players in how we secure our borders will be Chief David Aguilar and Greg Giddens. In addition, we need to involve our Border Patrol Chiefs because they are the ones in the trenches and protecting our borders,” said Cuellar. DHS representatives stated that their top priority along the international border in Texas is not building a fence, but cooperating with local citizens and representatives to improve border security and efficiency. Rep. Cuellar has long been an advocate for such communication as well as for clearing the banks of the Rio Grande. “I applaud the Department of Homeland Security for recognizing the need to maintain an open line of communication with citizens in border communities, and I want to thank everyone for working to have such a positive meeting regarding border security,” said Cuellar. “I will continue to advocate for efficient and beneficial solutions at the border in Texas, utilizing the best combination of technology, infrastructure and construction to secure our border.” “My goal is to facilitate communication and progress between local citizens and the federal government. By helping to address the local needs with federal solutions, we will truly be on track to bring about progress at the border,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
05.03.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar continued the dialogue on the controversial border fence with Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Ralph Basham. Commissioner Basham reiterated commitments made by the leadership of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to Congressman Cuellar that final decisions on fence construction would be subject to consultation with landowners, as well as state and local officials. Rep. Cuellar insisted that DHS and CBP work with the local communities before making any final decisions. In response, the Commissioner outlined his intention to reach out directly to state and local officials to emphasize the importance of their input in any fence construction process, and to clear up misconceptions and inaccuracies which have appeared in the press. Congressman Cuellar was assured that the fence lines were not set in concrete and DHS and CBP were still in the outreach process. “I will continue to work closely with officials from both DHS and CBP to help ensure that the interests of the citizens in our border towns are represented in Washington. The opinions of the people who live and work at the international border in Texas will be heard at the federal level,” said Cuellar. Commissioner Basham stated he was optimistic that the ongoing dialogue will bring a balance between operational necessities for homeland security, while catering to the individual concerns and desires of local communities. Basham stated he would continue to have an open line of communication with Congressman Cuellar as the outreach process moves forward. “Finding the most efficient, economic and beneficial solution at the border remains one of my top priorities. I look forward to continued cooperation and communication between our local residents and officials and the federal government,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
05.02.2007	Yesterday, Rep. Henry Cuellar offered an amendment to the Head Start Act of 2007 that will help improve Head Start students’ progress towards English Language Proficiency. The Cuellar Amendment aims to help enhance consistency in how the progress of students with Limited English Proficiency (LEP) is measured. The Improving Head Start Act of 2007 requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to produce a report one year after its enactment detailing the progress of students with LEP. The Cuellar Amendment adds the requirement that such assessments be described. The Amendment is supported by the National Education Association, the National Council of La Raza and the Texas Head Start Association. “Having grown up in South Texas, I know from personal experience how important it is to learn English early in life. It is important to me that Congress addresses the education needs of all students and provides them with tools to help them be successful,” said Congressman Cuellar. Studies have shown that early childhood is the easiest time for an individual to learn a new language. The Head Start program is an ideal vehicle for teaching children English. The Cuellar Amendment will take the first steps towards providing a consistent standard to measure progress and help lay down the groundwork for the establishment of a list of specific assessment tactics for Head Start providers. “Education has always been and remains one of my top priorities. At the federal level, we have the responsibility to help our children achieve academic success. I have two young children, so it is a very personal goal of mine to continue to provide all kids with the resources they need to be competitive in school and in further pursuits,” said Cuellar. Key Provisions in the Head Start Act of 2007 • Authorizes and additional $450 million for Head Start in 2008 to a maximum of $7.3 billion, which would allow up to 10,000 more children to receive Head Start • Increases funding for teacher and staff salaries, professional development, training and assistance, and the hiring of additional staff • Allows local programs the discretion to convert portions of their grant to Early Head Start, which services children under the age of three • Terminates the National Reporting System and replaces it with an updated standards for assessment based on the most current and up-to-date science • Improves coordination between Head Start and child care programs to increase full-day and full-year services • Increases accountability through a new system of application review, allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to quickly strip low-quality and inefficient programs of funding For more information on Head Start and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, please visit: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/hsb/. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.27.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar joined local officials at a groundbreaking ceremony for the new Post Office in Schertz, Texas. Construction on the Post Office will begin in October 2007 and is expected to conclude by November 2008. “I have worked very closely with the city of Schertz to help make the construction of a new Post Office a reality. The need for a new Post Office is a positive sign of the growth and progress in Schertz, so I am very proud to be a part of the project,” said Cuellar. The current postal building was constructed in 1962 and will be replaced by a state of the art, full-service facility with three service windows. The Post Office will be approximately 8,000 square feet and sit on a 5.3-acre tract next to the Guadalupe County Office Building. The grove of pecan trees located on the site will be incorporated into the landscape design in front of the Post Office, creating a picturesque setting. “I am very pleased that the United States Postal Service has seen that the City of Schertz deserves a new Post Office. I would like to extend my gratitude to Congressman Cuellar for his efforts in helping us achieve our goal,” said Schertz Mayor Hal Baldwin. “I would like to thank Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchinson and Mayor Baldwin for their hard work in bringing this project to fruition. The construction of the new Post Office is a fine example of how collaboration amongst all levels of government can provide the services and resources needed in Schertz,” said Cuellar. “Improving the communities of South Texas is important to maintaining and building our local economies. By constantly working to better the towns in Texas’ 28th District, we create benefits for current residents and future generations of Texans,” said Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.27.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar announced that a $4 million federal grant has been awarded for the renovation of the facilities at Falcon Dam. Located near the dividing line between Starr and Zapata Counties, the Falcon Dam facilities will be renovated internally and externally. “The renovation of facilities at our international borders is vital to increasing the efficiency and security of our border communities. In Congress, we are working hard to make sure that citizens in these communities benefit from federal funding and resources,” said Congressman Cuellar. Originally constructed and dedicated on Oct. 19, 1953, the federal facilities at Falcon Dam serve as a point of entry between Mexico and the United States. President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mexican President Adolfo Ruiz Cortines originally dedicated the facilities and spoke of a lasting international friendship. “I want to thank Elsie Acevedo from the General Services Administration and Chris Cantu from the Customs and Border Protection for their efforts in making the renovation of Falcon Dam a reality, and I also commend the partnership between federal and local agencies,” said Cuellar. “Securing federal funds for vital projects in Texas’ 28th District is a key priority of mine. When our communities prosper and grow, all of South Texas and our friends across the border reap the benefits,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Enhancing trade and tourism while maintaining and improving border security is a critical issue in border communities, and I will continue work hard to increase access to federal aid for projects in these areas.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.25.2007	Late last evening, a tornado hit South Texas. Congressman Cuellar expressed his sympathy for the residents affected by the natural disaster and is deeply saddened by the news that six people have died and that many have lost their homes. “My condolences go out to the families and friends of the victims of last night’s tornado. I know entire communities have been impacted and my prayers and thoughts go out to the citizens of South Texas,” said Congressman Cuellar. More than 200 emergency responders assisted local agencies to recover victims, conduct rescue efforts and assess damage. FEMA is already engaged in the area and will provide relief as the need arises. As the Chairman of the Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response Subcommittee of the Homeland Security Committee, Congressman Cuellar commended the local officials and emergency responders. “I applaud the hard work and fast response of local authorities and the emergency responders. Their commitment to the safety and security of the citizens of South Texas is truly commendable and I thank them for their efforts,” said Congressman Cuellar. Rep. Cuellar also sits on the Small Business Committee which oversees the Disaster Loan Program, the federal government’s tool to provide disaster relief. Congressman Cuellar and the House recently passed legislation to modernize this program to make sure that citizens affected by natural disasters are provided with the resources to rebuild immediately after a calamity. “I know that many people in my district and neighboring areas are experiencing power outages and property damage. I want to reassure those people affected that everything possible is being done to repair damages and provide assistance,” said Rep. Cuellar. “In Congress, we understand how important it is to be ready to handle natural disasters and help people in their time of need. I am deeply committed to making sure that we have a sufficient amount of first responders and emergency resources in rural and urban areas,” said Rep. Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.25.2007	Last night, an amendment sponsored by Congressman Henry Cuellar passed the U.S. House of Representatives that will increase access to Small Business Administration (SBA) benefits for rural businesses. The amendment to H.R. 1332, the Small Business Lending Improvements Act of 2007, will help foster growth in rural economies. Rep. Cuellar’s amendment ensured that all rural small businesses are able to take advantage of the “Rural Lending Outreach Program” created by H.R. 1332. The program administers additional aid to small businesses in rural areas, ensuring that they are eligible for SBA benefits such as abbreviated application and documentation, as well as quick decisions on loan applications. The Cuellar amendment allows all small businesses to utilize the program regardless of their access to rural lenders. “Rural businesses play a vital role in the communities of South Texas and across the nation. The Rural Lending Outreach Program will spur economic growth and unleash a new generation of economic development in our rural communities,” said Cuellar. The Small Business Lending Improvements Act is part of the Democrats’ Innovation Agenda, designed to spur economic competitiveness and keep America at the forefront of global competition. The agenda involves partnership between the private sector and the federal government and will provide small businesses with tools to encourage entrepreneurial innovation. “Many people think of rural businesses as only family farms. In actuality, our rural communities are ripe with opportunities for business development. By investing in our rural businesses, we will create a workforce that is dynamic and competitive,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Not only will there be immediate benefits for current small business owners, but future generations will be better able to innovate and create progress.” “This bipartisan measure will make real and overdue progress for our economic community. My colleagues in the House and I are determined to enact legislation that provides real, workable solutions for the American people,” said Cuellar. “The bill will now be considered by the Senate and I hope to see it move quickly through the legislative process.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Pearsall Administration Building through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Pearsall Administration Building staff with a ceremonial check for $68,677.20 that will be used for telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Pearsall,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. The grant issued to the Pearsall Administration Building will be used for telecommunications services. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Wings of Life-Texas through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Wings of Life-Texas staff with a ceremonial check for $6,463.69 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Marion,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Two grants were awarded to Wings of Life-Texas, located in Marion. The first grant of $1,146.20 will be used for internet access, while the second grant of $5,317.49 will be used for telecommunications. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # #
04.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that a grant will be awarded to the Catholic Diocese of Laredo through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Catholic Diocese with a ceremonial check for $44,504.44 at St. Augustine High School Chapel. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Laredo,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. In total, eight grants were awarded to schools within the Catholic Diocese of Laredo. The grants will be used for telecommunications services and internet access. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. The grants awarded were:• Blessed Sacrament School: $1,992.00 for telecommunications• Diocese of Laredo: $14,183.05 for internet access, $12,845.31 for telecommunications• Mary Help of Christian School: $5,274.24 for telecommunications• Our Lady of Guadalupe School: $1,106.35 for telecommunications• St. Augustine Jr./Sr. High School: $7,060.99 for telecommunications• St. Peter’s Memorial School: $395.62 for internet access, $1,646.98 for telecommunications E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “With Congressman Cuellar’s continued support, we will move our schools forward,” said Dr. Rosa Maria Vida, Superintendent of the Catholic Diocese of Laredo. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that two grants were awarded to the Wilson County Library through the Schools and Libraries Program of the Universal Service Fund, commonly known as “E-rate.” This morning, representatives from the local office of Congressman Henry Cuellar presented the Wilson County Library with a ceremonial check for $14, 663.04 that will be used for internet access and telecommunications. “E-rate provides our school and libraries with invaluable assistance to obtain vital services for our students. Providing our youth with the very best in resources is imperative to ensuring their future success and I am proud that we have been able to secure funds to benefit the kids in Wilson County,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Two grants were issued to Wilson County. The first is a grant of $10,310.40 to be used for internet access and the second is a grant of $2,556.60 to be used for telecommunications. E-rate grants support connectivity by providing funding for internet access, telecommunication services, internal connections, and basic maintenance of internal connections. E-rate is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and provides discounts to assist schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and internet access. E-rate is one of four support programs funded through a Universal Service fee charged to companies that provide interstate and/or international communication services. “Through my own experience, I have realized how crucial a quality education is to being successful later in life. As a father and a Member of Congress, helping to provide the best possible resources to our children is a cause very close to my heart and a responsibility I take very seriously,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.24.2007	Today, Rep. Henry Cuellar highlighted the need for equal pay for women workers across America. Congressman Cuellar stated that ensuring that there is truly equal pay for equal work in this country should be a key priority for Congress and called for strengthening the Equal Pay Act of 1963 while maintaining fiscal responsibility and reducing any undue burden on small businesses. “Equal pay is not only a women’s issue, but a family issue. The wage gap hurts everyone because it lowers family incomes that pay for essential items. When women earn more, an entire family will benefit,” said Congressman Cuellar. The issue of equal pay for women was highlighted when President John Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963. At that time, women workers made 59 cents on average for every dollar earned by men. According to the 2006 Census Bureau, women are still only earning approximately 77 percent as much as men do. Minority women fare much worse—Hispanic women make only 55 cents on the dollar compared to white men, who are the highest earners. Because women earn less than their male counterparts, the average woman will have to work longer for the same amount of pay. Today, 41 percent of women are their families’ sole source of income, making it imperative to close the wage gap. The children in homes with a female primary-earner deserve to have the same opportunities and resources as every other child. “Ensuring that women receive equal pay for equal work is a common-sense issue that affects all working women and their families,” said Congressman Cuellar. “By ensuring that women earn more, the families of Texas’ 28th District will gain the resources they need to ensure that their children have access to a better future.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.20.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the 2007 Congressional Art Competition is now accepting submissions. The Congressional Art Competition gives the nation’s young artists the opportunity to compete to display their work in the United States Capitol Building. “This contest is a great way for students in our community to show their impressive artistic talents. I am pleased to invite all high school students from my district to participate in the local competition and am excited to have the artwork of South Texas in our Capitol,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “An Artistic Discovery” is the annual nationwide Congressional High School Art Competition. Each Member of Congress hosts a local competition amongst high school students. Local judges from Congressman Cuellar’s will select a winner from the district, who will have his or her artwork displayed in U.S. Capitol Building. First launched in 1982, this year marks the 25th anniversary of the Congressional Art Competition. Since then, thousands of contests have been held around the country involving more then 650,000 high school students. The deadline for submissions is Apr. 22. All artwork must be original and will be judged May 1-2. The winning artist will be awarded a trip to Washington, D.C. by Congressman Cuellar. The winning artist will be invited to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony at the U.S. Capitol on May 14. “The annual Arts Competition provides an excellent forum for demonstrating the significant role the arts play in our communities. Our youth deserve a broad education that includes a diverse combination of subjects and activities, and I am committed to bring opportunities such as ‘An Artistic Discovery’ to the students of Texas’ 28th District,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.# # # #
04.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), and applauded it passing the House of Representatives. The bill authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. In working on water infrastructure for the Colonias along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to projects in Webb and Zapata Counties. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin, the Secretary of the Army will review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design future construction work. Along Roma Creek, a study will commence to determine the possibility of projects to reduce flood damage. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I am proud of the Colonias provision, which was secured during a floor colloquy with Chairman Oberstar.” WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects along the San Antonio Channel, along Walnut Creek in Seguin and in the city of Dilley. The Secretary of the Army will assess current projects along the San Antonio Channel and determine what new steps should be taken to enhance flood control. The studies conducted along Walnut Creek and in Dilley will aim to reduce flood damage, control erosion and implement environmental restoration. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), and applauded it passing the House of Representatives. The bill authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin, the Secretary of the Army will review the possibility of further progress on the Raymondville Drain Project and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design future construction work. Along Roma Creek, a study will commence to determine the possibility of projects to reduce flood damage. In working on water infrastructure for the Colonias along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to projects in Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. “I am proud of the Colonias provision, which was secured during a floor colloquy with Chairman Oberstar.” WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects along the San Antonio Channel, along Walnut Creek and in the city of Dilley. The Secretary of the Army will assess current projects along the San Antonio Channel and determine what new steps should be taken to enhance flood control. The studies conducted along Walnut Creek in Seguin and in Dilley will aim to reduce flood damage, control erosion and implement environmental restoration. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), and applauded it passing the House of Representatives. The bill authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water projects in Texas’ 28th District. The Secretary of the Army will be able to review the plan for flood protection on the Guadalupe and San Antonio Rivers and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design future construction work. Additionally, the Secretary of the Army will conduct a study of Walnut Creek in Seguin to determine the possibility of future projects to reduce flood damage. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Texas’ 28th District. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects in the Rio Grande Basin, Dilley and Roma Creek. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin, the Secretary of the Army will be able to review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design construction work. In Roma Creek, the Secretary of the Army will conduct studies to determine the possibility of projects to reduce flood damage and control erosion. In working on water infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to Colonias projects in Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted for H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (WRDA), and applauded it passing the House of Representatives. The bill authorizes approximately $14 billion for water resources studies and construction projects and includes several provisions by Congressman Cuellar to initiate water in Texas’ 28th District. In Dilley, a project is authorized to reduce flood damage as determined by the Secretary of the Army. The project reaffirms the commitment of the federal government to help improve water resources infrastructure and address new water resources needs. “The passing of WRDA is a significant step towards improving the lives of the citizens of Dilley. The project will help reduce flood damage and enhance the area by providing essential resources to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. WRDA also provides for other assistance in South Texas, including projects in the Rio Grande Basin, San Antonio Channel, Walnut Creek in Seguin and Roma Creek. In the Lower Rio Grande Basin and San Antonio Channel, the Secretary of the Army will be able to review the possibility of further progress in flood control and determine what steps should be taken to plan and design construction work. In Roma Creek and Walnut Creek, the Secretary of the Army will conduct studies to determine the possibility of projects to reduce flood damage and control erosion. In working on water infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Border, special assistance will be given to Colonias projects in Webb, Zapata, Starr and Hidalgo Counties. “It is imperative that we address the water resource and flood damage reduction needs of South Texas. I remain committed to working in Congress to help South Texas to further progress and improve our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “It is my hope that the Senate will include these important provisions as it takes up the legislation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.17.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar introduced the Medicare Access to Rural Anesthesiology Act of 2007 to expand the availability of anesthesiology care in medically-underserved rural areas. Joined by Congressman Todd Akin, Congressman Cuellar introduced the Cuellar-Akin Rural Anesthesiology Bill that will allow rural hospitals to use Medicare Part A funds on a “pass-through” basis to pay for the services of anesthesiologists. “Throughout the nation, rural hospitals are experiencing a shortage of anesthesiology medical care. We want to encourage physicians to practice in rural areas and I am proud that the Cuellar-Akin Rural Anesthesiology Bill will accomplish that task,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. Medicare traditionally pays for anesthesia providers’ services under the Medicare Part B schedule. In the 1980s, a statutory exemption was enacted to allow rural hospitals to use Part A funds to employ or contract with non-physician anesthesiologist assistants or certified registered nurse anesthetists. However, the policy does not permit hospitals to use the pass-through funds to pay for anesthesiologists. The Cuellar-Akin Rural Anesthesiology Bill will resolve the oversight by extending the rural pass-through to anesthesiologists, enabling rural hospitals to recruit and retain more anesthesiologists. Additionally, it will help to expand the availability of anesthesiology care in rural areas that lack adequate services. “The health and well-being of my constituents is of deep concern to me. In Congress, I remain committed to introducing legislation to constantly improve the lives of the citizens of South Texas and nationwide. It gives me great satisfaction to know that I have taken a step towards enhancing people’s access to quality health care,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.17.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar hosted a video and teleconference focused on the reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. A representative from the Department of Education and Congressman Cuellar participated, as well as superintendents and educators from Texas’ 28th district. “It is very important to me to hear the concerns and opinions of teachers and education professionals in my district. They are the people encountering the everyday challenges and outcomes of No Child Left Behind, so I am proud that we were able to host such an important event,” said Congressman Cuellar. During the hour-long conference, participants in McAllen, Laredo and San Antonio were invited to comment and ask questions of Congressman Cuellar and Amanda Farris, Deputy Assistance Secretary of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Educators in the other nine counties of Texas’ 28th district participated via conference call. The conference featured an overview and update of No Child Left Behind, with a focus on progress in Texas’ 28th district, English Language Learners and Special Needs Students. Congressman Cuellar’s recent actions were also discussed, including his introduction of the Teachers and English Language Learners (TELL) Act, One-Stop Student Financial Aid Information Act of 2007 and his co-sponsorship of the Safe School Against Violence in Education Act. “I am happy and grateful for the opportunity to have today’s conference. It allowed us to open up dialogue, build relationships with our federal counterparts and foster discussion and thoughts that otherwise wouldn’t be possible,” said Dave Vinson, Superintendent of the Floresville Independent School District. “Improvements and forward progress in our schools will always be one of my top priorities. Education is the great equalizer for all of our young people and will provide students with better opportunities throughout their lives. I will continue to work to ensure the success of the educators and students in Texas’ 28th district,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.16.2007	Today, Congressman Cuellar announced that the City of Encinal received two grants of $10,000 from the National Endowment for the Arts. The first grant was awarded to the Economic Development Council and the second was awarded to Hecho Encinal, a non-profit organization. “The arts are an important part of the education and upbringing of our youth. I am happy to see the federal government partnering with local organizations to further this interest in the City of Encinal ,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar. The first grant, the Challenge America Fast-Track Review Grant, will be used to design and install new work by artist Deborah Mersky. She will work with young local artists to produce laser-cut steel panels that will be installed on the front of the Ruth Carr building. This building will become the community art center. “We are really delighted that the community of Encinal will benefit from the project and we are thankful for the help provided by the National Endowment of the Arts,” said Donna Lednicky, Board Member of the Encinal Economic Development Council. The second grant, the Media Arts Access to Artistic Excellence Grant, will support the Rural Filmmaker Exchange Program. The program will allow young filmmakers from Encinal and the surrounding areas to interact with other filmmakers from Whitesburg, Ky. Over the next year, these filmmakers will visit each location to attend workshops and public screenings designed to teach and encourage them to exchange ideas and opinions. “As a father of two girls, I know how vital the arts are in a child’s life. I will continue to work in Congress to bring funds to Texas’ 28th district and further programs for the youth of our communities,” said Congressman Cuellar Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
04.09.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar met with Texas Department of Transportation (TXDoT) district engineer Mario Jorge and other county and city officials to discuss upcoming projects that will affect Starr County. Among the numerous issues discussed were the implementation of new traffic lights along U.S. Highway 83, improvements to FM 755 and the refurbishing of rest areas. “These projects represent significant improvements to the infrastructure in Starr County,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Starr County has provided an example of how a community can benefit by partnering with the federal government, and I want to thank Mario Jorge for all of his hard work.” The design work for the traffic lights is in the early stages and is expected to be completed this summer. The Texas Department of Transportation expects to begin work in late July and complete the work by the end of August. The realignment of FM 755 will occur at the Starr/Camargo Bridge and will improve the flow of traffic to and from the international border crossing. Also along FM 755, drainage will be improved by the construction of a one-way curb and gutter section. TXDot is currently working with the Rio Grande City Maintenance foreman to upgrade the current rest areas in Zapata and Starr Counties. The refurbishing of the rest areas will include re-roofing and re-painting of existing facilities. “I am glad to see these projects moving forward. By communicating with TX DoT, local officials and Starr County residents, we have been able to bring much-needed assistance to our local communities. As a Member of Congress, I will continue working with community leaders to ensure that the people of South Texas experience further progress and improvements to our transportation systems,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
04.09.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley has been awarded $247,500 from Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley is the fourth largest in Texas, servicing Starr, Hidalgo, Cameron and Willacy counties. The grant is approved as an Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Special Project, a program under HUD. “This grant will help further the Food Bank project, which assists many communities across the Rio Grande Valley. My constituents’ health and well-being is a top priority for me, so I am pleased that the facility will be improved,” said Congressman Cuellar. EDI provides grants to enhance the economic development and revitalization projects that they have financed. The funds received by the Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley will be used for the purchase and renovation of an 111,000 square foot building in Pharr, Texas. “We are very pleased to receive the EDI Special Project Grant of $247,500. It will be used for the renovation and purchase of the Valley Fruit and Vegetable Facility in Pharr. This money will have a significant impact on our project,” said Terry Drefke, Director of the Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley. “I would like to commend my colleagues, Congressmen Ruben Hinojosa and Solomon Ortiz, for their continued efforts to improve our communities. I remain committed to providing the people of South Texas with services to better their quality of life,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
04.09.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar met with Texas Department of Transportation district engineer Mario Jorge and other county and city officials to discuss upcoming projects that will soon affect Starr County. Among the numerous issues discussed was the implementation of new traffic lights and the projected improvements on US HWY 83. “These projects are a fine example of our communities working together with the federal government,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Starr County will greatly benefit from the projects discussed today.” The design work for the traffic lights is in the early stages and is expected to be completed this summer. The Texas Department of Transportation expects to begin work in late July and complete the work by the end of August. Starr County is submitting a request for state funding under the Colonia Funding Program in order to upgrade US HWY 83. The Colonia Program was approved by voters in 2001 and sets aside state funding for improvements to colonia roads. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I am glad to see these projects moving forward. By communicating with TX DoT, local officials, and Starr County residents, we have been able to bring much needed assistance to our local communities. I’d like to thank district engineer Mario Jorge for providing Starr County with the information it needs to improve our neighborhoods. As a Member of Congress, I will continue working with community leaders and the federal government to ensure that people across South Texas receive the help they need.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
04.02.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) approved a project to build a new post office in the City of Schertz. “I am pleased to see this project moving forward,” said Congressman Cuellar. “After many meetings and communication with the people of Schertz, a new Post Office will serve this city in the near future. I have worked closely with Schertz towards their objective. The city will be well served by the new facility.” The new Schertz Main Post Office of 8,950 square feet will be constructed on land totaling 5.3 acres. The new Post Office is tentatively scheduled to be completed by November of 2008. Schertz Mayor Hal Baldwin said, “I am very pleased that the USPS has seen that the City of Schertz deserves a new Post Office. I would like to extend my gratitude to Congressman Cuellar for his efforts in helping us achieve our goal.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I’m committed to ensuring the federal government works closely with local governments in order to improve cities and communities across America. This initiative by the USPS is a fine example of just that kind of collaboration. I would like to thank Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson and Mayor Baldwin for their hard work in making sure that the City of Schertz receives the help it needs. As always, my door is always open to anyone who requires assistance from the federal government.” An official announcement will take place in the near future. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the awarding of a $5,500 grant to benefit the Zapata County Sheriff’s Department. Funded by the Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP), the money will be used to purchase an Optim Freedomview Fiber Optic Scope Kit. The Optim Freedomview Fiber Optic Scope Kit will be used for search and rescue, hidden compartment searches and pre-entry intelligence. With the scope, officers will be better able to search for contraband and be prepared to handle rescue operations in tight spaces. “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I am proud to have helped to obtain funds to Webb County secure. Not only will my constituents be helped, but the Sheriff’s Department will become more effective as a result of this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. CEDAP provides smaller communities and rural areas with technology and equipment assistance in order to enhance first responder capabilities throughout the nation. Additionally, CEDAP works with these communities to adequately train personnel and supply ongoing technical support. “Congressman Cuellar always keeps in mind all of his constituents and agencies. The people of Zapata County have benefited tremendously from the assistance of Congressman Cuellar,” said Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzalez, Jr.. “As a Member of Congress, my priority is to better the lives of my constituents and facilitate progress in our communities. I will continue to work closely with our local officials to bring federal aid to Texas’s 28th district,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the awarding of a $13,834 grant to benefit Mission’s Police Department. Funded by the Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP), the money will be used to purchase Stedi-Eye Gyro Stabilized Binoculars. Stedi-Eye Binoculars will enhance the Police Department’s patrol capabilities in the field. Patrol officers will better be able to closely monitor areas around the Rio Grande River, ensuring that the Mission Police Department will continue to excel at addressing homeland security issues in Mission. “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I am proud to have helped obtain funds to make Mission more secure. Not only will my constituents benefit, but the Police Department will become more effective as a result of this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. CEDAP provides smaller communities and rural areas with technology and equipment assistance in order to enhance first responder capabilities throughout the nation. Additionally, CEDAP works with these communities to adequately train personnel and supply ongoing technical support. “We are grateful to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for the grant and look forward to working with them in addressing the needs of law enforcement in the Rio Grande Valley,” said Robert Dominguez, Assistant Police Chief. “As a Member of Congress, my priority is to better the lives of my constituents and facilitate progress in our communities. I will continue to work closely with our local officials to bring federal aid to Texas’s 28th district,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the awarding of two grants to benefit the Webb County Sheriff Department and the El Cenizo Police Department. Funded by the Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP), the money will be used to purchase new equipment for the two agencies. The first grant of $33,100 will be used to purchase new Video Detective equipment for the Webb County Sheriff Department, Detective Division. The second grant of $12, 736 will be used to purchase a new Incident Commanders Radio Interface for the El Cenizo Police Department. “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I am proud to have helped to obtain funds to make Webb County more secure. Not only will my constituents benefit, but Webb County’s Sheriff Department and El Cenizo’s Police Department will become more effective as a result of these grants,” said Congressman Cuellar. CEDAP provides smaller communities and rural areas with technology and equipment assistance in order to enhance first responder capabilities throughout the nation. Additionally, CEDAP works with these communities to adequately train personnel and supply ongoing technical support. “As a Member of Congress, my priority is to better the lives of my constituents and facilitate progress in our communities. I will continue to work closely with our local officials to bring federal aid to Texas’ 28th district,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced the awarding of a $10,553 grant to benefit Jourdanton’s Police Department. Funded by the Department of Homeland Security’s Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP), the money will be used to purchase a new thermal imager. “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, I am proud to have helped to obtain funds to make Jourdanton and all of Atascosa County more secure. Not only will my constituents benefit, but the Police Department will become more effective as a result of this grant,” said Congressman Cuellar. CEDAP provides smaller communities and rural areas with technology and equipment assistance in order to enhance first responder capabilities throughout the nation. Additionally, CEDAP works with these communities to adequately train personnel and supply ongoing technical support. “I am grateful for Congressman Cuellar’s assistance and his continued support of law enforcement,” said Ronnie Lawson, Police Chief. “As a Member of Congress, my priority is to better the lives of my constituents and facilitate progress in our communities. I will continue to work closely with our local officials to bring federal aid to Texas’s 28th district,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.28.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced several key additions to legislation authorizing the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2008. Congressman Cuellar’s additions will ensure the creation of a Border Communities Liaison Officer in the Department of Homeland Security’s Policy Office, mandate an assessment to significantly reduce wait times at the border and give priority to on-site training for Southwest Border Patrol agents. The first provision that Congressman Cuellar was successful in adding to the authorization legislation will create a direct line of communication between elected officials and business leaders from border communities and policymakers at the Department of Homeland Security in Washington, D.C. “Before there is policy change regarding border practices, the voice of the community must be heard in Washington. This is why the creation of a Border Community Liaison in the Homeland Security Department is so important. We must not enact policy without considering the opinions of the people who will be affected the most,” said Congressman Cuellar. Congressman Cuellar’s second addition calls for an assessment to determine the staffing, infrastructure and technology needs to reduce wait times at the border. For the first time, the assessment will establish how much money the Department of Homeland Security needs to spend on infrastructure and staffing to reduce wait times at the nation’s borders. “It is so vitally imperative that we reduce the wait times at our borders and provide the resources they need to be fully operational. As a native of the border, I know firsthand how essential it is to reduce wait times at the border and bolster trade and tourism,” said Congressman Cuellar. Thirdly, Congressman Cuellar’s additions will institute the priority for local Border Patrol training along the Southwest border. This provision will grant agents training at locations where they will operate, giving them relevant and applicable experience. The authorization legislation was passed by the Homeland Security Committee and will go to the House floor in May. Congressman Cuellar’s provisions aim to find a route to improve the outdated border port facilities and resolve staffing issues. “We must take informed, proactive steps to create a viable and lasting solution to the problems at our nation’s borders. I am proud that I was able to bring the distinct voice of the citizens of our border communities to Congress and the Homeland Security Committee,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.27.2007	Today, the House passed H.R. 1401, including the two provisions introduced by Congressman Henry Cuellar. H. R. 1401, The Rail and Public Transportation Security Act of 2007, is a bill to improve railroad, public transportation, and over-the-road bus security. The additions introduced by Congressman Cuellar will make tremendous strides in enhancing the security of transportation systems at our international land borders.“My hometown is one of the busiest ports-of-entry into the United States and a hub of international commerce,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I know firsthand how important it is for us to rise to the challenge of making our transportation systems more secure. My amendments will help secure crucial funding to ensure the safety of the citizens not only in Laredo, but other key port cities nationwide.”The first provision added by Congressman Cuellar supports the development of emergency response and recovery techniques. The second provision makes critical grant funding for our international rail inspection facilities a priority. The Congressman developed these provisions with the help of Laredo elected officials, and city staff during their recent visit to Washington, D.C. The Congressman’s additions will significantly benefit communities in Texas with international rail crossings, including Laredo, Brownsville, Eagle Pass, Presidio and El Paso. Today, Congressman Cuellar rose on the House floor to speak in support of H.R. 1401 and the passage of his amendments. Congressman Cuellar said, “I am proud to support legislation that will make our nation’s rail, transit and bus systems more secure, and that will ensure the safety of citizens that live in places like New York, St. Louis, Detroit and Laredo, Texas.”Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.27.2007	This afternoon, the North American Development Bank and Border Environment Cooperation Commission Board of Directors certified that $19 million will be awarded to improve wastewater collection in the City of Pharr. The funds were received from the Bank’s Border Environment Infrastructure Fund (BEIF), which provides grants to make water and wastewater projects in the border region affordable to residents. “I applaud the efforts of the BEIF in the awarding of these funds, and commend Mayor Palacios and the City Council for collaborating with the BEIF to bring much-needed funding to such a vital project,” said Congressman Cuellar. The funds will provide $17 million for construction grant assistance, with the remaining $2 million going towards transition grant assistance. These funds will allow for essential improvements to the wastewater collection system, including the construction of three new lift stations, the decommissioning of nine existing lift stations, the construction of force mains and the installation of gravity sewers. “We have worked very hard with banking institutions and government agencies to secure grant money for our sewer project. I am very pleased to announce that the grant money is going to help our community in a way that will not place a burden on our taxpayers. I am so proud of where the City of Pharr is today and we look forward to working with Congressman Cuellar in the future to bring added progress to the community,” said Mayor Palacios, City of Pharr. “As a Member of Congress, I realize how crucial it is for lending agencies and agents of the government to work together to better our communities. The progress of our communities and the well-being of my constituents remain my top priorities, and I will continue to secure federal funds for projects that will achieve these goals,” said Congressman Cuellar.Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.####
03.21.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the planned Anzalduas Bridge has received $7,478,000 from the General Services Administration (GSA). The GSA was able to secure the final portion of the $25,200,000 needed to complete funding for the Border Inspection Facilities at the Anzalduas Bridge. “Our border cities have seen a significant increase of international crossings and business between the United States and Mexico. This money will provide for a strong and successful international port of entry,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Assisting projects such as the Anzalduas Bridge is vital to the tourism and trade that is shared between the two nations.” The Anzalduas Bridge – a joint project between the cities of Mission, McAllen, and Hidalgo -- will be located approximately five kilometers up the Rio Grande from the Hidalgo-Reynosa Bridge, connecting Mission with Reynosa. McAllen Bridge Director George Ramon said, “We have a viable project, a formidable team, and the financial capacity to provide both the US and Mexico with a unique opportunity. It is our intent to develop a state of the art facility that will serve to accommodate changing technologies, speed, and accessibility to markets.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness, and Response, I am committed to ensuring that our international crossings receive the resources they need to adequately serve our borders. I’d like to thank McAllen Mayor Richard Cortez, Hidalgo Mayor John David Franz, Mission Mayor Beto Salinas, GSA, McAllen Bridge Director George Ramon, and other local officials for working together to move this project forward. As a Member of Congress, I will continue searching for ways in which to promote trade, tourism, and economic development.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that ACCION Texas has been awarded $720,000 from the Economic Development Administration (EDA). ACCION is a statewide non-profit organization aimed at helping small businesses that have difficulty getting loans from banks. “These funds will help potential Laredo and Webb County business owners obtain the resources needed to start their businesses,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The creation and success of small businesses are economically necessary for our growing communities, and the assistance that the EDA has provided for ACCION Texas will surely benefit the City of Laredo, Webb County, and it’s surrounding communities.” This investment supports the purchase and renovation of a building in Laredo to house an ACCION regional hub for small and micro-business lending, technical assistance and financial literacy training. The money will also save 250 jobs, create 50 new jobs, and attract more than $180,000 in private investment. President and CEO of ACCION Texas Janie Barrera said, “ACCION Texas is excited about the generous support from the Economic Development Administration in helping us to purchase a wonderful building that will enable us to expand our services in Laredo and surrounding counties through our new ACCION Texas Border Entrepreneurship and Business Financial Training Center. We want people to know we are here for them with access to capital and training as they start and grow their businesses. We’re here to help small businesses thrive and contribute to a vibrant economy in the City and region.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “As a member of the House Small Business Committee, I strongly support the collaboration between small business owners and the federal government. I’d like to commend the EDA for providing the citizens of Laredo and Webb County with the chance to make a difference in our community. I would also like to thank Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez and regional EDA administrator Pedro Garza for their continued efforts in helping our communities achieve their economic goals.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.19.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar, along with Congressman Ric Keller (FL-08), introduced the One-Stop Student Financial Aid Information Act of 2007. The bill aims to ensure that students with an interest in postsecondary education have the best access to information about different forms of financial aid offered by the federal government. “I believe that students should be aware of the opportunities they have,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The costs of going to college are increasing, and students and their families deserve an easy way to help them identify federally-funded financial aid and related programs that they are eligible for.” Currently, financial aid programs are not consolidated, making students pay for services to complete the search, or invest large amounts of time completing the search themselves. This act will require all federal departments and agencies to submit any financial aid opportunities to a central hub that will be administered by the Department of Education. Congressman Cuellar continued, “With education being one of my top priorities, I believe it is necessary to make college-bound students aware of the many forms of financial aid they may apply for. As a Member of Congress, I will continue pushing for legislation that helps all working families send their children to college.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.16.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) approved a project to build a new post office in the City of Floresville. “I am glad to see this project moving forward,” said Congressman Cuellar. “After many meetings and communication with the people of Floresville, a new Post Office will serve this city in the near future.” Mayor Daniel Tejada said, “The City is thankful to Congressman Cuellar for his diligent efforts to secure a new Post Office in Floresville. The area is growing rapidly, and this is another way to accommodate the growing trends of our community.” The new Floresville Main Post Office of 5,830 square feet will be constructed on land totaling 3.8 acres donated by the Floresville Economic Development Corporation. The Post Office is tentatively scheduled to be completed by October of 2008. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I’m committed to ensuring the federal government works closely with local governments in order to improve cities and communities across America. This initiative by the USPS is a fine example of just that kind of collaboration. As always, my door is always open to anyone who requires assistance from the federal government.” The Congressman will be formally announcing the new post office on Saturday, March 24 at 8:00 P.M. in conjunction with the annual Chamber of Commerce Banquet. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.07.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar introduced the Teachers of English Language Learners (TELL) Act. The act helps teachers become certified in Teaching English as a Second Language by providing tax deductions for eligible expenses. The TELL act also aims to recruit highly qualified teachers to eligible high-need schools with significant English Language Learners (ELL) rates by providing tax credits that extend for up to ten years. “Education has always been one of my top priorities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This is an effective way to help educators obtain the training they need to teach our Limited English Proficiency (LEP) students.” To best serve LEP students, teachers must have Teaching English as Second Language skills, or any similar accreditation. The TELL act simplifies the accreditation process and makes it easier for students to receive the education they need. Congressman Cuellar continued, “The 28th Congressional District has schools where LEP students make up more than 40% of the student body. We must provide ESL teachers with the proper tools needed to continue educating America’s youth, and I will continue fighting to ensure that our educators are properly equipped with the tools necessary to teach this population.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.02.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Laredo Fire Department will receive a $1,552,500 grant from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The funds are allocated from the Department’s Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response, I’m delighted to the see federal dollars reaching our local first responders,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Grant programs like this one are crucial in ensuring that our nation’s first responders are properly equipped and trained. As subcommittee chair I will continue fighting to ensure that programs like this one are properly funded and accessible.” The goal of the SAFER program is to enhance the ability of grantees to attain and maintain 24-hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire and fire-related hazards. This grant also intends to create a net increase in the number of trained, certified, and competent firefightersLaredo Mayor Raul G. Salinas said, “Congressman Cuellar understands that City of Laredo firefighters are on the frontline protecting not only the citizens of this city, but also of this country. This grant will help us adequately staff our fire department with enough firefighters to meet the growing challenge of a growing community.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
03.02.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley has been awarded $247,500 from Housing and Urban Development. The Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley is the fourth largest in Texas, and includes Starr, Hidalgo, Cameron, and Willacy counties. The grant is approved as an Economic Development Initiative (EDI) Special Project, a program under HUD. “This grant will help further the Food Bank project, which assists many communities across the Rio Grande Valley,” said Congressman Cuellar. While this grant may be used in a variety of ways, the grant will be used for the purchase and renovation of a 111,000 sq. ft. historic building in Pharr, Texas. EDI provides grants for two reasons: 1. To enhance the security of loans guaranteed through the section 108 program, and2. To enhance the feasibility of the economic development and revitalization projects that they finance. Terry Drefke, Rio grande Valley Food Bank Director, echoed these statements by saying, “We are very pleased to receive the EDI Special Project Grant for $247,500; it will be used for the renovation and purchase the Valley fruit and vegetable facility in Pharr. This money will have a significant impact on our project.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I would like to commend my colleague, Congressman Ruben Hinojosa, for his continued efforts to improve many communities in South Texas. I will continue fighting to ensure that every citizen is provided with the proper means to not go hungry and stay healthy.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
03.01.2007	On Wednesday, February 28, Congressman Henry Cuellar welcomed Eddie Aldrete, Senior Vice President for the International Bank of Commerce, to Washington DC and congratulated him on his joining the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Board of Directors. “Eddie Aldrete has proven to be a dedicated community leader,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I nominated him because I know he will bring many great ideas to the institute. I have always believed that the institute should represent Hispanics from all walks of life, and Mr. Aldrete’s experience as a business leader will be a valuable asset as the institute moves forward.” The CHCI was created to increase opportunities for Hispanics to participate in and contribute to the American policy making process. With the help of both Congressional and business leaders, the CHCI has been able to offer incredible work experiences in the public sector to young Hispanics across America. CHCI has become well known for its public policy fellowship, scholarship award and congressional internship programs. “Not everyone gets the opportunity to see how their government works up close and personal. But those who have the interest and desire need to know that opportunities like this do exist, and my plan is to get more Texas students into the application pipeline,” said Mr. Aldrete. He continued, “My father taught me that greater opportunities come with educational attainment, and for many students, this kind of internship program provides the experience of a lifetime. I’m grateful to Congressman Cuellar for providing me the opportunity to help more Texas students take advantage of these opportunities.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip. ###
02.20.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar celebrated the arrival of a new federally funded fire engine for the Cibolo Volunteer Fire Department. Funds for the purchase of this new fire truck were secured in August of 2005 under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is a program of the Preparedness Directorate's Office of Grants and Training in DHS, grants are awarded to fire departments to enhance their ability to protect the public and fire service personnel from fire and related hazards. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response, I’m delighted to the see real and tangible results of federal first responder funding,” said Congressman Cuellar. “Grant programs like this are crucial in ensuring that our nation’s first responders are properly equipped and trained. As subcommittee chair I will continue fighting to ensure that programs like this one are properly fund and accessible.” The new tanker/pumper truck has a 1500 gallon water capacity and is also equipped to dispense foam for extinguishing petroleum fueled fires. In addition to its fire fighting capabilities it is also equipped with advanced life support and emergency extraction and rescue equipment. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
02.16.2007	Today, Congress passed H.R. 976, Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007, which Congressman Henry Cuellar voted in favor of. This bipartisan bill provides for $1.3 billion in tax cuts that are specifically designed to help small businesses invest in new equipment and promote hiring of disadvantaged workers. H.R. 976 will help small businesses to grow and hire new workers, keeping our economy strong. “This bill is a direct result of Democrats and Republicans putting aside partisan rancor and finding common ground,” noted Congressman Cuellar. “Congress must ensure that small businesses, which employ roughly fifty percent of America’s workers, remain strong and continue to grow. As a member of the small business committee, and as a small business owner myself, I am particularly aware of their needs, concerns, and the impact they have on local communities and economies. If small businesses grow, jobs will also grow.” This bill extends the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) -- which provides incentives to employers to hire individuals from targeted groups that frequently experience barriers to work -- for one year and expand it to cover disabled veterans. It also simplifies tax filing requirements for businesses owned jointly by husbands and wives, and ensures that small businesses are fully able to claim the WOTC and tip credit against Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) liability. The measure, which is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufactures, National Federation of Independent Business, and National Restaurant Association, is fully paid for. “This new Congress has once again demonstrated its support for working Americans,” continued Congressman Cuellar. “We have voted to raise the minimum wage and we have voted to keep America’s small businesses competitive and thriving. I will continue to support common sense bipartisan legislation that keeps America working.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
02.14.2007	On Wednesday, February 14, Congressman Henry Cuellar held a video and telephone conference for superintendents and other educators in the 28th Congressional District to discuss education issues. Also participating in the conference was David Dunn, Chief of Staff for Margaret Spellings, the Secretary of Education. “This Congress is planning to introduce many important pieces of legislation that will focus on education,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I believe that it is vital to hear the perspective and gather the advice of educators in the 28th Congressional District of Texas regarding these matters. I am pleased that Mr. Dunn from the Department of Education was also able to join us and contribute to our conversation. I believe it is important that Congress work with the Department of Education to find common ground.” Participants discussed many issues, among them the No Child Left Behind Act. They gathered ideas and suggestions about its reauthorization, and received explanations and clarifications from the Department of Education. The educators also discussed other issues of concern to them, including: • Students with Limited English Proficiency• Special Needs Students• Grants for schools, and• Teacher recruitment and retention Congressman Cuellar continued, “I intend to hold more of these conferences in the future. I believe that this type of communication and collaboration is a wonderful example of how to craft effective legislation, while at the same time communicating Congress’ efforts to the educators of the 28th Congressional District.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
02.07.2007	Today, Congress passed H.R. 365, The Methamphetamine Remediation Research Act of 2007, which was co-sponsored by Congressman Henry Cuellar. The bill charges the Environmental Protection Agency with the development of health-based guidelines to assist state and local authorities in cleaning up former methamphetamine lab sites. “Methamphetamine labs are often found in residential areas such as houses or hotel rooms. The chemicals used in making methamphetamines are highly toxic and dangerous, thus, the residue left behind could threaten the health of anybody who uses that space in the future,” said Congressman Cuellar. Currently, there are no health-based guidelines established to determine whether a former methamphetamine lab can be considered a safe living environment. This bill will help create standards that can be followed in order to deem residential environments livable. The bill would also:• Direct the National Institute of Standards and Technology to consult with EPA in developing technologies to detect methamphetamine labs, emphasizing in field test kits for law enforcement.• Require the National Academy of Sciences to study the long-term health impacts of methamphetamine exposure on first-responders and on children taken from methamphetamine lab sites. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I am proud to co-sponsor a bill that will help protect our communities. This bill works to ensure our neighborhoods remain safe, clean and free of deadly toxins.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.31.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar voted in favor of a $463 billion joint funding resolution for fiscal year 2007, which completes work on last year’s appropriations bills. Under this resolution most programs will be funded at 2006 levels adjusted for increased pay cost. Adjustments were made to meet critical needs, which include: Veterans Healthcare and Defense Health programs; public housing programs; scientific research; and Labor, Health and Education spending. The resolution is also earmark free and made cuts to over 60 programs in order to free funds for vital programs. The resolution increased funding for many vital programs including:• $3.6 billion increase for Veterans Healthcare• $1.2 billion increase for Defense Health Programs • $216.6 million increase for the FBI• $109 million increase for Byrne Justice Assistance Formula Grants• $70 million increase for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS)• $615.4 million for additional Pell Grants• $200 million increase for Special Education Grants• $125 million increase for reading programs for low-income children (K-12)• $103.7 million increase for Head Start Programs• $206.9 million increase to finance new community centers• $619.5 million increase for additional National Institutes of Health (NIH) Research • $300 million increase for renewable energy research• $1.7 billion increase for Housing and Urban Development programs “As members of Congress we are often called upon to make difficult decisions, this bill while cutting many worthy programs, helps us return fiscal discipline to Washington,” noted Congressman Cuellar. “While I’m disappointed about the loss of several earmarks that would have directly benefited my district, I voted for this bill because it focuses our resources on programs that are vital to working Americans. By passing this joint funding resolution the new Congress has shown the American people that it can clean up the fiscal mess left behind by the previous majority. We have demonstrated that we can be good fiscal stewards, while at the same time increasing funding for education, health care, renewable energy research, local law enforcement and first responders, and veterans programs.” I always appreciate hearing from residents in the 28th Congressional District, and hope that you will allow me to keep you updated on my work in Congress. I encourage you to visit my website at http://www.house.gov/cuellar/newsletter-signup.shtml and fill out my online e-newsletter subscription form in order to better communicate with me and my office. Henry Cuellar Member of Congress Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.30.2007	As a lifelong resident of the U.S. border with Mexico, I know quite well the economic and security challenges that have become a part of the everyday lives of my constituents. Since I arrived in Washington to serve in Congress, I have committed myself to improving the lives of Americans living on the border. One thing I have learned is that improvements in border conditions cannot take place in a vacuum. If we are to make any progress, we must work together with our Mexican counterparts. My first priority is and always has been providing local, state, and federal law enforcement officials with the resources they need – last year alone I helped secured five million dollars in additional funding for Texas border sheriffs. For fiscal year 2007, I am supporting a continuing resolution that will allocate $542 million for Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS), an increase of $70 million and $520 million for Byrne Justice Assistance Formula Grants, an increase of $109 million. Law enforcement has always been incredibly important to me as I have three brothers that are peace officers. However, I believe we must also use U.S. foreign aid to help curb border violence. That is why I introduced the Prosperous and Secure Neighbor Alliance (PSNA) Act of 2007 with Intelligence Committee Chairman Silvestre Reyes earlier this month. This bill, which is also supported by all Texas border Congressmen, would increase foreign assistance to Mexico to improve security and promote economic development. Increased aid is crucial in curbing the drug trade and drug-related violence in both Mexico and the U.S. I am shocked that Colombia received $561 million and Peru received $146 million in 2006 while Mexico – our southern neighbor and second largest trading partner– only received $69 million. Funds for the PSNA Act would be secured by reprogramming existing funds that are currently used for foreign aid, and would not impact other federal programs. Foreign aid must be reallocated if we are to enhance security at home and in neighboring Mexico. Mexico’s newly inaugurated President, Felipe Calderón, has pledged to make the reduction of drugs and violence a priority. He recently reinforced this pledge by unconditionally extraditing several high level drug cartel members to the United States. Congress should take a similar leadership role by supporting President Calderón’s efforts to promote a safer and more prosperous Mexico. These actions will help improve the safety of everyone that lives along the U.S. – Mexico border. The PSNA Act would provide Mexico with funding for the next five years to professionalize the Mexican police force, upgrade technology used in the Drug War, strengthen the judicial branch, train prosecutors and judges, establish anti-corruption programs and promote economic and social development. Veteran U.S. police, judges, prosecutors, and economic development officials would be sent to Mexico to assist them in meeting these goals. The legislation will also call attention to the impact that the demand for illicit drugs in the United States has on violence in Mexico and along the U.S. – Mexico border by requiring the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to submit a report to Congress detailing the most effective strategies for reducing the demand for illegal drugs in the U.S. To address concerns that the funds could be misspent, I specifically included several provisions in this bill to ensure that the foreign assistance provided to Mexico is done so transparently and with significant accountability. If this is not done, the U.S. President and/or the U.S. Congress would be authorized to discontinue funding. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response (first responders), I’ll continue to support increased assistance to law enforcement agencies along the U.S. – Mexico border. However, I strongly believe that multinational problems like the drug war require multinational solutions. The PSNA Act would promote a strengthened U.S. – Mexico partnership while improving the lives of Americans living along the border who have suffered for far too long.
01.29.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar introduced the Secure Border Crossing Card Entry Act of 2007. A companion bill was introduced by Senator John Cornyn of Texas earlier today. The bill mandates that Mexican nationals with laser visas, a machine-readable border crossing card, be given the same length-of-stay opportunities as Canadian visitors. Currently Mexican nationals with laser visas are allowed to enter this country for up to 30 days, while Canadian visitors, who do not use laser visas, are allowed to stay for up to six months. “This bill addresses what I believe to be a serious imbalance in the way our government treats foreign guests,” said Congressman Cuellar. “We must strive to treat all of our foreign guests fairly, regardless of their national origin. Mexican nationals that hold laser visas have already undergone a rigorous vetting and screening process and are screened again as they enter the United States. To treat them differently than our Canadian visitors, who do not undergo such a vetting process, would be unfair.” Secure Border Crossing Card Entry Act of 2007: • Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to ensure that Mexicans with laser visas who have completed security screening receive the same period of time in the U.S. as Canadians—six months. • Retains the Secretary of Homeland Security’s authority to set the length of time such individuals can be in United States. • Grants the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to modify admission periods on a case-by-case basis if good cause exists. • Bars eligibility for the six-month admission period if the foreign national is inadmissible, has previously violated his or her nonimmigrant status, or the laser visa was not processed through a machine reader at the U.S. port of entry. Congressman Cuellar continued, “I strongly believe that we must work to build and maintain secure borders with both of our neighbors. However, we must also work to ensure that we do not unduly impede the travel of those who are here for legitimate reasons. Our nation is the predominate global power because we have always strived to maintain an open and free exchange of capital and knowledge; this bill helps us maintain that flow.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.26.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Charlotte Independent School District was awarded $188, 289.01 from the Universal Service Administrative Company, a program administered by the Federal Communications Commission. The money will provide financial support for telecommunications services in schools across the United States. Charlotte ISD will use the funds to update technology and internet service throughout the school. “Without access to the latest technology, students miss an entire world of knowledge. It is extremely important that all school districts have new technology such as internet access, and this program ensures that Charlotte ISD will have the tools necessary to educate our students so they may succeed in life and realize their dreams.” Congressman Cuellar noted. The funds were obtained through the School and Libraries program of the Universal Service Administrative Company, which is maintained through contributions made by telecommunications providers across the country and extends discounts to assist most schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and Internet access. “We would like to sincerely thank Congressman Cuellar for his support of education and the students of Charlotte ISD. We appreciate his efforts in helping us obtain E-Rate funding from the Universal Service Administrative Company in excess of $180,000.00. With this financial commitment to Charlotte ISD and its students, we look forward to the many benefits that technology has to offer our school district. Along with Congressman Cuellar’s support we are committed in offering an educational program that will allow students to develop to their full potential, said Alfonso Obregon, Superintendent of Charlotte ISD. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.26.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Cotulla Independent School District was awarded $507,975 from the Universal Service Administrative Company, a program administered by the Federal Communications Commission. The money will provide financial support for telecommunications services in schools across the United States. Cotulla ISD will use the funds to update technology and internet service throughout the school. “Without access to the latest technology, our students suffer a serious disadvantage. It is extremely important that all school districts have access to the latest technology, such as the internet. This program ensures that Cotulla ISD will have the tools necessary to educate our students so they may succeed in life and realize their dreams.” Congressman Cuellar noted. The funds were obtained through the School and Libraries program of the Universal Service Administrative Company, which is maintained through contributions made by telecommunications providers across the country and extends discounts to assist most schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and Internet access. “The program has leveled the playing field: Cotulla ISD now has internet access capabilities comparable to a resource rich school district. This internet access has increased the student’s ability to learn and the teacher’s ability to teach.,” said John Ristaino, Technology Director of Cotulla ISD. “The support of Congressman Henry Cuellar brings the world digitally to the door step of Cotulla ISD, increasing our students’ skills and knowledge to make our country strong and prosperous.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.26.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced that the Poteet Independent School District was awarded $238,078.46 from the Universal Service Administrative Company, a program administered by the Federal Communications Commission. The money will provide financial support for telecommunications services in schools across the United States. Poteet ISD will use the funds to update technology and internet service throughout the school. “Providing our students with access to new technology ensures that our students are able to take advantage of an entire world of knowledge. These funds will assist Poteet ISD in obtaining these much needed services and give our students the tools they need to succeed after graduation,” Congressman Cuellar noted. The funds were obtained through the School and Libraries program of the Universal Service Administrative Company, which is maintained through contributions made by telecommunications providers across the country and extends discounts to assist most schools and libraries in the United States to obtain affordable telecommunications and Internet access. "On behalf of the Poteet Independent School District students, parents and staff members, I am pleased to announce that we have been notified that we been approved to receive $270,610.08 for Year 9 of E-rate based on the January 16, 2007 Wave 39 release. These funds will allow us to expand and upgrade our technology infrastructure and resources as well as provide funds for much needed maintenance for existing district-level and campus-level infrastructures.” said Dr. Sharon L. Doughty, Superintendent, Poteet ISD. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.25.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar announced $414,000 for the City of McAllen Fire Department. These funds are made available through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program of the Department of Homeland Security. “This program is a great example of federal dollars being used to assist local communities,” said Congressman Cuellar. “As our representative in Congress, I’ll continue working to secure federal dollars for border communities.” The SAFER grant program’s goal is to enhance the ability of local fire departments to attain and maintain 24- hour staffing and to assure that their communities have adequate protection from fire-related hazards. This program assists local communities by providing the financial assistance necessary to recruit, hire, train, and retain both volunteer and professional fire fighters and emergency medical personnel. The SAFER program provides competitive grants totaling approximately $103,000,000 to fire departments and statewide or local firefighter interest groups across the nation. Congressman Cuellar continued, “As the new chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response, I will continue to work to ensure that our local police and fire departments will have the tools to be effective in their communities. I’m honored to see the direct and concrete results of the committee’s work. And, I look forward to many more of these grant presentations here in McAllen. I’d also like to recognize Congressman Ruben Hinojosa for helping to make this grant a reality.” “This is great news for our city because of our City’s explosive growth. This grant will allow us to be responsive to the emergency demands placed on our fire department. This will allow our firefighters to safely and efficiently mitigate hazards to the community. We appreciate Congressman Cuellar’s efforts,” said Mayor Richard F. Cortez, City of McAllen. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.24.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar was selected to serve as a member of the United States House of Representatives Small Business Committee. “I look forward to working with my new colleagues in the Small Business Committee,” noted Congressman Cuellar. “The Small Business Committee plays a crucial role in ensuring that our nation’s economy continues to grow and prosper. Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy; they represent 99.7 percent of all employer firms, employ half of all private sector employees, and pay more than 45 percent of total U.S. private payroll. In order to continue this growth and prosperity, Congress must work with small businesses to make government contracting more accessible.” Congressman Cuellar continued, “I will work with local chambers of commerce, small business owners, and my committee colleagues in crafting sensible policies that keep America working. As a small business owner myself, I understand the sacrifice and hard work that goes into building and maintaining a successful small business. I will help ensure that small business owners are given proper consideration in the legislative process.” The House Committee on Small Business is composed of the following subcommittees:• Subcommittee on Finance and Taxo SBA Lending and Investment programs: 7(a), 504, SBIC, and Micro-loano Oversight of tax, retirement, and pensions issues• Subcommittee on Contracting and Technologyo SBA Contracting programs: 8(a), SBD, Vets, Women’s Business Centerso SBA Technology programs: SBIR, STTRo Oversight of government-wide procurement practices as related to small businesseso Oversight of technology issues• Subcommittee on Regulations, Health Care, and Tradeo Regulatory Flexibility Act, SBREFA, SBA Office of Advocacy, and Paperwork Reduction Acto Oversight of regulatory issues that affect small business o Oversight health care issueso Oversight of trade issues• Subcommittee on Rural and Urban Entrepreneurshipo SBA entrepreneurial development programs: WBC, Vets Corp, SBDC, BICs, and Drug Free Workplaceo New markets programs: NMVC and PRIMEo Oversight of federal government entrepreneurial development programso Oversight of agricultural and energy issues• Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversighto Oversight of SBA Administration, Management, and Agency Practices Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Small Business, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities. Congressman Cuellar is also a Majority Senior Whip.
01.24.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) joined his colleagues in Washington, DC as they took their oath to become members of the 110th Congress. Congressman Cuellar begins his second term representing the 28th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Guadalupe, Wilson, Frio, Atascosa, La Salle, McMullen, Webb, Zapata, Jim Hogg, Starr, and parts of Bexar and Hidalgo Counties. “I am honored that the people of the 28th District of Texas have once again entrusted me to represent them in Congress. I will continue to work hard to produce real results for our communities and to improve the quality of life for all Americans. This includes pushing for legislation that addresses issues such as education, healthcare, and economic development,” said Congressman Cuellar. “I will continue fighting to protect the interests of working Americans, and will join with all my Congressional colleagues in looking for bipartisan solutions in the 110th Congress.” The Congressman was sworn in by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi at 4:30 P.M. today. He was joined by his wife, Imelda, and his two daughters, Christy and Catie. Please see attached picture. Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture Committees in the 110h Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities
01.18.2007	Today, Congressman Henry Cuellar was selected to serve as Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response. The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes: interoperability and other emergency communications; first responders; the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); state and local preparedness and response; private sector preparedness; national response plans and planning; and public health preparedness. “I’m deeply honored and humbled to have been chosen to serve as the Chairman of such an essential subcommittee,” said Congressman Cuellar. “The Emergency Communications, Preparedness & Response Subcommittee plays a crucial role in ensuring that our local police and fire departments have the tools they need to effective. I look forward to working with my committee colleagues to improve our nation’s ability to respond to emergency situations. Whether it’s local first responders or federal disaster response, Americans should have faith in their government’s ability to respond to unforeseen incidents.” Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson said, “It gives me great pleasure to welcome Henry to the Committee on Homeland Security. As one of Laredo’s favorite sons, Congressman Cuellar, came to Washington with a promise to keep his focus and priorities relevant to his constituents. His leadership on the Committee, balancing privacy protections as much as homeland protections, will be an invaluable asset.” Congressman Cuellar was also appointed to serve as a member of the Border, Maritime, and Global Counterterrorism Subcommittee. This Subcommittee oversees operations along the border, including the implementation and construction of a border fence. “This Subcommittee assignment will help me to ensure that the views and opinions of those that live along the border are heard when Congress considers issues of border security,” noted Congressman Cuellar. “I will fight to protect the interests of our border communities, while working to enhance our nation’s safety and security.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities.
01.17.2007	Today, Congress passed HR 5, the College Student Relief Act, which was co-sponsored by Congressman Henry Cuellar. This bill will help make higher education accessible and affordable by cutting the interest rates in half on certain subsidized student loans over the next five years. Interest rates on subsidized student loans for undergraduates would be cut from the current 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. “The cost of attending college has continued growing at an unprecedented rate,” noted Congressman Cuellar. “A college education is now out-of-reach for many working families. The cost of public universities has increased by 41 percent after inflation since 2001 and jumped by 17 percent after inflation for private universities.” Once fully phased in, this bill would save the typical borrower, with $13,800 in subsidized federal student loan debt, approximately $4,400 over the life of the loan. Additionally, cutting interest rates has widespread bipartisan support, with 88 percent of the American public supporting interest rate cuts. “Our economy relies heavily on having a highly-skilled and well-educated workforce,” continued Congressman Cuellar. “For America to remain the preeminent global economic player, we must ensure that our students have access to all levels of education. This bill is a step forward in helping working families send their children to college.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Homeland Security, Budget, and Agriculture Committees in the 110th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care, economic development, and national security are his priorities.
09.19.2006	In December of 2004, on the eve of my joining the United States Congress, Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison invited me to a Texas bipartisan delegation meeting in Washington, D. C. with top executives from Union Pacific Railroad. The agenda: to discuss the inordinately high number of train accidents and derailments that had been occurring in Texas, and more importantly, the growing number of fatalities tied to these accidents. I learned that the 28th Congressional District I was about to represent had the dubious distinction of having the highest number of fatalities in Texas, and one of the highest railway fatality rates in all of the United States in 2004. During this meeting we were told that changes would be made and the problems would receive immediate attention at the highest levels of the railroads’ administration.Unfortunately, some of the issues we addressed in 2004 still exist in 2006, and the derailments and fatalities continue to occur. Action must be taken to make American railroads safe. The most common cause of many of these railway deaths is one that is completely preventable: chronic fatigue and exhaustion.A 1997 survey of more than 1,500 freight crew members by the North American Rail Alertness Partnership—a group of industry, government and union officials—found that about 80% of the workers had reported to work while tired, extremely tired or exhausted. In the years since that study, the issues of documented fatigue have continued to grow. Following a 2004 train derailment in the 28th Congressional District in Southern San Antonio, the Federal Railroad Administration concluded that crew fatigue was the likely cause of the accident that resulted in three fatalities and serious injuries to over fifty residents that had been sleeping only moments before. The deaths and injuries were caused by a toxic cloud of chlorine gas that escaped from a damaged tanker car and descended on an unsuspecting community. Had that derailment occurred only a mile up the rail line and just three hours later, hundreds of school children could have been killed. Many of these locomotives are carrying dangerous chemicals that, if spilled could prove hazardous to local communities. Railroad commerce is and always will be an important part of our national economy. But that commerce must be balanced with safety. This issue clearly crosses partisan lines as surely as the rail lines crisscross our nation. Derailments don’t occur in Republican or Democratic communities. They occur all over America—period. Now is the time for the Congress—Democrats and Republicans alike—to hold hearings, get to the bottom of the problem. Together, America can do better.
05.31.2006	Congressman Henry Cuellar announced today that Laredo has secured congressional intent to support the removal of Carrizo cane from certain locations along the banks of the Rio Grande. In report language to accompany HR 5441, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007, the Committee on Appropriations stated “The Committee understands that the removal of Carrizo cane from certain Rio Grande border locations may improve conditions for Border Patrol operations, and directs CBP to utilize the resources necessary for this removal if it is determined to be necessary” George Alteglt who is the head of the Rio Grande International Study group noted, “We commend the Department of Homeland Security for helping us further address the porous nature of the border.” This intent language will help to ensure that the Carrizo cane, a non-native plant which impedes Border Patrol operations by obscuring visibility, will be removed. This will ultimately increase safety along the border. “I commend the members of the Appropriations Committee and especially Congressman Cuellar for pursuing these projects for Laredo. We appreciate that Congress is noting the importance of the Carrizo removal and including this language in their bill, HR 5441, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. This acknowledgement goes a long way towards our plans for Laredo’s river bend ecosystem restoration project and our efforts to improve the river’s health,” stated Laredo Mayor Betty Flores. Congressman Cuellar noted, “Government support for Carrizo cane removal is a first step in the right direction towards securing the border. Being from the border, I understand the urgent necessity for increased safety and I am encouraged by the Committee’s recognition of the situation.” Congressman Henry Cuellar is a member of the House Budget and Agriculture committees in the 109th Congress; accessibility to constituents, education, health care and economic development are his priorities.
